tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 31st Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Congressmans, according to our agenda, we will continue talks on the 2021-Year Central Management Budget Law Proposal and the 2019 Central Management Computing Law Proposal. Under the schedule, we'll be negotiating in the seventh round today. The seventh round includes the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, the General Directorate of Forestry, State Water Affairs, the General Directorate of Meteorology, Turkey's Water Institute, the Ministry of Youth and Sports, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the President of the European Union and Turkey's Accreditation Institution budgets and final accounts. 1) Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry 2021 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) Forest General Directorate 2021 Central Management Budget 2) Forest General Directorate 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) State Water Affairs General Directorate 2021 Central Management Budget 2) State Water Affairs General Directorate 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) The General Directorate of Meteorology 2021 Central Management Budget 2) The General Directorate of Meteorology 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkey's Water Institute Central Management Budget for 2021 2) Turkey's Water Institute Final Account for Central Management 2019 1) The Ministry of Youth and Sports 2021 Central Management Budget 2) Youth and Sports Ministry Final Account for Central Management in 2019 1) State Department Central Management Budget for 2021 2) The State Department Final Account for Central Management in 2019 1) The Central Management Budget of 2021, President of the European Union 2) Central Management Final Account for the President of the European Union 2019 1) Turkish Accreditation Agency Central Management Budget for 2021 2) Turkish Accreditation Institution 2019 Central Management Final Account Commission? He's in position. Lawmakers will be promised to conduct the talks on the tour with political party groups and at the request of the 62nd Article of the Interior Charter, which can be used by more than one speaker, and the duration of the talks on behalf of the individual will be five minutes each. Also, when the talks are completed, the question-answer process, the ten-minute question, the ten-minute answer, and the questions will be asked without justification. It's for your information. In the seventh round, I take turns reading the names of political party groups, executive and individuals who took the words: Republican People's Party: Mr. Kamil Okyay Sindır, Mr. Ayhan Barut, Mr. Aydın Özer, Mr. Okan Gaytancıoğlu, Mr. Genghis Gökçel, Mr. Ömer Fethi Gürer, Mr. Aysu Bankoğlu, Mr. Mustafa Adıbeş, Mr. Ahmet Ünal Ceviköz, Mr. Yunus Emre, Mr. Sibel Özdemir. Justice and Development Party: Mr. Yaşar Köppınar, Mr. Bekir Kuğı Erim, Mr. İbrahim Aydın, Mr. Jahan Pektaş, Mr. Selahattin Minsolmaz, Mr. Oğuzhan Kaya, Mr. Nevzat Ceylan, Mr. Rümesa Kadak, Mr. Fehmi Alpay Özal, Mr. Ahmet Kılıç, Mr. Ahmet Berat Çonkar, Mr. İsmail Emrah Karayel, Mr. Vildan Yılmaz Gürel. Mr. Fahrettin Yoshüz, Mr. Mehmet Metanet Çulhaoğlu, Mr. Orhan Çakır, Mr. Hüseyin Örs, Mr. Ahmet Kamil Erozan, Mr. Zeki Hakan Sıdalı. Nationalist Movement Party: Mr. Hasan Kalyoncu, Mr. Mehmet Celal Fendoğlu, Mr. Saffet Sandzaklı, Mr. Olcay Pilot, Mr. Kamil Aydın, Mr. İsmail Özdemir. Peoples' Democratic Party: Mr. Ridvan Turan, Mr. Sait Dede, Mr. Muazzez Orhan Ilk, Mr. Dersim Mountain, Mr. Hüseyin Öşyar Özsoy, Mr. Tulay Hamımoğlu, Mr. Feleknas Uca. Subjects: In his favor, Mr. Rizgin Birlik; in his case, Mr. Gültekin Uysal. Executive: Mr. Bekir Pakdemirli, Mr. Mehmet Muharrem Kırbaşoğlu, Mr. Mevlüt Çavoğlu, Now, the first word is for Mr. Kamil Okyay Kündir. Here you go, Your Honor.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0002par0052	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of our group on the central management budget of 2021. I salute our High Council. Dear lawmakers, I would like to start by questioning the goals and goals and priorities and priorities of the budget for 2021, a law that provides an estimate of the state's revenues and spending within the next fiscal year and allows the executive body to implement those revenues to be collected and expenditures. For example, to eliminate poverty, to maintain income justice, to increase production and employment, to end unemployment, to avoid waste, or at least to achieve certain levels of economic growth, to be among the number of countries in the world, but it seems impossible to talk about the existence of these goals in budget values, beyond the fancy words of the presentations. So, what's in the budget? There's a waste, there's a safe with a trust fund that can be counted with the fingers of one hand, and there's a future in interest lobbyes. The government's GDP target in 2023 was $2 trillion, and its forecast for 2020 seems to have barely reached $690 billion. In the last two years alone, we've been downsized to almost $200 billion, dear friends. The central bank's net reserve has reached minus 57 billion dollars, with the largest gap in our Republic history. The government's total debt was based on 2 trillion liras, and has increased 606 billion liras in the last ten months alone. Our foreign trade deficit has found 45.3 billion dollars in the last 11 months and has increased by almost 100 per cent from last year. The interest payment from the budget during your time in power has totaled $492 billion, dear friends. In the same way, your GDP target for 2023 per person was $25,000 per person, and it turns out he won't even be able to find $8,200 for 2020. On the other hand, the public's debt to banks increased to $239 billion from the beginning of 2020, which is 830 billion in the last year, and since it failed to pay its debt, unfortunately, our nearly 3.5 million citizens have been taken into legal custody by these banks. The unemployment rate 2023 was 5 per cent of your target, today 13.2% according to TİK official figures. According to broadly defined unemployment, 27.3 per cent. One of our nearly 10 million citizens and three of our young ones is unfortunately out of work. This budget, unfortunately, gives the citizens neither hope nor excitement nor positive energy. The 3600 additional indicators you gave to teachers, domestic security personnel, health workers, religious officials remain in the air, EYTESTs are waiting for the rights of 4/B contract officers who are serving nearly 500,000 public services. Nearly 600,000 teachers and hundreds of thousands of engineers, architects waiting for the appointment. Our trades, which you shut down due to the pandemic, shut down contact, leave to hunger, poverty, and loans given to them, are looking for direct support to pay their rent, electricity, water, SGK, and so on. Because 3.8 million COBI loans to banks have reached $865 billion, and nearly 300,000 are being pursued by banks because they can't pay their debts. Again, because of the pandemic, you paid for the partial work grant and free furlough payments by raiding the unemployment insurance fund, which is a non-budget source, and you turned it into a fund that supports the employer. Instead of condemning workers to hunger, you must now give the guarantee of wages above the minimum hunger limit for human life, not from the workers' funds, but from the budget resources. Dear lawmakers, the property of the Turkish people of the land must be used by all. We celebrate the Indian Property Week, or rather Tutum, Investment and Turkish Property Week, for decades, from 1929 to today. Today's power must be used by everyone. He will have misunderstood his word that he wants to sell everything we have that is domestic and national. And by "everyone," we mean citizens of this country, not strangers, of course. You sold everything we had that was local, and the rest you haven't sold yet, you've collected under the name of the asset fund, and you're in a hurry to sell it again. Well, can this 177 billion-dollar asset fund be audited? No. Is he subject to the Court's audit, the Law of Contraction? No. Canal Istanbul lands, Ataköy coast, Antalya Harbor, Tank Palet Factory, Halic, Isanje Park, companies, insulations, banks, stock markets, all sold, sold, sold, sold. At this rate, the Qatars will be celebrating our domestic week soon. Because in this period of power, this week has nothing to do with frugality or investment or domesticity. Dear lawmakers, I'd like to talk to you about the budget of our Ministry of Agriculture. Mr. Secretary, you know very well that agriculture and food are the most strategic, vital, indispensable and sustainable sectors of our country. However, Mr. Secretary, your shortcomings and the wrong decisions and practices you're making are unfortunately causing our agriculture to collapse. Look, Mr. Secretary, I'm going to show you two graphs. I showed them to you in our Plan and Budget Commission. When you came to power, TÜİK data shows that in 2002, our farmland, which was 26 million, 579 thousand hectares, is now reduced to 23 million and 95,000 hectares. From 2002 to 2019, this decline brought down 3 million 484,000 hectares in agricultural areas. Here, the areas we refer to as agricultural areas are the fields of ornamental plants, vegetables and fruits -- including the fields that have been planted -- and that includes the fields of nature. I'd like to share another graph, another fact with you. If we look at what is the state of plant and animal production in foreign trade -- well, it makes it look pretty good on this graph -- in this period from 2002 to 2020, there is a growing balance of foreign trade deficits, even though 2005 was shown a little resistance in 2006. In fact, when we put these two graphs down, you can see very well that we're a net importer, that we're a direct importer, that we're a direct importer, that we're correlation. In 2003-2019, our exports were 77.6 billion dollars, and our imports were $104.6 billion, and we had a $27 billion net foreign trade deficit. We have 5.6 times the import of plant products in your power, our imports in livestock have increased 17 times, and there's nothing we haven't imported, I'm afraid, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Secretary, in an assessment you made on a television channel on December 10th, we cannot have a friend who says that the farmer has earned record income in the last two years -- this past week -- that our farmer's morale is very good now, that he has paid a lot of his debts, that he has renewed his tractor and that I have a bad job in agriculture and animalism. Well, aren't these farmers the farmers of this country, Mr. Secretary? What are they saying? But aren't these farmers the farmers of this country, Minister? They're impounding tractors and cows. Of course, you must have something to say to the victims of the Agriculture Loan Co-operative, which is also impugned in violation of Article 84 of the Law on Enforcement and Bankruption 2004. Honestly, is this really a joke? If this is a joke, let's all laugh together, but it's not a joke. If you actually said it, then either you're talking about farmers from another country, farmers from another country, or someone's wearing pink glasses. (HPP clapping in rows) Aman, be careful, because our country is the biggest danger to the survival of agriculture. They're putting you in the position of Minister. Our farmer's debt to banks and Agriculture Loan Co-ops amounted to 128 billion liras and an average of $61,000 per farmer. About 5 billion pounds of debt, which was not paid in time, has been legally monitored by banks. From this Christmas alone to today, there has been an increase in debt worth more than $18 billion. And it's clear where you're going to support the $22 billion you've given agriculture this year, isn't it, Mr. Secretary? See, you're essentially $211 billion in debt to our farmer because of your lack of support for the 21st Article of the Agricultural Law. We know that the budget for agricultural support in 2021 will be the same as 2020, which is 22 billion dollars. In the last year alone, there has been a 33 per cent increase in foreign currency, while the increase in seeds, fertilizer, medicine, mazotta, electricity prices is between 20 per cent and 50 per cent, while central management is offered an increase in 2020-2021 budget-sized growth rate of 22.8 per cent, while agricultural support remains the same.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0003par0068	Mr. Landing, plus one minute; we'll obey. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0002par0070	Maybe for a greeting... I would also like to say that we find the gas and fertilizer support we expect to increase in the Ministry budget of 2021 is $229 million, the animal support is $558 million, and the support paid for products with our supply deficit is also in need and unacceptable, Mr. Secretary. Dear lawmakers, if they are talking about reform in power, economy and the judiciary, they must first make the problem clear and clear, in a language, and objectively define the current situation of the crisis in the economy and the injustice in the judiciary. Instead of setting up budget sizes, preferences, priorities that will be needed for reforms, he should put a reformary budget in front of the nation, which is prepared to meet the current economy and customs that are ahead of us today. As a matter of fact, if we're talking about a problem for reform in the economy and in the judiciary, it's the same thing as running Article 1 and it has to change. In other words, the biggest reform you're going to do is to resign immediately for a bright, prosperous, peaceful and powerful economy of this country, for a strong state, for the peace and happiness of our citizens, and... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I have one sentence left, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0004par0075	Excuse me, sir. Let me get this straight, sir. In terms of application integrity, plus 1, and a plan has been made for our group of vice presidents in the form of 2 plus 1. If you'll excuse me and...
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0002par0076	Let me finish my sentence.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0004par0077	Thank you, Your Honor. Complete, sir.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0002par0079	...to pave the way for democracy, freedom, integrity, an independent and impartial judicial system and the rule of law. In any case, I wish the budget of 2021 would bring blessings and benefits to our country and our nation. I salute our High Council.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0004par0082	Thank you, Your Honor.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0005par0083	Mr. President, we're just in the beginning, so this is a one-time extension, please. Please, all speakers must obey.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0006par0084	Mr. President, use your free will, you run this place.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0004par0085	Mr. Nightingale, Mr. Nightingale...
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0005par0086	We're not deciding either, so we're asking you if you understand what we're talking about.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0004par0087	Thank you, friends. Here you go, Mr. Gunpowder.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0007par0090	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the budget of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry. I salute you all with my sincerest wishes. I'd like to start by saying that this budget for agriculture and agricultural support is not an acceptable budget. This budget shows the AKP's view of agriculture. The 22 billion-dollar support for agricultural support in this budget remains at the same rate as last year and is the biggest blow to the farmer. While the budgets of all other ministries, especially the president's budgets, and the basic entries used by agricultural producers in the past year have increased by 50 per cent and more, does your conscience agree to the fact that agricultural support is in place? This budget does not solve problems in agriculture, and on the contrary, it causes a fatal blow to agriculture. During your reign, you saw the farmer as a stepchild. For the farmer, the knife is up to the bone. Remember, gentlemen, the farmer also ignores the farmer who ignores him, and in the first election he buries him in the chest, if you know what I mean. [[Applause from CHP rows]] There is a saying, "A plague is better than a thousand counsels." Once again, the whole world understood the importance of agriculture in this plague, but the AKP did not understand the power. Because no support was given to the farmer during this period, no improvements were made. In fact, the last few days, in this great Parliament, there was talk of a bag of laws for the construction of tax and credit debts; there was not only agriculture, there was no farmer, because you don't care about the farmer.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0008par0095	Have mercy, have mercy!
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0007par0096	In the 18-year period of AKP power, you have aged 6 ministers, and in the process, you have made the country a country that is importing, not a country that produces. Mr. Secretary, the European Union, whose budget is 168.7 billion euros, is 35 per cent -- 58.6 billion euros for agriculture, while the United States, 42 billion dollars for support -- while 1.63 per cent of our budget in our country is a disgrace to you and to your power. As you can see from here, power has worked for agriculture, not for farmers, but for a handful of import lobbys. After all, our country has become a clear importer. And when we respond to these errors and criticize them, he didn't think about the Ministry of Agriculture, but sitting there in that chair as Minister of Agriculture, he gives interesting answers to our criticism, interesting answers. For example, we have money that we import. For example, meat prices are not high; rather, they are very cheap. There's been a new one on a TV show recently. Our farmer has a record income in the past two years, and our farmer's morale is in a very good mood right now. So let's see how and how our farmer is doing. If our farmer is in good condition, why are the tractors at his door and the cows in his barn foreclosed and for sale because of the high interest? If our farmer is in good shape, why did 700,000 manufacturers fall out of production during your time in power? By the way, as a footnote, there's no way you're ever going to be able to re-produce a farmer who's been cut off from production. If our farmer is in good shape, how did the farmer get up to $180 billion when he owed 2.5 billion when he came to power? If our farmer is in good condition, why have 2 Thracian-sized plantations been abandoned? Because you didn't support the farmer, you supported imports. Mr. Secretary, the farmer is not well, hear the farmer's cries and cries. Mr. Secretary, you don't understand this business, so step aside and let someone understand. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear lawmakers have been promised 10,551 appointments for agricultural, food, veterinary, water science engineers and technicians during your parliamentary administration in five years, around 2,300 appointments have been made. I'm an agricultural engineer, where about 5,000 agricultural engineers graduate every year...
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0009par0101	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0007par0102	...to all trade groups. You're saying experience in the private sector. You're saying experience in the private sector. Why do you expect the private sector to do what your power doesn't do, what you can't do? Which private sector, what power, what means will these young people enter? These trade groups are clearly waiting to hear from you as to how many people and when the appointment will be made. We've been shouting for years about these young people's problems, about the appointment of these professional groups, about these young people's problems, and we're going to continue to take care of them. Please keep your promise to these young people. There are no workers in this budget, no farmers, no tradesmen, no one. This budget is a Rantist budget, so we call it no. I salute you all with love and respect. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0009par0105	Mr. Aydın Özer... Here you go, Mr. Özer.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0010par0108	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. I wish to inform our farmers and citizens of the floods and floods caused by heavy rains in the districts of İzmir and Antalya yesterday evening. For the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry budget, this administration is not in favor of production or producers in this budget. There is no need. What's his budget when he's not in favor of politics, production and manufacturer? Dear friends, 18 years ago wheat production was 19.5 million tons, 20.5 million tons today; the difference is 1 million tons. Eighteen years ago, the population was 65 million, 83 million today, and the difference is 18 million. So in 18 years, our population has increased by 18 million people, and the wheat production has only increased by 1 million tons. So in 18 years, the government didn't care about the production or the farmer because it's the government's favorite thing to do is import. As known in October, customs duties of 45 per cent of wheat imports were nullified. The government, which put the wheat producer in competition with the world farmer, said imports are needed for exports. The minister pointed out the pasta business, said imported goods went to them. In 2019, however, only 1.4 million tonnes of wheat imported in total 9.8 million tonnes of wheat were pasta wheat. Importing 8.4 million tons of wheat to make flour and export it came to their greater use than buying it from our own manufacturer. I mean, even that horny pandemic wasn't enough to show our government the importance of production. Dear friends, the tomato quota of Russia has been unresolved for three years, almost a snake story. More than 200,000 manufacturers from Antalya, 120,000, produce a total of 13 million tons of tomatoes annually; 9 million tons of this is produced from fields and 4 million tons of coverings from six productions. We're number four in the world, but we -- like Russia -- we sell our tomatoes with quotas, and 20 days ago, 200,000 tons of quotas were filled. The quota has a negative effect on the tomato farmer, the worker, the supplier, the exporter, all of them. It's not only that, but there's a mosaic virus in our going tomatoes. It's another story when it's sent back from Russia. Analysts in Turkish labs show that our tomatoes are clean, that there is no mosaic virus, that it is suitable for exports. Well, then, why isn't Russia told what to do about the analysis of the tomato sent back? You who created the crisis, you who broke the manufacturer, you who didn't think of the consequences, you who said, "What do I care?" You who threw it away, you who couldn't figure it out, you who were always our workers, our farmers who were the victims. The industry needs an explanation, and this snake story has to stop. Dear friends, according to the 2020 Turkish Agricultural View Field Research, 93° of 100 farmers complain that the inputs are expensive; from 100 farmers, 89/u sell the product at a price below expected; 61 of 100 farmers don't make TARSEM; 22 of 100 farmers don't pay or are paid short, he says. Is he happy, our farmer, so he's happy? According to the study, only two out of 100 farmers are very, very pleased with themselves. Dear friends, the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry supports the farmer this year is 22 billion liras the same as last year. It's not really understandable that all the price of pencils with direct impact on the cost is going up, while the amount of support is in place. Clearly, our farmer will be unhappy this year with this government, and even the satisfaction of 2 percent, who are so pleased, will be distressed. Dear friends, our farmer is burdened with debt, he's at a loss. He sells whatever equipment he has in Amasya, and Konya, and Malatiah, and he sells it; it is not enough; it is done, and it is performed to the villagers' cows. The farmer who sees me in Antalya complains of his debt first, saying: "The loan of the Trade Loan Cooperates to the villagers is higher than the interest of the Central Bank. When the farmer can't pay, the debt goes up because of high interest, and then the bailiffs hang on his door. How's a farmer with no tools to harvest his crops? This practice must be abandoned immediately; executions must be stopped, tools, tractors, and cows must be returned to the farmer. All the farmer's debts must be restructured and postponed without interest. Private consumption taxes must be removed in seed, agricultural medicine, mazotta, fertilizer, and all agricultural equipment. In fact, these pens should be supported by subsidies to 50 percent. You have to make room for the farmer in your mind that gives the big corporations the world's forgiveness, repatriation, immunity. You won't find peace in the small amount of money you've given production under state support. Let not God bring down any man from his place of worship, nor let him out of his guile. We don't want anyone to perform. No manufacturer wants to lose their most important material through execution.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0011par0118	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0010par0119	Thank you. The farmer is afraid of debt, but he can no longer live without debt. You're the cause of all this. Mr. Secretary, would you also give a statement to other engineering and trade groups, especially veterinary physicians, agriculture, food, water products and forest engineers, who are looking forward to receiving with great hope? Which units, how many will you take? Thank you very much. I salute the General Assembly. I wish you the best of our budget.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0012par0126	Thank you, Mr. Ozer. Mr. Okan Gaytancioğlu. Here you go, Mr. Gaytancioğlu.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0013par0130	Mr. President, we're discussing the budget of a ministry that would not have known the farmer had been shut down. (CHP) Indeed, the ministry and the farmer are completely cut off. Look, the TV shows them, these tractors; they're all over Turkey. Here's a cow, too, nerds. You're even impounding the cows. Do you know where the Minister learns these things? It's from TV. If he is lying, he turns on the TV, looks at the television, calls to the governor, and says: "Are these photographs true? " Yeah, he's finding out it's true. But constitutionally, production tools are not foreclosed. A farmer doesn't have a tractor on him, he's got a commercial car, he's taken to the industry, he's got his engine out, he's impounded in the industry. Yeah, what kind of app is that? How will the farmer produce it? Don't you know anything about the farmer's condition? Yeah, that's what our farmer really is. The county manager, as I said -- he approves of this incident, and the minister and his staff are trying to direct Turkey's agriculture in this way. So this way, look, tractors are installed on tractors, loaded. Yeah, it's got to be in the field; it's got wheat crops, it's got to be plowed. This is the first time Turkey has experienced such practice. It's the first time our Republic of the Republic of the Republic has seen such practice in the time of the Ministry. We've been here for the past few weeks, working all morning, building up 500 billion dollars in debt, no farmers in it. Ha, a motion was made at one point, they said: .... the farmers' debt is being structured.... even the Parliament has shown on TV -- I've looked -- three times, the loans are being structured.... the AKP MPs have issued statements, even national channels, but we know it isn't, and we know it isn't. I mean, you're out of government seriousness, you've fooled the farmer. And the message from this morning, look, it's new, it's 9:59, so what does it say an hour and a half ago? They wrote to the farmer, and I'll give it to the minister later: pay your debt to the Economic Loan Cooperates immediately, or we'll begin with your co-signers who provided the collection of the debt. He says he'll also report and warn you that you'll be able to stand legal fees. Oh, now, in the press -- we're led by a single-man regime -- the only man who said: "We've learned about what happened to the farmer, more or less -- we hope you'll only make these tractors easier for those who were impounded, but it's not clear either. Yeah, the farmer's debt is 180 billion, the configuration you're going to bring is 5 billion. The farmer can't go to the field anymore; you've given the fertilizer a 50% increase, you've given the masoth a 30% increase. Our farmer uses the most expensive electricity in the world, our farmer uses the most expensive diesel. You're still after imports, import lobbying runs you. You buy expensive wheat from the world, you buy barley, you buy corn, and as for the farmer, you get last year's support budget. I've never seen anything like it. What do you mean, friends, you're giving the farmer the same money as last year? Didn't the electricity go up, the mazota didn't go up, the fertilizer didn't go up? It's the least you can do to increase inflation. The funding budget was 22 billion last year, 22 billion again. Believe me, I haven't seen it, and there's no application in the history of the Republic. The world supports agriculture, food becomes very important, there are water crises, there are famines; we cut from agriculture's budget. But as for those of you who are close to you, you erase their debt, you construct it; and as for the farmer, you draw their tractors. Agriculture Loan Cooperatives is an institutional institution, the most beautiful institution. When we get here, believe me, we're going to run those cooperatives, their troops, their agricultural sales co-ops and their troops, their Agricultural Loan Co-operatives, the Land Supply Office. They're going to do what they're really doing, so they're not going to use those institutions the way you use them.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0014par0137	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0013par0138	Let's not forget, the day before the referendum, your General Manager of Agriculture Loan texted everyone -- three years before that -- asked for a vote, the General Manager of Agriculture Loan. So you make these institutions close to you, you make them party states with one man's regime; you use them, and they try to live off the farmer's interest. This is all terribly wrong. He's number 1 in Agriculture Loan Cooperatives. Do you know who his partner is? Mustafa Kemal Ataturk. (HPP) No. 1 of the Tekir Farm in Mersin. He's his partner, he hasn't phoned, he hasn't cabled, so make me a partner. He's petitioned the Bank of Agriculture, and I want to be a partner in this co-op. That farmer is my master, the peasant is my master, and I want to set an example because a country that doesn't produce is someone else's toy, my friends. You try to solve everything by import, 50 million acres of land that haven't been planted in Turkey remain empty. You're trying to import everything, agriculture engineers, water products engineers, veterinary engineers, food engineers out of work, e, our farmer's foreclosed; that's not a country, friends. Thank you, I'm paying my respects.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0014par0141	Mr. Genghis Gökçel... Here you go, Mr. Gökcal.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0015par0144	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. In 18 years, our number of farmers has dropped from 7 million 458,000 to 5 million 289,000. How did the AKP do that? The farmer has not given the farmers his due in the law; he is now owed 176 billion liras from the AKP. The AKP is bringing in imported agricultural products from abroad so that our farmer can't produce them, and we have money to import, says our brother. Then why is the Turkish farmer making it? [[Applause from CHP rows]] During the AKP, the entire land of agriculture was mortgaged. You impounded the farmer's tractor, confiscated even our farmer's livestock. I think there's only one point: the AKP hates the farmer, hates the Turkish farmer, ignores the farmer.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0016par0149	Oh, come on!
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0015par0150	But don't worry about my Turkish farmer, my Turkish peasant; he had a previous owner, he has a future Republican People's Party. [[Applause from CHP rows]] There's a sense in the AKP that the farmer of foreign countries will get rich, the import barons will have pockets, the farmer's mother will cry. This is your understanding. Guys, food inflation can't hide anymore. It's not the farmer's fault. The product, which cannot be sold for a penny in the field, is sold in the market chains along with the farmer's future. You're selling the farmer's future. You've made the farmer a toy of the market, no state to protect the farmer, no corporations to protect him, you've sold out, you've sold out, you've sold out, you've sold out, you've sold out, you've sold out, you've sold out. My friends said the same thing as last year, but it's not like that. Thanks to your national economic administration, your support for agriculture this year has dropped by $1 billion, Mr. Secretary, do you consider the difference in currency? (Applause) You raised the budget by 27 percent, why didn't you increase agricultural support at the same rate? That means you're going to slit the farmer's throat again. I'm sorry to say, farmer, but you'll be crushed again. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Now I'm asking you, because your ally wants you to, you're taking down VAT in the games of chance, and what was your motive? You didn't get the $90 million that was supposed to be paid, you deleted it, why? Oh, you might say that our government's budgets are appropriate. Then why don't you make up the farmer's debt? Why don't you erase their interest? If you have any conscience, Mr. Secretary, you will do so immediately. Come on, let's get rid of the gas that the farmer used, let's go! On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Mr. Group Vice President is here, and Mr. President has promised our farmers... Your tiny little partner, the chairman of the Great Unity Party, said this on the television show where he came out, that's the constructive opposition, he says, remove the AVTV. So we're making constructive opposition, so let's get rid of the OTV in the diesel. Let's go! [[Applause from CHP rows]] Prior to 2008, farmers paid a premium for 15 days in agriculture, raised it up to 30 days; in 2008, farmers paid 110 lira a month; in 2008, they pay $110 a month; now 913 lira in agriculture pays BUG-KUR, 913 lira. Is that Reva?
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0017par0160	We hear you, we hear you.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0015par0161	Now, I don't know if you're ashamed of what we're saying, but there's no seed left in the country; we import seeds with dollars, we import animals with dollars, we import feed with dollars, we import fertilizers with dollars. Look, there's a lot to talk about, but...
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0018par0163	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0015par0164	Mr. President, there are three photographs here, Mr. Secretary, please. This is your work, you banned the export of lemon, the lemon came into this form last year. We lost the market, and now the lemon exporter is having trouble selling the product. Are you ashamed of that? [[Applause from CHP rows]] Mr. Bulent Turan, these are images of your Chanakkale farmers from your hometown. This is from my hometown of Mersin. My manufacturer is running to the plow and trying to produce it instead of the animal. So, as one of those manufacturers, all these conversations that I've had so far, we're here to take care of these people. [[From the CHP rows, they applaud the sound of the voice of Bravo (Bravo).]] [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] But don't worry, my peasant, my farmer, we'll produce together in the rule of the Republican People's Party to be built, we'll divide it rightfully. I salute you all.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0019par0172	Mr. Omar Fethi Gürer, come in.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0020par0174	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, Mr. Secretary, because of the wrong agricultural policies, you've finished the farmer, the feeder, the manufacturer. It is not enough, but you persecute; you seize his field, his tractor, and his cow; and you burn and watch him, because of his debt to the bank. Immediately transfer the Agricultural Credit Co-operatives and bank loans far away, delete their interest, stop their execution. (HPP) Lower electricity prices for medicine, fertilizer, seed, bait, diesel and irrigation water. Give up the idea of making an importer and a foreign farmer rich. There is a threat of drought in 2021; let TARSIM take care of the farmer for the risk of drought and insure him against the loss of goods and make sure he stays with the farmer today. Reproduction 700,000 manufacturers who have left farming with 3.5 million hectares out of agriculture. Give me backup on time. The manufacturer doesn't win because it produces, the consumer buys expensive products. The free market economy operates as a free-robbery economy. Look, Mr. Secretary, the bean manufacturer didn't do any harm this year, but when this product is sold to the merchant at 7-8 lira -- I'll put $1 on the packaging, shipping, labor, I'll put $1 on the trader's profit, $1 on the market profit -- it's sold at $1.50 in the market. No conscience? You're robbing the consumer, Mr. Secretary. Check it out, chickpeas. The noodle maker didn't make any money this year. It's $13.80 from a no-sell that can't be sold for $4.5. That's how you rob the consumer, Mr. Secretary. Look, you got up, you imported 16,000 tons of chickpeas, you imported 17,000 tons of beans. One of the best growing products in Asia Minor was lentils. You gave the seed of this lentil to Canada. You import 375,000 tons of lentils from Canada this year, and it's now going from $15.80 to consumers, Mr. Secretary. My area of potatoes costs $1.00. The farmer couldn't sell the potato that cost a dollar, so he put it in storage. If he can't sell in February, March, this potato will rot, but you got up this year; in May, you allowed Egyptian imports from Egypt without an ambassador. Get the product from the potato farmer's warehouse into the Earth crop office so the farmer's product doesn't rot, Mr. Secretary. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Mr. Secretary, you got up this year; you gave $1,650 to a wheat farmer on a bread stand, you gave him $1,800 in pasta. The harvest's over, you're up; you've brought $2,450 imported pasta wheat, and you've imported wheat from $1,800. And then you sell the wheat that you imported from $2.450, at $1.950, and then you say, "On average, 20 million tons of wheat grows in Turkey." You also import 10 million tons of wheat, we say, we sell the wheat that we import abroad. Isn't it better if our own farmer grows it, Mr. Secretary? This year, the tomato farmer got hurt. For 70 cents, he couldn't sell his tomato for 40 cents. Ten kilos of tomatoes make one kilo of sauce. At the moment, the sauce weighs 10 liras per kilo. You're not protecting the farmer, you're not protecting the consumer, you're just protecting the runners, you're protecting the importers, Mr. Secretary. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Mr. Secretary, you played with the beet farmer this year. In 2018, you bought the beets for $235, and in 2019, when you paid $300 for the beet, you got up; you got the President to explain it to you. Who announced the beet base price in 2020, Mr. Secretary? Because you're embarrassed, when you explained the price of beets at $336 a ton, the President couldn't make a statement, nor could you. ENGLISH has raised a price of 36 cents per kilo. A conscience, Mr. Secretary, a conscience! You finish the farmer of this country, you rob the manufacturer. You don't solve the problems of the farmer, the worker, the tradesman, the pensioner, the disabled. We have given this country for eighteen years. Let go, you cannot do it. You can't solve the problems of the manufacturer of this country. Mr. Secretary, look, you couldn't solve the water problems, you couldn't finish the GAP, you couldn't complete the collection.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0021par0186	Here you go, Mr. Gürer.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0020par0187	If you give a congressman a five-minute speech about a two-hour ministry budget, that's how fast we're gonna have to talk.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0022par0189	Did you say that to Engin Altay?
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0023par0190	It's from Engin Bey. It's from Engin Bey.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0020par0191	Minister, look, agriculture is strategic. If your policy on imports continues in the next process, you may not find products to import. Every country is protecting itself, so come, let's get our unplanted land planted, give our producers support on time, let's get them to produce. You've ruined the country in livestock, you're buying the meat at $38, you're letting the meat at the grocery store be sold at $100 a piece. You've been holding milk prices steady for a year. The raw milk producer gave him his milk at $2.30, and you got up, and for $2.80, he's got a 65 percent increase in food, and how's he gonna stand it, Mr. Secretary? I salute the High Council. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Mr. Secretary, here are the receipts for the prices.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0024par0196	Mr. Aysu Bankoglu... Here you go, Mr. Bankoglu.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0025par0199	Mr. President, dear MPs, Mr. Secretary, welcome. Today, I'm going to talk to you about the true lives and expectations of young people in the face of the 18-year-old tales of the AKP. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Now, I looked at your party's election statement in 2018. Story number one: we will reduce unemployment permanently. You said, "You said, page 91." What about the truth? There's an unemployed number. Even according to your questionable data, there are over 10 million unemployed. According to TÜİK (TÜİK), one of the four college graduates is unemployed. Here, the problem with beka is unemployed young people, young people in this country are unemployed, dear friends. But you're handing out billions of your citizens to your supporters, and you're doing it persistently and openly; you're erasing billions of tax debts, you don't know the limit at all, you're paying Somalia's IMF debt, you're on 8 flights to Cyprus, and I'm not even getting the guarantees. Now, tens of thousands of young people lost their jobs in the pandemic, and you all know that there are a lot of young people who don't benefit from the unemployment fund because they work without insurance. You know, but your government continues to pretend to be dead at times like this, Mr. Secretary. I'd appreciate it if you'd listen.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0026par0204	He's listening, he's listening.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0025par0205	During the Pandemic period, you didn't even pay the young people one time for nothing. A little conscience, I'd say. I don't say funny things, I don't know why you're laughing. Let me come to your second tale, and we will provide shelter and scholarships for every young person who applied. What about the truth? Young people have been searching for housing for months, and those who have the means are pulling strings. There are more than 3 million young people who can't pay their debts, dear friends, and 300 grand of them, because of you, there are young people who have turned a new leaf in their lives, but the AKP sends 5 million dollars to Tunisia, showing their young how to perform. Again, you've given the Qatar publisher 703 quadrillion discounts with old money. Now, can you tell me how many young people could be given scholarships with this money, how many young people could be given jobs, and how many young people would be paid off in KYK debt, dear friends? A little conscience, I'd say. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Third story, the promise of a happy youth. What about the truth? Young people who are concerned about the future and living, of course, are unhappy and desperate. You know who's the most precious friend? Young people born and raised in your time are unhappy. (HPP) In your opinion, of course, there's no rule that every college graduate will get a job, but I'd like to remind you of the PhD student who had to sell seeds in Istanbul, the college students who had to work in the industry, the teachers who went to the package service. In fact, fairy tales always end happily, but in your stories, unfortunately, that's not possible. Mr. Secretary, I wish we hadn't talked about this and upset you, but a young man has to work construction because he can't pay his tuition, you know? You know, there are young people who commit suicide because they can't find a job and they can't bear to be more of a burden on their family? Young people's dreams were to go abroad to study, to travel abroad, and now there's running away without looking back, do you really think about the reasons for that? Look, what did the Z generation tell you? They told you not to vote! Have you considered the cause of this reaction? You are responsible for the future of this country; why can't millions of young people be unemployed, unhappy, and in debt, go to the President and ask him for a solution? If you're asking him, why can't it be solved? Or are you afraid that I should resign from Instagram, or TikTok? Don't 20 million teenagers worth a few contractors to you? Look, as one of the youngest lawmakers in this Parliament, I'm going to tell you what 20 million young people are saying right now. What does about 20 million young people say? We want our ideas and ideas to be taken seriously first.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0027par0213	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0025par0214	We want to be respected, to be considered concerned. We want a free life. We don't want refunds. We want scholarships for students. We want the ministry to spend its resources not on concrete, but on young people who are entrusted with the land by our Ancestors. (HPP) We don't want a rich supporter's millions of dollars' worth of tax debt, we want the KYK debt wiped out. We don't want to worry about the dorm when we get into college. We don't want to burden anyone, we demand economic freedom. We do not want to think of anyone who might have had to pull strings to get a job. We expect equal treatment, and we want to be remembered for the number of discoveries we've made, not the number of increases in brain migration. We want to know that when we tweet or criticize a government elder, we will not be taken into custody, dear friends. But you know what we want most, and what do we shout? We want justice, dear friends, we want justice.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0027par0217	Complete.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0025par0218	I've counted them, but I know you won't do any of them, because you're afraid of us young people because we don't trust you, we don't believe you, and you can't fool us easily, but don't worry, you're a passenger in the first election, and you'll never forget your departure. [[Applause from CHP rows]] My dear young friends, I've drawn a hopeless picture, but to lose hope and be thrown into the darkness. Remember, it's a resistance under the same sky. You've got real patience, we're the future. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Thank you. Mr. Secretary, get well soon, I hope you're in better health. I didn't bring you an Oscar this year because you still have Oscar for unemployment and unhappiness. President, thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0028par0226	How many MPs are there in the age average CHP? Youngest Engin Altay
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0029par0228	Mr. Mustafa Adil...
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0030par0230	My dear friends, according to our legislation, the Turkish Football Federation is autonomous and other federations are independent. General councils are the top board of the federations. However, on November 5th, the Deputy Director General of Sports is sent to a general sector and the sports general boards are postponed, and the expired presidents and administrations receive a deadline extension. In fact, one person ignores the general boards by instruction. It's proof that you're trying to bring one manpower into the sport. A draft of the sports club law was sent to the Association of Clubs and sports clubs. This 66 article draft is a complete horror. What's in this draft? The autonomy of the Turkish Football Federation is being terminated, its assets and powers are being seized, the fraud and incentives are being legalized, parallel federations are coming. See, it's said in Article 9: "One or more of the sports clubs operating in the sports club can join another sports club as a whole." You didn't hear wrong, you're buying a mid-season rival team. So we're missing a team from the league. Well, where do you get that intelligence? Article 13, the law of parallel federation: 15 clubs come together to form a separate roof as the federation continues, creating a separate federation. Championships, clusters, millions of fans, betting companies, what they're going to be. What he says is that by combining resources and powers, you can clearly do a song. Are you out of your mind? These federations are officially parallel federations that are planned to be established with this material. The minister is granted unlimited powers, and Butcheroglu is almost hanging. The Minister can cancel the Federation General Assembly, depose the Federation. The Board of Investigations appoints the Federation Secretary General and the county representatives; they can seize the football Federation's assets. Look, there's 48 of them, the Sports Evaluation and Development Board -- there's seven people on this board, seven miracle people -- the rules are different, the rules of success can understand everything, the measurements can measure the success of 65 federations, but notice that they don't have to be sportsmen, so they could be grocery stores, butchers, seven miracle people. In sports, slavery is now a legal basis for this fix, for incentives, for favours. If you can do that, they will plant your statue, but I assure you, not to remember it well, but to come and curse you in the morning and evening. The clubs can't make a sound in this draft. Well, the Turkish Football Federation is officially being slaughtered, all its powers, its autonomy, its assets are being seized, but the Turkish Football Federation is being silenced, why? Turkish Football Federation Board of Directors for Legal Affairs Mehmet Baykan is also the Sports Ministry's Sports General Manager; two watermelons are on one seat, and on both sides. In fact, the Turkish Football Federation has been conquered from the inside, as far as its location is concerned. Because Mr. Erdogan -- valued AK PARTY MPs, relax, my words are this way -- and you don't know about this draft. So all business is being turned after Erdogan, and Mr. Erdogan is doomed to be deceived again at the end of this process. In January 2019, you were able to construct and transfer money from sports clubs through public banks. If he went to clubs, I wouldn't burn. You used clubs to transfer money through active bank and naval bank public banks. Now, how are you going to reassess these transactions without asking for collateral? There is decay in many institutions of the state, so much in sports, so much in favor of men, so much intelligent work, so much in practice against the law. I'm asking you right here, as of today, are there any federal executives under judicial and administrative arrests, how do they continue their duties? Were the awards returned from athletes who had achieved success in national and international competitions after they were known to be doped? Has there been an investigation into the relevant Federation president? Because I have these, and I'm asking you to. Illegal bet is one of the biggest problems in this country. Governments and clubs are losing enormous revenue. There's also information that this unregistered money is the source of drugs and terrorism. Last time I told you, Gold Enterprises was one of the sources of the terrorist organization. There are also allegations from this off-the-book bet that........ is being fed. Every institution has been released. For example, I wonder, has anyone ever been expelled from the Department of Sports Toto? Why don't you do it? For example, why don't you make a deposit change and make it more attractive and direct people from illegal bet to legal bet? For example, there are six agencies, why don't you give me more licenses?
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0031par0238	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0030par0239	Mr. Secretary, you've been in and out of this business for eight years, first the Director of Sports Toto, then the Minister. I can think of two choices: either there's allies in this, there's lots of people being touched, you don't make a sound, or you don't do it well. I can't think of any other option, because if asked, it would be solved overnight. I'm not talking about less money, I'm talking about 100-150 billion a year and $1 trillion in government money in 16 years. Look, my dear AK PARTY friends, my brother Aysu just told me about a resignation. If Mr. Erdogan knows who's on this side, I assure you, he won't need to resign, he won't be able to stay on this mission for a minute. (Applause from CHP) The Court report says that Sports Toto Agency President spends $6 billion in advertising revenues, some of which are educational institutions. So you're advertising children and young people for games of chance, despite Article 58 of our Constitution? You'd better keep your hands off the side of sports, and don't use the only place where people can relax and find peace of mind to play the game of finance and favor. I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0032par0243	Mr. Ahmet Ünal Riotist... Here you go, Mr. Quickie.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0033par0246	Mr. President, dear MPs, I have made a commitment to the State Department budget, and I hereby salute the High Council and the Ministers. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'd like to start by referring to a technical problem we've seen in the budget proposal. We do not find it right that the funds for the budgets of the institutions should be transferred to private accounts or used as private accounts by the additional provisions placed on the Central Management Budget Law Proposal (E) table. Such use and transfers are in violation of the Constitution's Article 161. Many institutions and administrations, such funds, such as the State Department, are being put into their budgets, and I'd like to stress that first. As I look at the State Department's budget, I find that the ministry has a unit to conduct work on its service grounds and its objectives to fight propaganda and actions against Turkey, to inform the international community: Research and Security Affairs General Directorate. This General Directorship is working to ensure that the fight mentioned will continue in academic, political, diplomatic, cultural and legal areas. At the same time, he's struggling with alleged genocide claims, but his budget is lower than it was in 2019. Last year, we pointed out that in 2019, the budget, which had 11.22 million Turkish liras, was reduced to 5.9 million Turkish liras for 2020. When we pointed out this issue last year, it was set as 7.14 million Turkish liras for 2021, but it's still 64 percent of the budget in 2019. What's the reason why this General Directorate budget is less than 2019 when it's obviously not working with money poured into lobby companies and over the past few years there's been dozens of decisions against our country? The threats and challenges against our country ended in 2019, but we don't know? If threats have come to an end, why do outside forces play games as they are stuck in domestic politics? The government also has a habit other than this excuse for external forces: to make incredible accusations and slander by framing people and opposition when we say that when it comes to our country's security and interests in foreign policy, relations with countries in the region need to be corrected. For example, since the first crisis in which diplomatic relations with Egypt, Israel and Syria were needed to be levelled against the maximumist thesis we face in the Eastern Mediterranean, we do our warnings. Had power corrected these relations in time, we would not have had an Eastern Mediterranean Gas Forum excluding Turkey, even if it were limited by the European Union. Dear lawmakers have completely forgotten our foreign policy priorities, given up the fight for our country's reputation, from dealing with power, opposition, from acting as a response to internal politics. This is also evident from the slander of the secondary press when planning, as it shows, how do I compress the opposition, as it shows when research and security are not important? It's only based on reports of slander produced by the various media, and unfortunately, such lies and slanders are reflected under the roof of the High Assembly. I've got a lot of samples, but I'm gonna say the most impressive one in recent years. I referred to a report in the Plan and Budget Commission and explained to the Commission why I referred to this report. The report in question is a report from SETA. A think tank the government loves, a think tank where a minister is a guest every week. Dear MPs, this is now not binding on the report, the government and the power of a think tank. But if the President's Security and Foreign Policy Board member and the General Co-ordinator of SETA is writing a precept in this report, then of course that report will be binding. It says: "The author of the report provides data on Turkey's local ally in Syria, the Syrian National Army, and Turkey introduces the Syrian National Army and its troops to the public. Although different studies of the Syrian National Army have been found in Turkish literature, this report is the first in its field to provide concrete figures and data. The content of the report is very severe, and I'll tell you this: there are very serious factors in the report that threaten the reputation and security of our country. Now, just because I've said this, I'll leave it to you once again to the appreciation of you and our fellow citizens watching us on the screen, if the press will report without looking at the reference points, without looking at whose report it is. The report is based on a survey of 1.551 warriors of Syrian national army; from 22 November-3 December 2019 to 12 February 2020, the military warriors and Tel Abyad Suluk show the results of the survey conducted by two separate expeditions at Şanlıurfa, in Syria, Azez in Syria, Al-Rai, Afrin, Cinderes and Sheikhed, Gaziantep, Gaziantep, Kilis, Shanliurfa. The report also considers the age of warriors, war experiences, ethnic origins, joining the army, financial income, political perspectives. Where do these warriors get paid? Were we able to discuss the budget under the roof of our High Council? If we could speak, who would say that 90 percent of the Syrian National Army fighters in the report would join the central Syrian army if there was a political transformation? He brought a report. When it is understood that these issues will harm Turkey, the report is removed from the SETA website as if it had never been published. There's no way to cover and cover up the facts we're talking about, Mr. Lawmakers. (CHEERING) Has the Tank Palette Factory been sold to the Qatar army? Didn't the official newspaper write that the process was a privatisation? Can't you see how much damage has been done to the Turkish Armed Forces and the security of our country? We say it, you lie in ignorance. It's not enough, and with these elements, you insist on bringing our country's eyeballs, our Armed Forces, side by side. And when your own think tank reports it in a solid language, you turn around and blame us. You claim we're the ones who made the statements in the report. The truth hurts, Congressman. (CHEERING) These facts had to be taken care of before they came out. Now that he has taken the horse, he has passed and some are still enjoying the boat.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0034par0252	Do you know where he went? You're objecting yourself.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0033par0253	Do you see how the Free Syrian Army, under its new name, has damaged our country, lawmakers? It's our duty to say so. Let this conversation be a note to history.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0034par0254	Dispute, and do not slander. You slandered the state of the Republic of Turkey, slandered.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0033par0255	But let me stress one thing that the nation will never forgive: For those who have shamelessly compared these groups to Kuvaimilli will have the two hands of martyrs and veterans on their side in the afterlife. In 2018, an agreement was signed with Russia. We said this agreement contained obligations that Turkey could not handle, and we could not. During 2019, Russian officials said that Turkey had not fulfilled its obligations with the Soci Covenant. We said things weren't going well, we said the threat of close contact with the Syrian army was increasing, so we decided to move our observation points to the north of M4 and M5 highways, we said Mehmetchik's safety, we couldn't get him to listen. Finally, at the beginning of this year, on 28 February, we gave 34 martyrs in Idlib. And those martyrs will have their hands on those who are responsible in the Hereafter. Do you know why? Because now our observation points are being drawn north of M4 and M5, without making any noise, and under the pressure of Russia. If this had been done in time, 34 Mehmet-chik like a lion would be alive now. Why is the content of the agreement on joint observation points signed with Russia hidden in Azerbaijan? With all the details written out in the ceasefire agreement between Armenia and Azerbaijan, why is this agreement not explained for Turkey's purposes and how many personnel it will serve at observation points?
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0035par0256	Did you have Karabul Azerbaijan?
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0033par0257	You hide these things from our people. It's obvious you don't have any respect for people, but why hide it from Azerbaijan?
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0035par0258	Did you have Karabul Azerbaijan?
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0036par0259	Biden is the one who seeks help...
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0033par0260	Dear lawmakers, unless we listen to what we say, Turkey is prevented from following a sovereign foreign policy. By following a balanced policy with major countries, only progress can be achieved as much as they and their families allow. Our country's reputation is being undermined and a heavy mortgage is being put on our future by decisions that have not been made rationally. How do you think our children and grandchildren will breathe in Turkey?
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0036par0261	You expect democracy from Biden.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0033par0262	The foreign policy of power, which has been reduced to one man's diplomacy, has been on the wrong ground since the Ottoman Empire. It's not just the budget that's going to fix this floor and make our country a re-respected country, of course, but the budget is the most important part of it.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0036par0263	Why don't you explain to him that you expect democracy from Biden?
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0033par0264	Look at this point where we're at the end of the year 2020. And the house of Solomon the Shah of the land of the land of the saints, and the arks of the estuaries, and the tanker pallet factory, is sold. (CHP cheers) My hand is greater than all this sheraite, and those in power within the country are in a state of ignorance and confusion.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0037par0266	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0033par0267	They express their personal interests with the political ambitions of the muslims.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0038par0268	You're a miserable man.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0033par0269	People are devastated and exhausted in debacle, but who cares?
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0038par0270	You're a miserable man.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0033par0271	We're at a point where Turkey is a country where sanctions are spoken for.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0038par0272	You're a man who's been hostile to Turkey.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0039par0273	Please, dear friends...
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0033par0274	Look at the situation we've been reduced to, where we're thankful not to be subjected to sanctions, but to the lightness of sanctions.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0038par0275	He's an American. Manda, manda, manda.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0033par0276	But don't even worry about it. Our duty as Republican People's Party is to save our country's will, future and republic.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0038par0278	For the party of Ataturk, this is a lie, a Zul.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0040par0279	Listen, listen!
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0041par0280	Does it look good on Ataturk's party? Is this Ataturk's party?
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0038par0281	He's an American.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0042par0282	We pledge as the Republican People's Party, a respected foreign policy, a trusted partner, believable and obeyed, as an international actor, we will make Turkey a rising star in the eyes of the world again. Say hello to Turkey, not to investments, but to a country called participation.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0041par0284	It does not suit the party of Ataturk.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0043par0285	You should've said "Karaba" was good.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0044par0286	Sir, the Secretary of State will have answers about that in a moment.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0045par0287	Here you go, Mr. Yunus Emre.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0046par0289	He is a mandatory representative on the paw of Ataturk, who rejects the buffalo. Manda!
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0047par0290	You'll find out if you listen, but where!
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0046par0291	You're a manda man, and you're an American?
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0047par0293	No head, no head, no mind. You're out of your mind.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0046par0294	Are you an American? Mandaers!
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0047par0295	Yeah, just listen and listen and learn.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0046par0296	Shame on you.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0048par0297	What if he had once congratulated Karaböp?
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0049par0298	He's talking about East Turkistan. There's East Turkistan, and there's...
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0050par0299	Appreciate it, appreciate it.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0051par0300	Congressmans, please... Our disciple is on the stand, so please obey. Here you go, Mr. Emre.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0052par0303	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, high-value MPs, foreign policy is at the top of the most open areas of Turkey's management crisis. In that respect, we'll vote against the State Department budget. I don't think you have the right to ask the House for a budget in the face of these extensive failures, and I'll explain this for reasons: Dear friends, look, our country faces a pressure policy by bringing in threats of sanctions in Eastern Mediterranean, Aegean, Cyprus. Unfortunately, an arm-bending policy is being implemented against Turkey, so to speak. Friends, our Turkey is right in these cases. Look, we've been saying this for years. A pressure policy on Meis Island, 7 square kilometers of Meis Island, which defines 40,000 square miles of naval jurisdiction and eliminates a very fundamental principle of international law, the principle of rights, is put ahead of Turkey. But, dear friends, don't come to these platforms and tell us that Turkey is right, we know that. The point is, can you get this right into the international community?
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0053par0307	We do.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0052par0308	How can you come here and ask this council for a budget before you can admit it? [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear friends, look, Syria is our most serious issue. It's been ten years, ten years. Syria has no political solution. It's been ten years, millions of Syrian Turkeys are not going back. Syria's territorial integrity is still on the table as a serious matter. Which one of these have you figured out that you want a budget from this House? The armies of Egypt, Greece, South Cypriot armies display biceps against Turkey by adding France to their exercises and the United Arab Emirates. Dear friends, what else have you paid for this other than to talk about it?
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0054par0312	We're in Syria, we're in Libya.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0052par0313	Friends, look, an agreement was signed with the European Union in 2016. As Turkey, we have millions of Syrians in our country. None of the charges against Turkey have been met in response to this agreement. Guys, what happened to visa liberalization, for God's sake? Have our citizens opened the gates to Europe without visas, and you want a budget from the House? Friends, progress with the European Union is not progressing in the process of European integration. Membership in the European Union has become a dream. Did you move Turkey to join the European Union, and you want a budget? You make political appointments, you throw out your unemployed old friends as ambassadors.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0055par0316	Bribery...
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0052par0317	Friends, you've appointed an ambassador to someone named after a corrupter. This gentleman's wife shared a message with his wife on social media before she could post it. He said: "There is much to say, but once I say it, the earth will move. You have appointed an ambassador to make sure that the earth does not move. Woe to you!
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0056par0319	Shame on you.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0052par0320	You're appointing an economist as ambassador to the OECD. Yeah, well, no one you've assigned has an international broadcast, folks. I'm not upset, you're sending an ambassador to OECD to an economist who doesn't have an international broadcast. Is the economist finished in Turkey, for God's sake? Is the economist finished in Turkey? What are you trying to accomplish by bringing so many of your own followers, people with no driver's licenses, no merits, to government duties? In the hands of these unemployable, unlicensed staff, our foreign policy is wall-to-wall. You guys want a budget, even though you've been looking for a driver's license and a license? In 2004, on 24 April 2004, the Greeks rejected the Annan Plan with a referendum. If it weren't for this decision, if it weren't for the Greek referendum, we wouldn't have been in the Mediterranean, we wouldn't have been in Cyprus today, my friends. There is no more insult to the late Denktas. Did you go to Denktas' grave and ask for forgiveness? Did you accept his health and ask for a budget from this House?
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0057par0323	Tell me about Maraş.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0058par0324	Don't forget Maras, Maras.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0052par0325	We talked a lot about Azerbaijan. On October 10, 2009, you signed those protocols under their supervision, under the eyes of the great states in Zurich as the EC PARTI, and signed those protocols and brought those protocols to this Parliament, and on January 12, 2010, the Supreme Court of Armenia cancelled those protocols. If the Supreme Court of Armenia hadn't cancelled them, you would have brought those protocols here. You didn't put the Azerbaijan flag in the stadium in the national match. That's what we told you at the time. Don't do it. That's what Azerbaijan said, and that's what the CHP said. We said, "Turn away from this mistake." We waited for you to return.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0057par0326	Karabağ, did you have Azerbaijan?
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0052par0327	Unfortunately, the Constitutional Court of Armenia saved our entire Caucasus policy, my friends.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0057par0328	Congratulations, congratulations.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0052par0329	In that respect, have you made a self-criticism about this, and you want a budget from this House?
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0059par0330	We planted the flag on the toad.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0052par0331	Greece, along with the United States, is training in the field of target practice in West Thrace. You want a budget so they can run new drills on our line? Again, Greece is conducting an armed exercise at Gökçepınar village in West Thrace. It's a show of strength for our kin, my friends. Have you been able to prevent this? Do you want a budget from this House?
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0060par0333	All of them.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0052par0334	Russia, along with Egypt, is training against Turkey in the Black Sea, trying to send a message to Turkey in this way. Do you want a budget even if you can block them? [[Applause from CHP rows]] You say, "Sisi is a coupger." You remove the political dialogue with Egypt, and when the financial blow strikes, you run to Mali.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0060par0337	You wouldn't understand.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0052par0338	You want a budget to sign the same inconsistencies over and over again? 34 of our soldiers were killed in an air raid in Syria. Russia's shadow fell on it. Immediately after that, you rushed to Moscow, you waited for minutes at the gates; not enough, but how you were kept waiting at the door in the evening on Russian TV stations. You want a budget to repeat these scandals? When you say, "Trump, I will destroy your economy." When this soul is in this body, I will not give this priest. You put him on a plane and sent him away. The President of the United States is conducting hostage diplomacy, demanding ransom Turkey. He said you were silent, you couldn't speak, you didn't speak. In response, you sent messages of love from here, my friend Trump. Is that what you want budgets for?
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0061par0340	What did you do? You're on your knees! What are you talking about?
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0062par0341	Congratulate Karaböp, Hodja.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0052par0342	Trump wrote an insult to Erdogan, hid this letter from Turkey, hid it from the Turkish nation. When Trump showed this letter to the reporters, they knew about it.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0061par0343	You were standing there hand and foot!
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0052par0344	Instead of giving him the answer he deserved, you just presented the letter. You can't protect our national honor. You want a budget even if you protect it? [[Applause from CHP rows]] A bill adopted in the U.S. Congress envisions sanctions for Turkey, and the same bill requires the investigation of President Erdoğan's property, so that Erdogan is taken into consideration and met with silence. You can't go out in the middle and threaten to have your chest examined. Did you ask for a budget? [[From the CHP rows, they applaud the sound of the voice of Bravo (Bravo).]] In Cyprus, the Greeks do not want to share the political power and the wealth in the Mediterranean with the Turkish Cypriots, you have managed to change the Greek policies, you have adopted our rights in the international community, and you want a budget?
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0063par0350	Congratulate Maraş. Speak of Marash. Congratulate Karaböp.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0064par0351	If you're the headline, you're the headline in Greece! You've become a headline in Greece!
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0052par0352	Egypt, Israel, Greece, South Cyprus, Italy, Jordan, all of them are building the Eastern Mediterranean Gas Forum.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0064par0353	You're a headline in Greece!
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0052par0354	We are the longest coastal country in the eastern Mediterranean, an attempt to exclude Turkey. You can stop this, but you want a budget?
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0064par0355	You made the headlines in Greece!
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0065par0356	Tell me why Greece made headlines.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0064par0357	Are there other lawmakers complaining about their country?
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0066par0358	South countries of the European Union at the summit of the MED7...
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0067par0360	Here you go, Mr. Emre.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0066par0361	Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0067par0363	Please, Mr. Lawmakers...
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0066par0364	Don't be sarcastic. Guys, here's the thing... the S-400 is back to the snake story. Why haven't you activated it yet, what are you waiting for? How can you give me the money and not activate it? We'll do it in April. You said, the interval ends, the interval ends, what are you waiting for?
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0068par0366	Don't be jealous, don't be jealous!
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0066par0367	You've managed to build an air defense system, you've made it possible to share technology, and you want a budget? Our weapons industry was going to do $12 billion in business under the F35 project.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0068par0368	Congratulate Azerbaijan!
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0066par0369	Our country lost 12 billion dollars of work, what did you replace it with? What do you want with a budget?
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0068par0370	Tell me about the toad.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0066par0371	How many times has the European Parliament decided against Turkey? The East Mediterranean has decided to cut negotiations. He has decided on the Turkish-Greek conflict, he has decided on it, he has taken it, he has taken it. Which one of these have you been able to block, so you want a budget? [[Applause from CHP rows, noise from AK PARTY rows]] America was going to collect weapons from the PYD in Syria, and he broke his promise, and we did not forget it. And you've been underlining that word many times, and that's your commitment, too. Did the U.S. recover these weapons, and you want a budget?
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0069par0374	Do not support Assad. The issue in Syria will be resolved in one day. Don't support Assad, it will be solved in one day, in one day.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0066par0375	The next F35 is going to Emirates. Did you stop us from being excluded from the F35 project because you want a budget? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] My dear friends, we have much to discuss. I'm out of time, I don't want to abuse the President's goodwill.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0070par0378	It's epic. It's in Karabağ.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0066par0379	Turkey has problems, and they have solutions. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0071par0382	Say something from Azerbaijan. Did you say anything about the toad?
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0072par0383	Mr. Sibel Özdemir... [[AK PARTY and CHP rows exchange speeches, noise]] Here you go, Mr. Özdemir.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0073par0387	Do you think there's abuse in the CHP?
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0074par0388	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the European Union presidency budget for 2021. I salute the General Assembly. Mr. Secretary, who can argue that we have a strong European Union membership perspective as we arrived today, starting in 2005, when we began negotiating with the European Union? In the process, despite all the inconsistencies, internal crises, internal debates of the European Union, we were unable to turn this process into an opportunity for our country with realistic policy and national strategy towards our membership. In time, you failed to make the necessary democraticisation and structural reform process permanent, and we even went back. And the Cyprus, the refugee issue, the visa exemption, the Customs Union Agreement, and now the Eastern Mediterranean, which you have reduced to the issue of the periodary negotiation and failed to achieve, and we have not been able to make any progress. We couldn't remove the blockage in front of our membership. We've faced funding cuts and sanctions agendas today. You thought you were taking two steps forward, but you've always taken our national interests three steps back. Here's the latest European Union Turkey report, as we've been going back in many areas, emphasised that our country is quickly away from institutionalisation, increasingly personalizing, power dissolution and balance control mechanisms. In particular, the presidential government system and its practices were the main reason for this rapid departure. We've all witnessed it as long as it's returned to command from balance inspection. We're dealing with a system of governance where power and decision are collected in one person. The result was reflected in our relations with the European Union, as it went backwards in all areas at the national level. So we're going back very quickly with the legal arrangements that we've made in your era, including 16 topics that we've introduced, that we've adapted to the legislation, that we've acquired. Environment, taxes, competition, financial provisions are a few of them. It is this: In new legal changes, we leave all decisions to a President who is politically represented in the regulations concerning independent and private institutions. Here's a sample of the Federal Reserve, valued lawmakers. What did we do, Mr. Secretary, when we were being asked by the European Union to secure its independence and autonomy, as we were warning us? We replaced the presidents of the Central Bank with the President's arbitrary decision overnight, and as if that wasn't enough, we appointed a party central bank president. (Applause from the ranks of CHP) We quickly moved away from the Copenhagen political criteria, including the basic criteria for our membership, democracy, rule of law, fundamental rights and freedoms, and fell back on the democracy index. The result of all this, along with the loss of international credibility and trust, has led to serious costs and vulnerability, especially in economic areas. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, who is responsible for all this? With a long-term and long-term view of governance, it is your choice of foreign policy, set in terms of personal preferences, periodary day-to-day priorities, rather than national, even a political party. You have not given up using our foreign policy and European Union relations as conflicting, mutually threatening, domestic policy-oriented, a means to maintain power and power. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Why didn't you develop our integration process as a country, not as a country, but as a country in which we are based on bilateral problems and preconceptions, and even though you had the support of all social, legal support and Parliament behind you, why didn't you take the process from a barren and shallow point of view with the European Union to a point of mutual commitment and responsibilities? Instead of focusing on your own practices and policies, you hoped that the European Union's term presidents would change. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Now, Mr. Secretary, you will come up here at the end of the day, and in your presentation, you will say: "Greek Cypriots, south of Cyprus, take their own decisions." Of course, we strongly deny all of this country's arguments, all of its preconceptions against our country, but we need to question these problems, why did we allow the troubled countries in our bilateral relations to move to the plane of the European Union? Why couldn't we run through official, technical, legal, diplomatic channels with the European Union instead of entering a conflict environment? With aggressive and incoherent explanations, we've always lost confidence, so why did we go backwards from our gains? Why couldn't we defend our fair arguments in time and in place in terms of international law? Why haven't we been able to provide country and institutional support for our rights in the eyes of the European Union all this time? You've never considered whether your foreign policy argument in the field or at the table has been perceived as an international response to our country as combative and aggressive foreign policy, Mr. Secretary. In international relations, you have mediated the principle of win-win in domestic policy with ▪fight-fighting. "O Europe! Yes, the policy of Merkel! Even though it offers a premium in domestic politics, there is no response in international relations; you have never accepted that there is no gain." And you chose to avoid persistent, inclusive, diplomatic, long-term, strategic and peaceful foreign policy. Mr. Secretary, on the other hand, I'd like to draw your attention to one more thing. You have not actively used institutions and institutional communication channels that exist in relations with the European Union. How? The institutional structure of the Secretary General of the European Union has been changed. All those institutional structures, diplomatic channels, and now you've disabled the presidency of the European Union, you've put it in the background. For example, Mr. Secretary, do you remember the AUSI, which began in 2010? Turkey's European Union Communication Strategy ABIS. Very comprehensive, diversified country strategies have been set for EUİS/ member states, but you have not implemented any of them. Here's the basis of this strategy, which our latest European Union President, Mr. Sub-Committee, has written the pre-said, is a process management with communication, institutional and diplomatic channels. But what did you do, Mr. Secretary? You put aside all these institutions, the president, all the communication channels before the summit of the European Union, just a few days before the European Union summit, you tried to lobby with the President's Speaker. Isn't that proof of your approach to this process? Unfortunately, at the moment we're here, it's your government and your Ministry that are responsible for a failed administration that has also squandered the achievements of the European Union.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0075par0399	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0074par0400	Now, Mr. Secretary, you've been presented with a three-month calendar. Are you going to continue your failed process management, your mistakes, or are you going to consider our warnings and start a realistic, reassuring, institutional, diplomatic process? In the end, Mr. President, the esteemed MPs and Mr. Secretary, we know very well that this approach, this mentality and this power that sees our future in Europe as periodical and medial, will not succeed.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0076par0402	Minister successful, successful Minister. God exists, he's successful, he's working, he's trying.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0074par0403	We, the Republican People's Party, call for the Second Century as we declare it in our declaration, with our strong democracy...
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0076par0404	Appreciate it, support it. Give support to this Minister. He's working.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0074par0405	...with fundamental rights and freedoms, through our democratic, secular, social law-based administration system, which will contribute to Europe and the world, and for our future generations, we will succeed in becoming a proud, respected, powerful strategic member of the European Union. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0077par0408	Here you go, Mr. Turan.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0078par0411	I don't know if they're applauding me or Mrs.Sibel, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0079par0412	Your own group doesn't applaud you.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0078par0413	Mr. President, my dear friends, by the grace of our Speaker, we've finally made a commitment to bullying on behalf of the groups. We patiently listened to them. At times, there may have been statements that contradicted the scope of the bench, but even then...
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0080par0414	What the hell happened?
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0078par0415	I'd like to remind you that the ministers will have answers to the matter at night. And in a moment, our group's speakers will be doing this, but I'd like to make two points, Mr. President. Look, we've had talks with three major ministers today, including Agriculture, Youth and the State Department. The speakers -- I tried to track them specifically -- today's examples, their conversations, almost the same as last year, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0081par0417	You haven't figured anything out.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0078par0418	I'm done. I've been told, all the numbers...
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0082par0419	You didn't listen, you didn't understand anything.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0081par0420	You haven't figured anything out in a year.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0078par0421	That's a shame, but don't do that.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0083par0423	Let's finish it.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0078par0424	Mr. President, they've spoken for 70 minutes, we haven't opened our mouths; I'm going to say a moment in total, let me at least try to show you your democratic makeup, or at least show it.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0084par0425	Okay, Mr. Bulent, go ahead.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0078par0426	Mr. President, all the data given on agriculture will be inadmissible and wrong by evening. I'd like to give you a number: when our agricultural policies began in 2002, our agricultural production of $52 billion was over 450 billion in 2019; there is tremendous improvement. Is there anything missing? Is there anything wrong? We have a world crisis, we have things we can't do, but when we look at the bigger picture, it's clear what a great success story is written. Other than that, Mr. President, I can't help but notice that our speakers on Foreign Affairs... Our Minister will answer in the evening, but as a son of this country, I'd like to say that the parties are today, they don't exist tomorrow, they're gone, but we've seen with caution, Mr. President, that almost all speakers act as spokesman for the owners of troubled areas instead of Turkey's policies.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0085par0428	Thank you, Mr. Turan.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0078par0429	I want us all to watch it tonight. However, the whole world has learned that Turkey will not submit to threats, embargoes. I want that speaker to know that Turkey is such a country, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0085par0431	Thank you. Mr. Altay...
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0086par0434	Thank you. Mr. President, I salute you and the General Assembly. I'm saying get well soon, Mr. Secretary, who just got out of Corona. In fact, I, first of all, thank you very much to the MPs who gave valuable speeches to each other on the 8th day of the farewell budget.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0087par0438	I guess you're out next semester.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0086par0439	Mr. President, for example, a congressman of ours said that instead of erasing the debt of the rich, erase the debt of the young. What's wrong with that? One of our deputies said, "Do not seize the farmer's tractor or his cow." What's wrong with that? One of our MPs said that the crop from Tarla to the manufacturer is sold to the citizens in the market for $1.8. I wonder what's wrong with that. One of the four young MPs called him unemployed. I wonder what's wrong with that, and what's wrong with that, and Mr. President said, "Don't ruin the nation when 90 million favours are passed on to the Qatars who took Digiturk." I wonder what's wrong with that. Naturally, it is the duty of the opposition in Parliament to show the empty side of the glass. It is the nature of the business that political parties who advocate the process show the full side of the glass, as well as political parties who support it. But let's just say, Mr. President, this glass story used to be like this: it's half empty, half full. Now when the cup sample is given, Turkey does this: 1/4 is full, 3/4 is empty. What our friends said -- in this limited time -- they said less and less. So when we look at the state this country is in, the state of the citizen... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Did I use a minute?
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0088par0446	No, you didn't.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0086par0447	Okay. I'll tell you in foreign policy, we'll fight inside, we'll fight internal affairs, we'll argue. Just don't do this: If you accuse us of two things when we're talking about the wrongs of executive foreign policy here, one, what do you say? There's no place for him to sleep in this country, and there's no place for him to sleep. (CHP) Second, don't blame us for loyalty to the values of the nation, for disloyalty. Look, I'll tell you something: I've spoken to Mr. Erdogan about this place. We will be hurt by every word that has been said to the President of Turkey against Turkey outside. For him, I always tell Erdogan: Don't take the AK PARTY Group behind you, take the Grand National Assembly of Turkey behind you so you can keep your head up outside. [[Applause from CHP rows]] While Mr. Secretary is here, we need to make a quick reminder on the matter of the Eastern Mediterranean: 1974 was the exit of Turkey of 60 million, I believe, in the symbol of power and cooperation between Erbakan and the deceased Ecevit. Thankfully, we were able to protect our rights and interests in the eastern Mediterranean like lions. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] But I don't think it's appropriate for the execution to now pass this place and enter a position that has conquered Cyprus again. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0089par0455	Thank you, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0090par0457	Mr. President, I told you that Mr. Engin will respond to his claims in the evening, and I'll tell you again, we'll answer them.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0086par0458	I guess you're just gassing it up.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0090par0459	But he's repeating his statement every day, Mr. President: the farewell budget, the farewell budget. I've been a congressman for ten years, Mr. Engin has been doing this -- in the nail -- in every budget for ten years.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0086par0461	No, he's not... he's lying.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0091par0462	Thank you, Mr. Turan.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0090par0463	Wait a minute, wait a minute, Mr. President. I'll tell you if it's true or not.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0092par0465	We love Engin Bey, we don't want him to go.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0090par0466	We're going to the 2018 elections.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0093par0467	The choice is separate.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0090par0468	With Mr. Altay, we have a separate law. We joined an important television station together, and Mr. Altay probably made another joke just as I was leaving on the TV station after I gave my speech, and he said: "May your departure be good, good-bye."
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0093par0469	Yeah.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0090par0470	I'm back on the screen, Mr. President, write down your claim. I said, but we won our bet, but then we didn't make a claim in return. I wish we'd gotten into his suit, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0093par0471	If we did, I'd take it.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0094par0472	I have a suit from the AKP people in the local elections, but they didn't buy it.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0090par0473	He says that in every election, he says that in every budget, but this nation hasn't left the AK PARTY that hasn't wronged him in 18 years, and he won't let go again, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0095par0475	They're gonna say the same thing next year.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0094par0476	I've won, but your friends haven't.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0096par0477	Mr. Altay...
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0097par0478	It's the first time I've used the word "good-bye budget" in this budget, it's our nation's appreciation, of course, it's the great nation, but I don't really understand how to relate to a polemic, debate, and the budget of the last election. Appreciation, everyone will see. These people are moaning, and the next budget will not be an EC PARTY budget. He's going back to the reports.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0098par0480	Yes, I don't want Mr. Engin to go, keep it, keep it.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit01spe0096par0481	I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0096par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Second Session of the 31st Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will resume negotiations with the Central Management Budget Law Proposal of 2021 and the Central Management Law of 2019, where we left off. 1) Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry 2021 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) Forest General Directorate 2021 Central Management Budget 2) Forest General Directorate 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) State Water Affairs General Directorate 2021 Central Management Budget 2) State Water Affairs General Directorate 2019 Central Management Final Account M) METEOROLOGY GENIORITY [[Continue]] 1) The General Directorate of Meteorology 2021 Central Management Budget 2) The General Directorate of Meteorology 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkey's Water Institute Central Management Budget for 2021 2) Turkey's Water Institute Final Account for Central Management 2019 1) The Ministry of Youth and Sports 2021 Central Management Budget 2) Youth and Sports Ministry Final Account for Central Management in 2019 1) State Department Central Management Budget for 2021 2) The State Department Final Account for Central Management in 2019 1) The Central Management Budget of 2021, President of the European Union 2) Central Management Final Account for the President of the European Union 2019 ÜRK AKRUDITASYON BUILDING [[Continue]] 1) Turkish Accreditation Agency Central Management Budget for 2021 2) Turkish Accreditation Institution 2019 Central Management Final Account The commission is in place. I will now promise the speakers of the Justice and Development Party. The first word belongs to Mr. Yasar Kharpınar. Here you go, Mr. Centipede.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0099par0041	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my AK PARTY Group on the budget of our Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry for 2021. I salute the General Assembly and my dear fellow citizens who follow us at the beginning of their screens. Also, my condolences to the flood-torn people of Izmir. Agriculture and animalism are generally an area where everyone has an opinion, including the ability to criticize easily or offer solutions. There's no need to express again what a strategic sector agriculture is now here today. It's very easy to say that all the resources associated with agriculture are the world's scarcest resources, so these resources need to be used in the most efficient way. We have already stated that those who control food in the future will control the world, and we have lived with the entire world in the pandemic process. In the pandemic process, we have seen closely the state of all the countries from America to Europe, of the most famous countries in the world. All of them failed, their shelves were empty, their food chains were broken, and they even began stealing each other's supplies; in short, they experienced the apocalypse. But thankfully, there was no such problem in Turkey, and our food chain was not broken. In providing for this powerful infrastructure, I once again express my deepest gratitude to our highly respected ministers, our precious farmers, and most importantly our food army, especially our President, who has always been by the manufacturer's side. In the meantime, we also need to highlight our Ministry's examination with sectors, because while everyone was sitting at home, our farmer, in fact, continued to produce in the process. So in this second quarter, our agricultural sector grew by 4%. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Also, when we look at another headline, it is intended that in 2050 the world population will find 10 billion, and the population of our country will find 100 million, and that data shows us how serious our situation is in the future. The increase in concreteisation, climate change, the misuse of land and water, shows how much our agricultural sector and our land are threatened. So we moved on, protecting 265 plains in our 65 provinces, with the potential to produce. And as another improvement, we've collected land. Another area, again, we have prevented the division and disintegration of agricultural land through an inheritance. We adopted a basin-based agricultural system to increase efficiency, to avoid waste of resources. Again, we support dozens of products in our 945 basin. I would also like to say that the agricultural-profitable treasures have been opened to the service of our farmers so that they can be farmed. Everyone knows that as of today in the world and in our country, water is the scarcest source. We continue to invest in water in our country and across our country, as we have since. Again, with regard to water investments, because of the fact that other methods other than classical methods have been adopted, I would like to thank and thank the Ministry of Agriculture once again here because I would like to express that hundreds of our country's countries are now beginning from here, because there are really not only subterranean dams that are a waste of resources, but a very easy investment tool, because there are so many of them. On the other hand, all investments in our dams, our ponds, our HESEs, our irrigation fields and water areas continue quickly. Also, in 16 years of water processing, we've produced 7,200 works, and we've completely eliminated the drinking water problem of our 81 provinces. [[From the AK PARTY rows, they applaud the sound of the voice of the "Bravo" (Bravo).]] Again, we aim to promote and encourage agriculture-based industry to achieve our goals. All efforts are being made to promote and develop agricultural-based specialized organised areas. Again, in order for our animalism to improve, we are deeply concerned about co-op. Our ministry, who has always been with the manufacturer, has once again revealed to dozens of products that it is a friend of our manufacturer's by announcing the price before the harvest. In 18 years, our governments have always stood by our farmer for the growth and development of the agricultural sector, and our government has mobilized all its resources in this sense.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0100par0053	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0099par0054	In particular, diesel and fertilizer support for inputs, seed support and bait plant support continue quickly, and again, I would like to say that when we cross the Presidential government system, our agricultural product has increased by 46 per cent. I would like to remind you that we, the EC PARTI governments, will never allow anyone to gaze at our producer's sweat, sweat, labor, and the food of our consumers. (Applause from the AK PARTI desks) We consider the speculators in the agricultural sector a national security problem again, and we treat them accordingly. In this direction, our Ministry will continue its work by increasing its work in the future, and I want to express it here once again, and I say that we have complete faith in it. Again, I wish that our ministry's budget for 2021 would be good for our country and our nation, especially for our Ministry of Youth and Sports and our State Department's budgets, and I salute you and our fellow citizens on the screen.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0101par0058	Mr. Bekir Force Erim.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0102par0060	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the budget of our Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry for 2021. I hereby salute the High Council and the citizens who follow us on their screens with love and respect. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] I'd like to make a point at the beginning of my speech. Now, Mr. Nightingale is here.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0103par0063	I was wondering when you were gonna talk.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0102par0064	I know you're going to say it again, and you put it in your tongue. Mr. Nightingale, the nightingales are usually put in a good mood, but you're on the thorn. (AK PARTY APPLAUSE) You can't win an election like this. If you make these geothermals better, it's going to be like this.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0103par0066	Did you open the window? Did you open the window and smell that smell? Did you smell the hydrogen sulfur gas?
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0102par0067	You showed this dry olive tree in the budget, and you showed it in the budget. Look, you've shown this dry olive tree in the High Council. It's called verticillium paleness. It's not a disease that's had geothermal for centuries. Look, anyone can find out from the Department of Agriculture website. There's no need for perception here, because it tells your fellow citizens: "Allah, Allah, what is this?" So if there's anything harmful to geothermals, we don't do it, look, we don't do it.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0103par0068	Mr. Erim, did you open the window and smell that hydrogen sulfur smell? Did you smell raw eggs?
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0102par0069	Look, about that...
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0103par0070	Do you know those flowing fluids, the fluids that flow to the Great Menderes?
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0102par0071	Look, everything has its pros and minuses, and the important thing is to take the pluses.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0103par0073	Ask the Mukhtars, the chiefs. What do the mayors say?
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0102par0074	Look, just a minute, if you'll excuse me... A cumulative impact has been conducted by the European Bank of Development to assess the geothermal fields in Turkey in co-operation with our Ministry. With a very participating understanding, project outputs, especially the region's people, were provided to serve all the partners. As a result of this assessment...
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0103par0076	How long has the cancer rate been in Aydin?
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0104par0077	They're jealous! They're jealous!
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0102par0078	On 6 November 2020, 2 regulations and 1 notifications were revised under their recommendation. For hydrogen sulfur emissions in geothermal energy production facilities, which are powered by modifications to 5 megawatts and above...
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0103par0079	No need to wear a mask, we're breathing hydrogen sulfide.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0102par0080	...responsibility for continuous emissions measurement and environmental permission, depending on the production capacity of the Tesis. From 2018, 947 environmental checks were conducted by our Ministry and county managers at geothermal power plants.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0103par0081	He doesn't live in Aydin. He doesn't live in Aydın. He doesn't live in Aydın. He doesn't exist.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0102par0082	About $5.5m of administrative fines were fined on 67 facilities based on the irregularities detected.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0103par0083	By living in Ankara, he speaks of Aydın. Is that even possible? So tell me about Aydın and live in Ankara and...
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0102par0084	You, geothermale... Look, why don't you build a greenhouse?
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0105par0086	Mr. Erim...
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0106par0087	Where's the greenhouse? There are 28 power plants.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0105par0088	Mr. Nightingale...
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0107par0089	Anyway, the citizen figured it out; look, even the kid on the road knows it's useful.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0108par0090	Go ahead.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0107par0091	The 2021 Budget Proposal is the 19th and 3rd budget of our EC PARTY governments and the presidential government system. The basic mission of our budget would be to ensure that the Turkish economy progresses in solid and predictable steps in the global restructuring process, due to the Covid-19 epidemic, where our country will take its rightful place on a global scale. On this occasion, I wish that our budgets for 2021 of all the ministries and institutions that we meet and meet will bring blessings to our country, to our Veteran Assembly, and to our great nation. With the victory of our thousands of years of civilization and our ancestors, Asia Minor is our most precious treasure on earth with its rich and fertile lands. By acting with this consciousness, he appreciates our fertile land and our old farmers, and we've been doing firsts for 18 years with our agriculture and forest policies. I think we need this for our country, for our land, for our children and for future generations. The agriculture and forestry sector, which heads the most important sectors of Turkey's economy and social structure, continues to be an industry that contributes substantially to our economy with effective and decisive policies. And in parentheses, the speakers before us, they talked about loans. In '94, I had to sell all my farms and tractors because my agricultural loan was 120 per cent overnight with 28 per cent. At the point where we're here today, at the time of the AK PARTY governments, it starts from zero, 11 to 12 years old, on average 5 to 6 percent, according to its genre, according to its production, it has interest in loans, starting from zero. Our agricultural sector completed 2019 years with 3.7 percent growth. In 2020, it showed that in the first quarter, we were on our way to 2.6 percent, and in the second quarter, with 4% growth. The World Bank...
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0109par0096	The farmer's screwed, what are you talking about?
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0110par0097	Don't be jealous, don't be jealous!
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0107par0098	Yeah, it's all business, it's all business, it's all business, it's all about providing the minimum.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0111par0101	Mr. Orator, for God's sake, the debt of 180 billion farmers. Where's the way out of this? All right, you screwed up, let's hear it out!
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0112par0102	Where's 180 billion? You're bullshitting...
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0113par0103	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0114par0104	According to the World Bank criteria, during 2003-2019, the average growth of 2.8 per cent has left many European countries behind. In the last 18 years, we've increased agricultural support by 12 times.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0115par0105	The farmer listens to you!
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0114par0106	Let him listen.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0115par0107	Come on, tell me! Come on, tell me!
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0114par0108	That's why we're talking so he can listen.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0116par0109	Go on, go on!
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0114par0110	In 2002, the amount of $1.8 billion in agricultural support increased to $22 billion in 2020. Prim support is given to 5 products, and today we've reached 18 products in bonus benefits.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0117par0111	Doesn't he ever go home?
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0116par0112	Talk about bait prices, bait prices! I've had five raises in one month.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0118par0113	Listen, listen! Listen, learn! Learn!
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0119par0114	Of course, there's so much to tell in every sector in the industry, it's not enough time. We're trying to assess our country's agricultural potential at the highest level. With our investments, we continue to bring efficiency to the very top by enriching our fertile land. The government waterworks budget has tripled this year. (ARK PARTY) With State Waterworks, waterworks, dams and ponds, we spread water agriculture to add value to the value of our land. Besides, the production of hydroelectric energy, drinking, using and industry in our cities... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Let me finish my promise...
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0120par0118	The farmer is burning himself in the bank, farmer! What are you talking about? When did the farmer burn himself out of this period? The farmer is burning himself for his debts.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0119par0119	In addition, in 18 years, we have presented and continue to offer many projects, such as providing life and property safety against extremities.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0121par0120	Thank you, Mr. Erim.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0122par0121	Mr. President, let's give it a minute.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0119par0122	Madam Secretary, thank you so much for your support -- I haven't had enough time -- with the land crop office.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0123par0123	Don't tell me, it's the land crop office, the import office.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0119par0124	Especially figs, wheat, apricots, raisins, nuts; I thank you very much for all of them.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0124par0125	Mr. Erim, thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0119par0126	Thank you. I wish our budget to be blessed.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0125par0129	Mr. President, Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0126par0130	There's no such procedure.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0125par0131	Mr. President, the nightingale is on the thorn. I'm being teased for saying so. I want you to promise me after your speeches.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0127par0132	Mr. Ibrahim Aydın, come in.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0128par0134	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my AK PARTY Group on the budget of the Director General of the Forest. I salute our Veteran Assembly and our beloved nation. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] I wish you well, citizens of Antalya and Izmir, who have suffered from the rains. The Forest General Directorate, where I have served for thirty years and have been honored to be a member, is a hundred and eighty-one-year-old institution responsible for providing our country's forest resources with sustainable management and providing resources to the interests of our nation. Today, as a country, we are one of the few countries in the world to increase the presence of forests. In the last 18 years, about 5,400,000 hectares of forestry have been met with about 4 billion 660 million saplings. Our goal, at the end of 2023 -- the size of the world's population -- is to plant 7 billion seedlings, raising our forest existence to 23 million 400,000 hectares, 30 percent of our country's land. We're world leaders in the fight against erosion. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers have declared November 11th, the Day of the National Plantation, which values the tree and the environment. This decision has been shared with all the public, signed by our President. Last year, our citizens have had a lot of interest in the campaign of Breathing to the Future, which was carried out by our President himself. During the event, more than 1,200,000 people from each community set 14 million saplings, setting records, and the entire dorm was a holiday air. As part of this campaign, the theme of this year's theme is not only for our country, but also for our world's future, with the importance of the treeing, including breathing into the future. Joining our 81 counties and 922 counties, joint plant structures have been carried out in 30 countries. Dear lawmakers, we have built forests as the engine of rural development. 38 action plans, including walnuts, almonds, mortars, berries and so on, have been implemented in order to diversify the rural population's revenue resources and benefit the country's economy. In order to feed, sustain, improve, and prevent migrations from the forest villages, 5,000 Forest Action Plans have thus far been established in 5,420 villages. So far, thanks to our support for beekeeping and honey production, our country has risen to the second rank in the world in the 6th row of honey production. Dear lawmakers, you have kechin, you have guilt. There is great support for our animalism by planning to graze our forests by giving up your understanding. In 2002, 15 million dollars of support for our forest villagers were raised to 250 million TL in 2020, and in 2021, 300m TLO loans will be issued. Dear lawmakers, one of the things that has been important in our country in recent years is no doubt medical and aromatic plants. In this regard, the research commission has also been established in the Turkish Grand National Assembly and has completed its work and presented its report. The latest arrangements will allow the development of medical and aromatic plants and the establishment of facilities to be processed from broken forest areas. The medical and aromatic plants contributed $6 billion to the country's economy in 2020 and $800m to the forest peasant. We aim to enter among the top 10 countries, where the production of non-wood forest products has been increased to get a share in the $115 billion medical and aromatic plant market around the world. Exports of medical and aromatic plants are now around $1 billion, and are targeted at 5 billion in 2023. From 2003 to today, 1.566 places of employment have been established and 134 urban forests have been established. From state forestry to nation forestry. Dear lawmakers, we aim to meet our country's need for forest products from local sources, due to activities such as maintenance of our forests, rejuvenation. In order to reduce external dependence in the sector, we will increase industrial wood production in 2002, 14 million cubic metres, to 25 million cubic meters in 2020, and 28 million cubic meters in 2021. Our goal is to meet 100 per cent of our country's production in 2023 with local resources. Dear lawmakers, as of the end of 2021, the forest cadastro will be registered in certain areas, and 2/B programmes will be completed at the end of 2023. Thus, property problems that have been unresolved for many years and have had a negative effect on forest-people relations will have been completely resolved, and our forests will be protected more effectively. As a result of studies, technical and legal problems have been reduced, there have been serious decreases in cases that have been brought to trial, not rivals with the forest villager.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0129par0146	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0128par0147	As part of efforts to combat forest fires, the Forest Fire Management System and the manpower, land and air vehicles were managed from one centre and Turkey was able to build a strong structure that could help surrounding countries in the fight against forest fires at any time. That's how we became the leading country in our territory in the fight against forest fires. With the early warning system that we set up, the time to intervene in forest fires has been reduced from 40 minutes to 12 minutes. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Yes, it's the first time in our country that the UAV has been used in combating forest fires, except military purposes, and when we look at the average burning field statistics in the Mediterranean countries over the past decade, we're still leading the Mediterranean countries in the least burning area. Portugal is around 134 thousand in Spain and 64,000 in Italy and 24,000 hectares in Greece and 7,000 hectares in our country. As part of our forest headquarters' work, areas damaged by the fire are not allowed to plant and destroy forest existence within the same year. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Thank you for all this hard work, from your employee to your officer, from your engineer to your chief of staff, and from everyone who's done it. I ask God's mercy on our 117 brothers and all our martyrs who were martyrs in the fight against the fire. I wish our budget of 2021 was a blessing to our country and our nation.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0130par0156	Mr. Jahan Pektaş, come in.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0131par0158	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group on the budget of the State Water Affairs General Directorate. I salute you. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] The DSI is not only a dam maker, it's also an organization that builds agricultural irrigation. We see a significant increase in the budget of 2021 compared to the years spent in investment funds for agricultural irrigation. This is a sign of the importance of irrigation.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0132par0161	There are no irrigations in Şanlıurfa.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0131par0162	The most important parameter for growth in agricultural production is watery agriculture. When you move from dry agriculture to watery agriculture, the yield increases from four to 13 floors. About one third of our country's facial measurement, or 231 million, is farmland. Our economically irrigable land is 85 million per cent. So, where are we with the irrigation? Some 10 million of the irrigations that began in the 1950s are the public irrigation of our citizens, 13 million per cent of the watering of the old Village Services, 43.6 million per cent of the land irrigated by the DSI, and the total number has reached 66.6 million cayennes. Construction of 6.2 million per cent of the remaining 18.4 million acres continues, while projects of 7.2 million acres have been completed and have reached the tender stage. Hopefully, in a few years, we'll be able to finish off all of our irrigable properties and start running them. Dear lawmakers, in the past 18 years, we have opened to water 19 million acres. Since 2003, we've stopped and revised new projects and built them all as pipe systems, watering closed systems at 6 per cent to 29 per cent. We're building a system that has a long business life, which is very low on operating costs according to the open system, which encourages rain and dripping that saves at least 30 percent more water.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0133par0165	My dear Regent, there's nothing in this Glory! We don't get it either!
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0131par0166	At the same time, the use of water controlledly prevents the salting of the soil. We're not a water-rich country with resources, but we're not water-poor when we use our water well. We have the potential to use 112 billion cubic metres of drinking water annually. We're already using 57 billion cubic metres of this; we're consuming 44 billion cubic metres of agriculture, 13 billion cubic metres of drinking, using, and industry. As it turns out, most of the spending is in agricultural irrigation. If we had built open systems that we'd finished, we'd be using 50 billion cubic metres of water today instead of 44 billion cubic meters. Our goal is to build the entire project as a piped system. Of course, dams and ponds must be built before the irrigation project can be done. Because we have to store it because of our precipitation regime. To give an example: The ongoing Silvan Dam will end in 2022 and water 2 million and 350,000 acres. We've also reduced the construction costs of projects, and there's a significant cost difference in projects that have been done before. In 2001, it cost $14,000 per hectare to water the Sanliurfa Yaylak Plain. Despite more difficult geography, the use of the same technology costs $3,500 per hectare of Antalya Korkuli, which began in 2012 and ended in 2015. (EC PARTY APPLAUSE) We're finishing projects soon, and we're lowering costs.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0133par0168	Friend, it's been twenty years, twenty years! When do you finish?
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0134par0169	Didn't you get his money back from the citizen? Just so you know, the citizen paid for half of it!
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0131par0170	In my hometown of Silverhouse, there were only 3,400 irrigations that ended up in 2003, so we added 191,000 per cent, and the work of the 240 thousand per cent watering continues. All the pipes and parts used to build projects are produced by our local companies with high-tech technology. Dear lawmakers, our HESbooks, which are constantly opposed by certain groups, provide watering water for energy production, as well as millions of decrepit land. Turkey's largest hydropower plant, the Ataturk Dam, is transmitted to Mardin plains through the largest artificial river in the world, built 221km long. An important pencil in agricultural production that reduces business inputs is the collection of land. In 1961, we began the gathering that Europe had done many years ago. 142 million acres were planned to be massed, and when we arrived in 2002, we processed only 4.5 million acres of land. We've increased that number more than 10 stories, raising 47.2 million square miles, and still working on 35.3 million acres. (AK PARTY APPLAUSE) The constitution of land use is 1/100. We didn't have plans for a 2,000-percent environment, so we brought the work from 3 per cent to 99 per cent. From time to time, someone comes out, says there's no license and no merit in the bureaucracy.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0134par0173	Yeah.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0135par0174	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0131par0175	With our President leading the chronicized problems of the decade, we, hopefully, are going to finish the remaining projects with driver's licenses and merits. We rely on our officers, our experts, our engineers and our bureaucrats. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] I thank the Deputy Minister, DSI General Manager and his colleagues, especially our Minister, who has been involved in all these projects, and I salute the Grand Assembly.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0135par0179	In turn, it belongs to Mr. Selahattin Minsolmaz. Here you go, Mr. Minsolmaz.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0136par0182	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to our budget for 2021 on the budget of the State Department of Water Affairs. I salute your high council, our beloved nation. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] One of the hundreds of our country's waterworks headquarters, which was founded in 1953, completed its organization in 1954, and was number 4 in 2008. It is one of the major institutions that operates within our Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry through the presidential decree. Its irrigation activities perform important services both in rural and urban areas, with its important efforts to provide hydroelectric plants, extremities, collection facilities, and drinking water for cities. As much as water supply, in places where water is harmful, extremities are primarily important facilities for the protection of our people's life and property. If water flows, the river falls, the waterfall stops, there's a lake, but if the State Water Affairs General gets his hands on it, there's energy, there's life on the barren land. [[From the AK PARTY rows, they applaud the sound of the voice of the "Bravo" (Bravo).]] From 1954 until 2002, when our government took office, the State Water Affairs General Directorate, which has been doing very important work, has also increased them in 18 years from 2002 to today, and has really taken care of a lot of our farmers, producers, energy-using industry and cities. With the work of the State Water Affairs General Directorate, which guides science and uses all the resources of engineering, it has carried out exemplary projects in the world. This is -- from 1954 to 2002 -- to some of the work he did during 48 years, and in this process, during 18 years of our government, we could add 276 dams, but in 18 years, we could add 585 dams to it; while hydropower plants were 97, we could add 584 times 6 times that. The collection has been made 10 times in this forty-eight-year period, while 22 times the totalization project, which is 222 times the totalization project, has been implemented by the State Waterworks. Of course, these studies could be worth 245 billion Turkish liras today, referring to the 2020 prices of the 18-year-old period we're talking about. Depending on this, an average of $50 billion per year has been added from agricultural and electricity revenues. To mention a few of these projects, which are the pride of Turkey, valued lawmakers, the Ermenek Dam is the highest dam in Turkey's area with a height of 218 metres, and as a marvel of engineering, a double curved, thin belt concrete has given our economy a very serious value. The Blue Tunnel, the Adnan Menderes Dam to China, and the Hydroelectric Plant, have given up a hundred and forty years' longing for the Aegean. The Deeper Dam and Hydroelectric Plant are one of Turkey's highest dams in its category, at the height of 240m. Again, the Borakka Dam, Dalaman Akkörü Dam, the Zamantu Tunnel, the Naras Dam, the Ilisu Professor Veysel Eroğlu Dam and the Hydroelectric Plant are also very important projects. This dam has become the world's 1st dam in its area of filling volume. When it is completed, the Yusufeli Dam, which will become a major asset, will be the third dam of the world in its class, with a height of 270m [70 m] on the Chorus River, and will provide $1 billion a year on the Tigris River when the Silvan Dam is completed. The work of our State Water Affairs General is not only completed by dams, massifications and extremism facilities, but by trying to ensure that the drinking of water in 81 counties will be watered by 2040, 2050, and 2070. Most important of all, we are receiving the results of this addition value that all joined the country in Ankara, where our President opened it, in Gaziantep, in Konya, with the Blue Tunnel Project. The State Water Affairs General Directorate is doing very important work not only at the Turkish border, but at the municipal centers, but also outside the country's borders. As you know, in Africa, with 512 wells made in nine countries, 2 million worlds have allowed people to obtain healthy and clean water. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Yes, the work of State Waterworks is a very important project in both agriculture and the prevention of excesses and the production of energy. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, if you'll excuse me, just one more minute.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0137par0196	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0136par0197	But it's too important and useful to fit within five minutes. In the region of Thirklareli, my territory, and the entire Thracian sath, a major work was done in the Ergene Basin Protection Action Plan, one of the feet of the Thracian Development Plan, which was launched by our President. All 13 treatment facilities in this entire plan have been in the Thracian region. I also want to thank our former Minister, Mr. Veysel Eroglu Hajji, who has worked very hard on all environmental projects in the region. (AK PARTY) Thank you to our Minister, the employees of the State Water Affairs General Directorate, my fellow engineers, technicians, technicians, and workers who have worked hard at everything. I want to say thank you to the President who put his political will on all of this. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0138par0201	Mr. Oğuzhan Kaya... Here you go, Mr. Rock.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0139par0204	Mr. President, dear MPs, dear nation, I salute you from the stand of our Veteran Assembly. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Although I have made a commitment to the budget of the General Directorate of Meteorology -- I hope that the Metheorology General Directorate budget will be a blessing -- I would like to continue my talk by telling you about the investments our Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry has made in our Collage. It is as important in our country as it is in the field of agriculture and livestock, it is also an industrial and manufacturing city. Our city contributes to production and employment with many factories and facilities in production of machines, bricks, dumps, gold, tiles and eggs. One of the three gold refinerys in Turkey is located in Çorum. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] When export numbers are 10-15-20 million dollars in the surrounding provinces, the export numbers are $1.5 billion; this is very important, when the export numbers in Chorum are 29 million dollars in 2002, today is $1.5 billion in exports, when the product industry is going to produce more and employ more materials to the ports, and the raw materials that it will process to transport to the ports and to reach its logistics centers. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Again, the arrival of businessmen who came to Corrum for exports, the travel of the corrupt businessmen abroad and abroad, and the transport minister for the airport, which Corrum needed for the transport of the materials produced. We think that agriculture is the most important source of production in Çorum, and we've raised the waterable land today to 42 per cent, 10 per cent for watering all the land that can be watered. Hopefully, when these projects are finished, the amount of waterable land will rise to 70 to 80 percent. In this case, we built the Koçhisar Dam in Alaca district. When the Koçhisar Dam is finished -- with watering -- it will water 120,000 acres of land. In the first place, we have completed the first part of watering 75,000 acres, serving with a closed irrigation circuit; from sunflowers to potatoes, onions, wheat, we produce all kinds of products. Our Agricultural Minister -- God willing -- our Alacal producers expect the export of onions to continue. Again, we tender the second stage of the Koçhisar Dam on January 11th and water 45,000 acres with this tender. Again, we're watering 80 thousand acres of land with the Hygienic Watering Project. We're watering a great land with the Derekranite Dam in Israel. We're bidding on the Dutludere Watering Project in Osmancık, Lacin, Dodurga economy for $40 million. Along with these, we tender the Osmancık drinking water line in January 2021, and offer several drinking water dams and irrigations in Uðludağ, Dodurga, Oğuz, Kargü, and other counties. We begin construction of the Dam with Korankış, which is very important to our Sungurlu, in 2021, and we will give drinking water to our Sungurlu district from here. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Along with these, we are developing agriculture and livestock in Çorum, and we are building a center for agriculture and livestock, and we are forming a Association of Coed Growers, led by our breeder's Association.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0140par0216	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0139par0217	Again, we're taking significant distances in the production of rice in Osmancık district, which is called rice. Our country also has a say in the ranking of agricultural products in Turkey and is the first in the production of what we call the "tritikale" product, and is third in the production of onions, and fourth in the production of green lentils. Hopefully, with our government's contributions, these productions will continue, and our Ministry of Agriculture and Forests has invested $328 million in support of the Stock. I hereby salute our esteemed President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, our Minister of Agriculture and Forestry, our DSI General Director, Deputy Director of Agriculture and Forestry, and our other General Directors, our beloved nation and Assembly, who have worked to bring these services to our Stockyard.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0140par0220	Mr. Nevzat Ceylan... Here you go, Mr. Ceylan.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0141par0223	Mr. President, I have made a promise regarding the Turkish Water Institute. I salute our Veteran Assembly and our beloved nation. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Global climate change has taken over the entire world. At the end of this year, we are all witnessing the warmest and driest climate of all years. It's clear to all of us that this problem that man ignores is making him feel more and more. Global warming affects the most water sources. Because of the wrong use of water and mismanagement in the world, the water balance has become increasingly unstable. Global-sized seas, streams, lakes, and underground waters have been contaminated. The wetlands, which provide water balance and natural balance, are significantly drained. In our country, where global warming is felt more and more clearly, water is at the top of the most important issues. Turkey has signed important work on water in the past 18 years. In order to prevent the losses of the wetlands, the protection of the wetlands has been issued, which has been changed in the Environmental Law, banning and filling wetlands. The law, which allowed the wetlands to be dried, has been abolished and has been terminated from the government waterworks General Directorate's job to dry the swamps, and studies have been launched to restore the dried wetlands. Dear lawmakers, all cities have been invested in this period to meet the need for drinking water for about 50 years. 73 percent of irrigable land has become irrigable. Pipe irrigation has been raised from 6 to 22 per cent, and drip irrigation has been widespread. The Su Temin Project of the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus, considered the project of the century, has been completed. The construction of hydroelectric plants has been saved every year from importing about $10 billion worth of natural gas. In 2002, 145 waste-water treatment facilities served, and the number was reached 1,148. In 2002, 35 per cent of the municipality's population was given a wastewater treatment service, while it increased to 87 per cent. The investment expenditures of the State Water Affairs General Directorate have reached enormous proportions. In this period, lawmakers have been established by the Water Management General Directorate in an effort to determine policies on protecting, improving and using water resources. Again, Turkey has become an active actor on the world scale, following the success of the World Water Forum, which was hosted by 190 countries and more than 30,000 people in Istanbul in 2009. In 2011, the Turkish Water Institute was founded as an international think tank for water to bring this experience and vision to life. The institute operates within the framework of goals such as contributing to the solution of global water issues, contributing to the creation of our country's sustainable water policies and strategies with new ideas and scientific models, supporting global co-operation on water. In our globalized world, water matters exceed borders. Turkey is leading water in its region, thanks to its large projects in the water area, its well-developed human resources and vast knowledge. Turkey's Water Institute operates water diplomacy, representing our country at several prestigious international events in the water area. The institute plays an important role in our country's overseas representation of international events in the water area. Many international organisations, such as the United Nations, Islamic Co-operation Agency, D8, the World Water Council, UNESCO, OSCE and OECD, share co-operation in water management and technology. For example, the activities of the Water Council established within the Islamic Co-operation Agency to resolve water issues in Islamic geography are co-ordinated by the Institute. It is also founded on the purpose of water as a means of peace and is a very important structure in the Middle East, where the Co-ordinating Office of the Blue Peace Initiative is being carried out by Turkey's Water Institute. As it turns out, the AK PARTY has also achieved significant success in the last 18 years. On this occasion, I would like to express my gratitude to our most strategic and vital water-related organizations and to their employees who have contributed to the success of these organizations. I wish the 2021 budget would be a blessing. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0142par0234	In turn, Mr. Rumemasa Kadak, the Istanbul MP. Here you go, Mr. Kadak.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0143par0237	The youngest legislator in the House, the youngest deputy in the House, let's go.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0144par0238	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear General Assembly, today I have made a pledge on behalf of my group about the Management Budget Law Proposal of 2021 years of our Ministry of Youth and Sports. I salute the General Assembly. [[From the AK PARTY rows, they applaud the sound of the voice of the "Bravo" (Bravo).]] Of course, what I'd like to start with today is that when you're called the Department of Youth and Sports, there's talk of dorms and scholarships, but our Ministry of Youth and Sports is much more than that. I don't think we're really helping young people by just providing shelter, by giving them their pocket money; we're also giving them the opportunity, and we're trying to create areas to explore their own abilities. Actually, I was going to tell you about what was done and what we wanted to do today, but seeing how things were going, I saw that it was necessary to add a few things. First, there is often talk of young people not voting, especially in the past few months. I did a quick search right here on my own phone. We've seen a lot of similar conversations in the last three elections, but who did the boys vote for? He voted for the AK PARTY. So it's not talking, it's working. [[From the AK PARTY rows, they applaud the sound of the voice of the "Bravo" (Bravo).]] Of course, young people may not like the work here, they may not vote; that's democracy. But I wanted to make a very brief reminder that when you devote all your energy to one person and one group leaving power, we can only think of three things: the first is that you try to stop talking about ourselves; the second is your failure; and the third is how successful the group that you really want out of power actually is. And at this point, I'm going to continue to talk about how God should not allow anyone such a long and institutionalized failure. [[From the AK PARTY rows, they applaud the sound of the voice of the "Bravo" (Bravo).]] The other point was that young people were unhappy. At this point, I'm not very happy with the results of the investigation. I'm doing some work on this, humbly. In what areas: social life, education and employment. But frankly, I mean, if you're so troubled about it, then, while I'm here, I'd like to ask you a few words. For example, when young people are being harassed today in your county buildings, your deputy comes in here and says, "Yes, it is, it will happen again." You can't expect these young people to be happy. Or when the children are dying, as the ages burn, for example, you can never expect these young people to be happy when the Aybüke Teacher is no longer among us. When you look at Eren, you can't expect us to be happy when the baby Bedirhan will never grow up. How can you expect us to be happy on the mountain when young girls -- I'm afraid to even say this -- are being raped by dirty terrorists? If you're so troubled about it, then really get out of here, with a lot of heart, with a consistent, serious step. Today, unfortunately, we're not going through what any country is going through. When you look at it, for example, there are more than 700 attacks coming to our border within a year and a half. We're starting an operation to protect our borders, to fight terrorists, and unfortunately, in our own Parliament, we can see criticism here as a result. We can see a 16-year-old, a 20-year-old teacher of my age, surrogates who go to the funeral of people who slaughter babies, or we see a couple of non-verbals who don't say a word about it, I think it's the same thing. So, since we've seen these things, unfortunately, we can't just ignore them and talk about other things. It's too short, we've spent $1.5 trillion in the fight against the PKK since 84. We spent it so people could live, so women wouldn't get raped. (AK PARTY) Today we spent so that the children would not be taken to the mountain; the children who distribute the sacrificial meat, so that they would not burn; in view, we spent our teachers, our beautiful teachers, our beautiful voice teachers, our young teachers. Oh, of course, he asked a oratory question here, how many young people have been granted scholarships, how many young people have been given jobs? That's what I'm saying. With this money, when it was looked at, a lot could be done. Yeah, with a lot of money, too. For example, I'm just looking at the cost of TOGG, that we can open 540 automobile factories in the factory. We could employ over 2 million young people.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0145par0250	We're saying the same thing.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0146par0251	We're saying the same thing.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0144par0252	But, of course, with all this going on, did they intimidate us? Never. While we continued, we also built 782 dormitories, and opened 350 youth centers. We built 350 innovation workshops, where we taught young people software, coding and robotics, young people in Turkey. When it's looked at, we've created 129 youth offices, and we're not talking about them at all. We built 30 TRYAP workshops, taught 55,000 young people software, taught robotics. It touches 2 million young people every year, that's our Ministry. And you have to talk about the things that have been done so that we can see that there really is some truth in your talks. [[From the AK PARTY rows, they applaud the sound of the voice of the "Bravo" (Bravo).]] For example, this year 500 teenagers, despite their pandemics, took the violin for the first time, free of charge, thanks to our courses. I think it's very exciting, and I know it's going to go up.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0147par0256	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0144par0257	For example, just last week, we opened the United Nations Youth Center in Balıkesir, which is the first in the world, which I personally watched closely. From here, I wish good luck to our Balıkesir and to our Turkey, and to set an example for the world. Of course, they're not mentioned in Congress. We now ask that the young people who live west and east of Turkey be given no distinction at the point of opportunity. When you look at it, the only reason a young person living in Siirt is unable to learn coding is because it's not relevant to this area, nothing more. The Ministry of Youth and Sports provides much more than loans and dorms. For one thing, it gives hope, it gives opportunity, it gives equal opportunities, and our ministry reaches millions of young people every year. He's touching at least 2 million young people directly, our Ministry, and he's going to keep touching them. We said we'd continue to shout at the young people who succeeded, to say that something could be done from this stand, against those who insisted that things would not be possible. Thanks to our young deputies, they speak of many young people from here. We know that many more Ceren wars will come to this country.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0148par0262	Youth stock. Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0144par0265	Thank you, Mr. President. We know that more youth centers will receive awards for the International ODTÜ Robot Days in TEKNOFEST. Unfortunately, our friend referred to youth centers as concrete buildings, and we think it's a matter of vision. When I look there, I see drones, and when I look there, I see young entrepreneurs. When I look, I see our new unicorns, and more, I see how our national technology move will actually reach more young people. Of course, I can't blame you for that, but I wish you'd look through this window. I want to thank our ministry as a teenager for always standing by every young but unconditional young man. I know that all young people will continue to stand by you without distinction. Thank you for listening. We expect the support of each group, our friends from all sides, our deputies from here because we think this youth issue should be a matter beyond parties, and I expect your support. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0149par0270	Mr. Fehmi Alpay Özalan... Here you go, Mr. Özalan.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0150par0273	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of our group on the budget for the 2021 Youth and Sports Ministry. I hereby salute you worthy MPs and our beloved nation.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0151par0275	Bravo, Captain!
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0150par0276	This budget is a domestic and national budget, a budget that values youth and athletes. This budget is a budget that hopes for the future as it heals the wounds of the past. (ARK PARTY) This budget is a budget that shares the tears of joy by our brothers and sisters in Arakan, while our brothers in Azerbaijan share the tears of joy. [[From the AK PARTY rows, they applaud the sound of the voice of the "Bravo" (Bravo).]] This budget is an important budget. It's a budget that crushes the head of terror, trusts the friend, inspires fear of the enemy, tells the oppressor to take the fall. Aylan and Moon are a budget for babies, orphans, widows, orphans, not just in our country, but to those seeking justice and law throughout the world. In short, this budget is a budget that serves humanity because it is a budget that helps more than 100 countries in the pandemic process without looking at religion, language, race, nationality. It's a budget for flying patients from thousands of miles away, not just in our own country, but in other countries that need help. [[From the AK PARTY rows, they applaud the sound of the voice of the "Bravo" (Bravo).]] May our budget be good for our country and for humanity. Therefore, this budget is an international budget, not a national budget. On this occasion, I would like to thank our beloved nation and our President, who has allowed us 19 times to prepare this budget. [[From the AK PARTY rows, they applaud the sound of the voice of the "Bravo" (Bravo).]] Mr. President, good lawmakers, sports is a universal field, sports is the ambassador of peace, sports is the language of one, sport is the brotherhood, sports is the principle of everyone. For this reason, we have equipped every city of our country with stadiums, swimming pools, gyms, courts, ski resorts, neighborhood sports and youth centers to encourage our young people into sports. If you don't have a sports facility infrastructure, you won't be able to make the moves you're going to make. We're working together on plumbing and athletic development. In international activities, we've had an infrastructure revolution to send out our glorious Turkish flag and train successful athletes to read our Istliklal Anthem.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0152par0283	Bravo.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0150par0284	In addition, we have raised the number of sports facilities in the 1500s to 3,700, and in addition, we have built 2,500 neighborhood-type sports fields.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0152par0285	Mashallah.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0150par0286	We've increased the number of licensed athletes from 280,000 to around 10 million.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0153par0288	The new Albanys are coming.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0150par0289	We have over a thousand athletes in our Olympic prep centers in Turkey. I hope there will be champions of the future among our brothers and sisters who sweat in these fields.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0154par0290	The alpays will come out in the future.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0150par0291	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, our youth is a youth based on the past and future of the nation, on national and spiritual values, on democracy, on law, on the nation's woes, on the joy of joy. Our young are our thrills, our horizons, our futures. It's a budget with faith in its chest, excitement in its heart, knowledge of the torch, respect for the past, and a greeting for the horse. We have targeted such a youth in our president's ritual and we are moving on to that goal step by step. A youth who is always on the side of justice and law, not a stone, a gun, a stick, and violence in his heart, but a youth with a book, a tie, and a reed, a thrill and a desire in his heart. We want youth that breeds Alparslans, Conquerors, Yavuz, Kuralites, Abdulhamites, Gazi Mustafa Kemaller, Hasan Tahyler, Necip Fasils, Arif Nihat Asia, Saint Sancars and Recep Tayyip Erdogans.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0155par0293	We don't know if we're at a football game! [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Give me an extension, Mayor. Give me five more minutes.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0156par0297	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0157par0298	My friend, on the day of your signal, you will walk, the people will walk after you. I bring you greetings from Hasan of Ulubat, who will be a flag to the constellations. You are the age when Fatih conquered Istanbul.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0158par0300	Read from Nazim, read from Nazim.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0157par0301	Young men, we will never command you, we will never dictate to you, we will never put you into the molds, we will work with you, and we will walk with you. When asked who is there, I am there without looking to the left." "Youth, youth, youth, youth, youth, youth, youth, youth, youth, youth, youth, youth, youth, youth, youth, youth, youth, youth, youth, youth, youth, youth, I have the time and the place is in my hands." "A youth whose root is forever, the branch is a youth with the flow of a system, the vecdine, the dialectics, the aesthetics, the knowledge, the understanding. [[From the AK PARTY rows, they applaud the sound of the voice of the "Bravo" (Bravo).]] [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] When we have opened a breach in the wall, is it holy? O wind of the bitch, blow from wherever you may be. My regards and greetings to all of you.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0159par0308	Mr. Ahmet Kılıç... Here you go, Mr. Sword.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0160par0311	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group on the budget of our V.A.'s precious MPs, the 2021th budget of our Ministry of Youth and Sports. At first, I salute you and our beloved nation, watching us at the beginning of the screens. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] As it is known, in our country, the proportion of our young to all population is around 16%. At this rate, we have the youngest population in European countries. Of course, having a young population is not going to mean anything if this enormous power is abandoned alone. AS AK PARTY, due to our emphasis on youth policies since our organization, we have mobilized our government's resources to offer opportunities for our young people to raise themselves in every sense. One of the most important steps to the development of our young people is our youth centers. These centers, the Ministry of National Education and universities, work in cooperation to provide skills that our young people need in their personal, social, and professional lives, apart from academic education and education. Up until yesterday, we were an unread country in the field of drones or drones, and today, thanks to a handful of people in the same area, we entered into the number-one countries of the world. Hopefully, we'll get a similar success in automotive, software, and other high-tech products. Is that enough? Of course, it's not enough, because we're in the goal and effort to continue to develop and move the potential of our country and our young people in the areas we count above efficiently. Our effort to run the technology revolution with our young people is a source of energy for the purpose of implementing this transformation. For this reason, under the Code Name 2023 Project, we provide young people with algorithms, etc., and mobile application development, electronics, drone production and use of robotic training. In three years, we've trained 87,579 young people in coding. With the Experiment Project, technology stars of the future are raised. In addition, many of our youth centres across the country have certified trainings, programmes co-organised with ISCUR, Applied Enterprises that we conduct together with KOSGEB. Dear lawmakers, we hear that from time to time opposition parties say they are not happy with the lives of young people, that they are unhappy. In fact, during the talks, we were amazed that some of our MPs who spoke to our General Assembly expressed that the country was in better shape in every sense in the 90s. Friends, the only positive thing about this country in the 90s is that it is now referred to as the time of those years.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0161par0318	Bravo.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0162par0319	Bravo.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0163par0320	Bravo.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0164par0321	In particular, we've come to the dorms today that provide hotel comfort from the days when students live in places where there are 8-10 students in each room in one bunk after the other, where they don't even have proper heating. In the old days, when they applied for a scholarship, let alone a student loan, our students faced rejection. Today, each of our students who apply is granted a student loan, and our student brothers and sisters who provide the necessary conditions are granted a scholarship. When the AK PARTY came to power, the $45 scholarship cost $550 today. We make these beautiful organizations because we always care about the future of our young people. WHEN the EC PARTY is called youth, it understands the future of this country, and it is not big on the problems of youth, and it strives to resolve these problems. In every province, sports complexes from the ground up are in our youth's service. From the services of our ministry, youth camps and expeditions, which have been an important motivation for our young people to gain vision and achieve new goals. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I hope to complete my speech before any matter is passed. Our people see it very well that the opposition who talks about young people, about justice, about human rights, about our young people at every turn. We see our youth as a guarantee of our future, working to ensure that both our young people's mental and physical conditions are at their best. For some opposition parties, it's just a tong they can use for youth, illegal formations and terrorist organizations. What they understand when it comes to freedom is that there is a way for these organizations to be able to come up with an easy man.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0165par0327	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0164par0328	Greetings to the mothers who have been on child watch for months in Diyarbakir.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0166par0330	Way to go, bravo!
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0164par0331	The support of our government, our nation is always with them. I would like to present another example of the positive influence of the youth policies of the EC PARTY: Under the rule of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, there were former youth issues that spoke for young people and made decisions for young people, all of whom were seniors. Today, at every party of our Parliament, young MPs are doing politics, representing the youth of our country, our young lawmakers. We're not just young people anymore, we're working for young people. At this point, I would like to thank our President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, who is the architect of this beautiful change in our House, on behalf of the young people of our country, for his confidence in our youth. [[From the AK PARTY rows, they applaud the sound of the voice of the "Bravo" (Bravo).]] I salute all my young brothers, and I salute our General Assembly. May our budget be a blessing.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0167par0336	Mr. Ahmet Star... Here you go, Mr. Star.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0168par0339	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, on behalf of our group as speakers of the State Department budget, I'd like to address some issues that fit the spirit of the environment. First of all, we end this year with a very happy and proud development of 2020. Hopefully, Azerbaijan's territorial integrity will be provided after 30 years. This is an unforgettable moment for us. Just as we could not forget that shame and bitterness in the 90s, we will not forget this triumph and this pride. Personally, I was a diplomat in another country in those years, and I can't forget what he said about the microphone, which he told us, which was a fugitive from Azerbaijan, why didn't you help us? Let's hope this time Armenia fulfills its commitments and chooses to be part of the equation in the region. Unfortunately, Armenia has always preferred to look at Moscow or Brussels and is stuck in the process; let's ask him to look at Ankara. Of course, a proud second development here is in the context of this conflict, where we call some of Turkey's brands, but now everyone sees Turkey's SIHA technology as a brand, and in all international forums, some say it's a subject of joy, some say it's a cause of complaint. Also, let's hope that Armenia, instead of fantasizing over extremes in the diaspora, will do so with the truth and needs of the region, so that the relationship between the peoples of Turkey and Armenians can be revived by history. Dear friends, the State Department, the Ministry that I come from, deserves this budget. In fact, there could have been more budgets, given the expansion of the number of missions, foreign currency and variations in the field of duty, but hopefully, as economic conditions develop, that will happen in the coming years. One thing: the performance of the epidemic. It's not easy, if you don't have so many missions, if you don't have the will, you can't take care of our citizens, you can't help other countries. I think it's an interpreter to everyone's feelings because we've all had expectations, demands from the Ministry, our embassies, our consulates. I'm very grateful and proud that they've all been welcomed. ▪ Why do you want a budget? You don't deserve it. When it comes to criticism, one of them is loneliness. I'm a professional diplomat, and I'm currently president of the AKPM Commission, and I'm a member of NATOPA. Now, we have issues, international forums, but this concept of loneliness doesn't really reflect the truth. There are situations in our immediate environment where Turkey's national interests, its vital interests are at odds, where you're alone, but these are necessary. But when you look at it as a whole, Africa, Latin America, when you look at the whole world, there's no such loneliness. Yeah, there's a lot of noise from against Turkey, but that's not the general case. Now, one of the issues is Cyprus, in the AKPM, in the European Union, in NATO, which has caused the claim of loneliness. So for many years, the Turkish Cypriot people have been exposed to an illegitimate life because of Greek Cypriot dissension. Turkey would now have to take a stand after the Annan Plan and the recent Crans-Montana failure. Troubles with him, criticisms, especially as a whole in the European Union, but we must resist. Before the formation of the European Union, there was the situation in Cyprus, then the conflict was clear, and the conflict in the eastern Mediterranean was clear; the Greek Cypriot part had this conflict before Greece entered. Something like that...
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0169par0347	Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0168par0348	...we'll face the problems we're about to face with a united hand. Especially in the parliamentary diplomacy, I expect this from our friends in the committees, the friendship groups. The other issue is that conflict is involved in unnecessary conflicts. Now, one thing, of course, is that we were criticized after Operation Cyprus. Look, there's been no acts of violence in Cyprus since then, there's been conflict, but there's been no conflict. The latest example is Libya. Our military advisors did a very good job there, Akin... before Turkey's invasion, the capital Tripoli was about to fall, where a genocide was about to take place, and we see it from the mass graves in the surrounding counties. At the moment, the hopes for peace in Libya are growing. Without our State Department, without diplomacy, it wouldn't have been possible to accomplish it in military terms alone. There are more issues, but we're running out of time, and in order not to abuse the President's endurance, I wish the Minister and the Ministry, our colleagues, a rich budget, a successful year.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0170par0352	Mr. Ahmet Berat Çonkar... Here you go, Mr. Konkar.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0171par0355	Mr. President, I've been sworn in on behalf of the AK PARTY Group on the budget of our State Department. I salute our holy nation and our Veterans Assembly. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] We also benefit from the effective governance benefits of the presidential government system in the field of foreign policy, and 2023 is moving towards our goals, and we are working hard to achieve our goals. In recent years, we have been closely observing that our foreign policy has been marked by significant achievements. Our Foreign Minister and valued Ministry employees perform very important tasks in implementing a national foreign policy based on human and universal values, which is central to the independence, rights and interests of our country. With the selfless leadership and zeal of our President and Foreign Minister, we defend our national interests most effectively in an uncertain and turbulent environment. Dear lawmakers, today the world is going through a comprehensive process of change and transformation, with its effects being felt in every area. In this process, serious global disruptions in political and economic areas are taking place, and the balance of power is being reshaped. In addition to major human losses of active, frozen and potential conflicts, we are at the heart of a geography facing problems such as forced migration, economic destruction, historical heritage and destruction of the environment. We are surrounded by major conflicts, especially the Syrian crisis that entered its 10th year. The solution to conflicts in our region and neighbors is naturally the priority of our foreign policy. As a matter of fact, the decisive and effective steps taken by Turkey in Libya, Syria, Iraq, have always been intended to open the way for the political solution, to ensure lasting and sustainable peace. The Karabak conflict is also a matter of difference in Turkey's commitment and leadership to a permanent solution. From the beginning of the conflict, Azerbaijan was given all the necessary support, including the diplomatic field. As a result, Azerbaijan has saved his occupied territory and has been declared and registered at the table and in the area where Karabagan is Azerbaijan. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Our national case is the solution of the Cyprus issue on the basis of political equality, and we are making all the bold and decisive steps necessary to protect the rights and interests of our country and of the Turkish Cypriots in the field, in the rights and interests of the countries in the region, as well as resources in the Eastern Mediterranean. Despite our country's calls for dialogue, the attitude of Greece, which continues to increase tensions as usual, and the unfair support of some European Union member states in all matters to Greece and South Cyprus, under the guise of EU solidarity, serves to deepen and unresolved issues in the region. Dear friends, for the past nine years, as a member of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly's Turkish Group, I have seen our country's importance and contribution to the alliance within NATO. Our country, among the first five countries to contribute the most to NATO operations and missions, is one of the top 10 allies to the NATO budget. Turkey is also actively contributing to the adoption of the alliance in the face of current threats and the assessment of NATO's future. We are working hard to make sure that Turkey's contribution to the alliance within the NATOPA group is better understood by all the environments. We argue that for 70 years the power of transatlantic security, the backbone of the alliance, is from solidarity, that this solidarity should not be worn down by artificial agendas, that it should not remain in the shadow of selfish and prejudicial EU solidarity. The preservation of our country's active power on the field and on the table, as it is on the inside, it must be our common goal to shine as a star on the outside as well as on the outside. It is incumbent on us, as the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, to stick together for this goal, to support our Foreign Minister on this road with an effective parliamentary degree. In all matters of our country's security and national interests, we expect opposition parties to refrain from explanations and attitudes that will strengthen the arguments and hands of our opponents and opponents. That's what national stances and true patriotism require.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0172par0365	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0171par0366	Dear lawmakers, we conduct an entrepreneurial and humanitarian foreign policy, both within the scope of the opportunities and capabilities we have increased in both diplomacy and defence and security areas, with the goal of securing security, peace and prosperity on a global level, both in our immediate geography. The evil centers that are uncomfortable with this dynamic should know that Turkey is greater than the world, which is based on peace and justice for humanity. In the expansion of our foreign policy horizon, I thank our President, our Foreign Minister, and the employees of all foreign political institutions of our state, who have worked closely to ensure that Turkey, which rose from Africa to Asia, Latin America to 248 foreign representations to the world, plays an active role in monitoring all progress on the global scale. With these feelings, I wish that the budget would be a blessing to our nation, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0173par0370	Mr. Ismail Emrah Karayel... Here you go, Mr. Karayel.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0174par0373	Mr. President, Congressmans, Dear Ministers, I salute you all. I've been promised the budget for the 2021 year of the European Union presidency. Turkey-European Union relations began in 1959, continued with the Ankara Agreement in 1963 and took its place today as the talks began in 2005. As of today, we're talking fifty-seven years of ups and downs in European Union relations. Yes, membership in the European Union is the strategic priority of our country, which includes steps taken, reforms being done and continuing to be done. In particular, however, the negative decisions that some member states of the European Union against our country have been seeking as part of their domestic policy purposes and their own foreign policy objectives have led to the start of a negative process between our country and the European Union. Negotiations with the European Union are being held under the update of the Customs Union, as well as under the title of the freedom of اvize. In particular, however, after Cyprus's integration -- I think it is intentional -- by the European Union -- we are facing political blockades, and the European Union continues to bring it to our attention at all times. As Turkey, we believe that if Turkey understands the importance of its membership in the European Union, talks with Turkey will be accelerated and the will for reforms in Turkey will be supported. We, as chairman of the Commission for Mixed Parliamentary Commission on Turkey-European Union, are speaking at every opportunity at meetings with members of the Council of Presidents of the European Parliament about how important Turkey's membership in the European Union is. Yes, of course, Turkey's foreign policy is not just the European Union, and it is not just the European Union. Under the leadership of our president and with the zeal of our Foreign Minister, Mr. Mevlüt Sargeglu, we conduct a multi-layered and active foreign policy. Since the day we were founded as the EC PARTI, we have continued to stand in front of the oppressors and the oppressed in the world, as our national poet, our sovereign poet Mehmet Akif Supposedly said, and I can't tell you to ignore them. I can't tell you, I'll pick up, I'll chew, I'll pick up, I'll pick up, I'll pick up the right. (AK PARTY applause) Especially from Somalia to Arakans, from Palestine to Libya, we continue to take care of the oppressed at all times. Since the beginning of the Libyan crisis, Turkey has expressed that this process can only be resolved through political negotiations. In this sense, we're going through a very important political process today in Libya. Turkey is taking all the necessary steps to maintain stability in Libya, as well as to ensure that our country's achievements in Libya are not lost. One of the main issues is the liberation of Azerbaijan's occupied lands, as well as the operation launched by Azerbaijan, in which we, as Turkey, understand the two states as one nation, and be with Azerbaijan however the Azerbaijan wants. In this sense, we praise God for the liberation of the land of Karabakh, which has been occupied for thirty years and for allowing us to see it. [[Applause from the AK PARTY and MHP rows]] Again, one of the main issues is Greek requirements in the eastern Mediterranean. Greece demands 40,000 square kilometers of sea space for an island just 2km from our country, 580km away. It has been expressed at every opportunity, not at every opportunity, but at the table and in the field, where 40,000 kilometers, 1 square centimetres of our sea area, or a drop of water can't be applied to it. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Again, regarding the opening of the closed Marashan in Cyprus, all rights are expressed here in the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus, where the Greek Cypriot part has no rights or authority for this area. We want to express in particular that the two-state solution by the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus is very important in this sense. Yes, the liberalisation of the Palestinian territories under Israeli occupation is very important to us. In that sense, I would like to say once again that we did not accept the American peace plan, that we rejected Israel's plans for the invasion of Palestine, that we rejected the steps he took regarding Jerusalem's status, and that we also rejected his aggressive behavior regarding the Harem-i Sharif.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0175par0385	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0174par0386	Yes, lawmakers, I would like to point out that Islamophobia, particularly in Europe, is on the rise. I invite all countries of Europe and the world to take steps in this matter. In this context, I would like to say once again from the seat of our House that we will give the harshest answer, not to the Prophet Ekrem Lord, who was sent as a mercy to the worlds, the faces of the worlds, the faces of water, and especially to the pit creatures who did so in France. [[Applause from the AK PARTY and MHP rows]] We thank the President for his decision to open Ayasofya on July 24th. This decision, which is an ointment for the eighty-six - year - old wound in our nation's heart, has pleased us greatly. As the Republic of Turkey, from Asia to Europe, from America to Africa, it says that we will continue our multilayer and active policy with the support of our nation and the leadership of our President, wishing our 2021 budget to be a blessing, I salute our great Assembly.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0176par0391	Mr. Vildan Yilmaz Gürel... Here you go, Mr. Gürel.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0177par0394	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group in honor of budget talks by the Turkish Accreditation Agency, the State Department's relevant organisation. I salute the General Assembly and our beloved nation with respect and conversation. The Turkish Accreditation Agency (TÜRKAK) is the only institution in our country that provides a very important act, such as imports or exports, evaluation, auditing and documenting the international standards of its products and services, which constitutes the basis of trade relations between countries. In many areas where we don't even realize that there are healthy food supplies, maintenance and reliable vehicles, that we don't even know how to get in or out of the elevator, that we're not aware of, it's indirectly touching people's daily comfort and safety. These are very important factors that contribute to the construction of a prosperous Turkey; there are critical traces in Turkey's economy, industry and social life. In the Covid pandemic process, Turkak met the need with urgency to provide tests and documentation of mask, disinfectant and disinfectant devices. From vaccine and drug development issues, the Good Laboratory Applications, a precondition for the necessary development and design operations, gave the Procedural Proclamation to three labs just prior to the pandem, and in this area, the vaccine, the drug development activity in our country, has allowed the world to be satisfied by signing an agreement on mutual acceptance of data. (EC PARTY Applause) The point is a great success for Turkey. Innovative products, such as the terror dream of the terrorist organization in Turkey, such as the drone, the IRA, the drone, and the waste systems, have completed preparations for the accreditation service, which is a prerequisite for their producers showing up in the international market for all kinds of equipment and materials. In this way, Turkey has also contributed to the industry in defence and aviation, where we have been able to get out and accelerate rapidly in recent years. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] As of December 2020, the number of companies the Turkish Cypriots are acquainted with is 1,841. Today, the number of accordions, diversity and human resources are located among the first five in Europe and 10 in the world. This success, of course, is the result of the AK PARTY's power and policies. With that respect, I would like to express my gratitude to our President, the architect of Turkey's 18-year-old foreign policy. (AC PARTY applauses) Because the world that began with Davos' exit was greater than the world. From Eastern Mediterranean to Cyprus, Syria to Azerbaijan, our foreign policy, which has been applied in a wide geography, is our pride today. We reflect the entrepreneurial spirit of the Turkish nation to our foreign policy; we follow a strong, domestic and national policy on the field and on the table. The work of TÜRKAK, who has worked as a guide for the rhetorical service and has reached out to Turkish industry and new markets, including China, South Korea, Kosovo, Tunisia, the Gulf States, and the countries that have reached out for it. In addition, the current market volume, which has been passed abroad by our local and national organisations, including tests, medical tests, greenhouse gas services, is now 20 to 25 billion dollars. In a nutshell, international policies of the Republic of Turkey are a factor in the development and impact of Turkey's government, while the Turkish government serves foreign affairs policies of the Republic of Turkey. I'd like to thank the Minister and his companions for their foreign policy vision, effort and success. As the EC PARTY, we will continue to maintain Turkish foreign policy at home and on the peace axis of the world, we are determined. We will continue to talk to our nation about our presidency, our system, our actions and policy and our reason for our existence, our vision of 2023, 2053 and 2071. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] We don't expect support and appreciation from the opposition, which works with foreign actors, which is connected to the other end of the line, like a call center, which we don't see contributing to our country's domestic politics or foreign policy.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0178par0406	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0177par0407	However, lawmakers, since budget talks have begun, we have been dealing with an opposition that has sabotaged the process entirely from political ethics and facts, even though we have taken the authority to make the 19th budget under the Gazi Assembly. Accreditation, as you know, is literally a service that has the right infrastructure and quality. In this minor, the heart wants that the main opposition and its partners in this country, who are doing politics, also have a political accordion.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0179par0408	Bravo!
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0177par0409	So that the principal principles of the policy that gives confidence through this Akreditation can be acted on principles such as honesty, backbone, transparency. That's what I expect from the opposition as a member of this country.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0179par0410	Bravo!
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0177par0411	The nation's budget wishes that our 2021 budget be fruitful, that our State Department and its institutions continue to make us proud, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0180par0413	Mr. President, can you promise me something from the youth quota here, Mr. President?
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0179par0414	No, sir. That's not gonna happen.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0181par0415	Yeah, we want promises, too.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0180par0416	Mr. President, because electricity has been cut off in Şanlıurfa Province, Suruç district, citizens are gathering in front of the village's electric transformer and praying for rain prayers to come, and now, because these electricity are out, one of them is not running water to the village; two, students who are taking advantage of remote education can't benefit from education.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0182par0417	Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0183par0418	Mr. President, can this happen? He's sabotaging it, it can't happen!
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0180par0419	While the two ministers represent the government are here, we ask that this matter be dealt with. Thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0184par0421	Mr. Tanal, you've been involved in both my profession and the fact that I'm a representative. I thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0180par0422	Thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0184par0423	Ladies and gentlemen, the Justice and Development Party Group has completed its talks.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0185par0424	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0184par0425	However, I'll make a promise to Mr. Nightingale because of the bullying. Here you go, Mr. Nightingale.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0185par0430	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, Aydın, as Herod said, are the most beautiful earth under the sky. Aydın is a beautiful city with oil in its mountains, and honey in its plains, as Çelebi. But it's political choice. In AKP's 18 years of power, Aydın is the province of agriculture; in the cusp figs, in olives and chestnuts, Aydın is the 1st in Turkey, the 1st in agriculture. In its 18 years of political preference, the AKP has used its preference in favour of the air, water, and unsupervised JES (Jeothermal power plants) of Aydın under the name of energy. There are 28 JES and 18 JES are currently planned.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0186par0431	We made the biggest dams and irrigation canals to Aydın.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0185par0432	56 per cent of Turkey's JES have been found in Aydın. Do you guys know what comes out of their chimneys when these JES have not been inspected? Carbon dioxide, hydrogen sulfide, argon, ammonia, nitrogen, methane, radon gases spread into the atmosphere.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0186par0433	Minister, if we hadn't done the Adnan Menderes Dam, the land of Aydın would have dried up, and there would have been no agriculture left in Aydın.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0185par0434	Because of these gases, citizens are breathing hydrogen sulfide. Unfortunately, cancer deaths have risen to one-quarter in the light. In Aydın, the citizen says that we now want to live in good health. We -- we don't want to breathe hydrogen sulfide gas -- to those who say put on a mask -- so the political preferences of power over the JES have made it possible to end the ecosystem, not in favour of the air, water, and soil of Aydın.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0186par0435	Congressman, 150 years ago, even the dams you expected from Sultan Abdulaziz have been made by the AK PARTI and Recep Tayyip Erdogan.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0187par0436	Who built the Adnan Menderes Dam?
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0185par0437	Dear lawmakers, we say that the licenses of the JES (JES) who are not working in accordance with the legislation by making the necessary audits, by making the measurements, will be revoked, and the CED decisions will be annulled. Why don't you do it? Why can't the unsupervised people... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Let me finish, Mr. President. I'll greet you.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0188par0440	Thank you, Mr. Nightingale.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0189par0441	Checking online.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0190par0442	Mr. Solomon, whatever it is that you're against, it's for the good of that nation, and it's for the good of it, and we will continue to do it, and we will continue to serve Aydın.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0191par0443	Look, Mr. Bekir says he's being audited online.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0192par0444	Congressmans, with the pardon of our Group Vice-Presidents, there have been several explosions of natural gas on the baneman. I think he needs a warning, so I'm going to make a moment of my word to the two deputies of our Butler province. Here you go, Mr. Yum.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0193par0448	Thank you, Mr. President. Yesterday, after the explosion of the main gas entry pipe by mistake in our municipality's excavations, unfortunately, natural gas was completely cut off in our province. From here, after our request to the Minister of Energy in particular, teams from a large number of surrounding provinces came to the ministers and began to restart the natural gas process and the regulators. Last night it was until morning, and in the morning it began to give natural gas to the Ataturk neighborhood. After being given natural gas, the explosion occurred in 2 houses at Yunus Emre Street and 2, Şeker Street. Unfortunately, we've got a large number of wounded, five or six, and we're afraid he'll be dead, so I hope he doesn't. From here, I wish our wounded a speedy recovery.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0192par0451	Complete, sir.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0193par0452	Thank you, Mr. President. However, I would like to warn our citizens specifically. My dear countrymen, the city is being resupplyed. I specifically state what must be done for our safety of lives and property: First, let's make sure the stoves are closed, so let's make sure the stoves are turned off. Make sure our citizens don't open the natural gas valves themselves. We specifically request frequent airing of the interiors of the houses. I specifically request that the unsub call 187 emergency calls in any case. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0194par0456	Mr. Sun...
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0195par0458	Thank you, Mr. President. Because of the natural gas explosion that occurred at two different points at the footman's office around 1 p.m. today, I would like to say that the first step is to get well with our fellow banelings. The day before, a natural gas pipe was accidentally punctured at the footman's house. It's been repaired by natural gas. These clocks need to be reactivated in the re-entry of natural gas. And here, the natural gas distribution company warned all its subscribers -- we have 80,000 subscribers -- to turn off your natural gas clocks, and don't open them until we get there. However, the explosion occurred at two separate points -- perhaps because our citizens did not have any information or forgot about it -- or could have been for other reasons -- as a result of the explosion. There was no one here from God in the first explosion, but four of our people were injured.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0196par0462	Finish your words.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0195par0463	There was one person in the other explosion, and there were two injured, including one inside and one outside. For now, thank God there are no life-threatening risks, and their treatments continue. We hope they get healthy as soon as possible. I'm just saying, get back to my banelings from here. Make sure you follow the advice of the natural gas distribution company, do as they say, and keep your natural gas valves closed, air your homes often. The company also explained that our other people who used natural gas did not need to be afraid, to turn off their natural gas, and almost a large portion of our city was given natural gas. I hope we don't have to go through this again, so I'm just saying, "Get well back to our fellow banelings," and I salute you.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0197par0467	Mr. Beştaş...
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0198par0468	From the bench, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0197par0469	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0198par0472	Thank you, Mr. President. Yeah, it's nice to have our young congressman talk here, really, and it's nice to have young people working politics. And it's hard to disagree with your wishes that youth's problems should be political. But why are the young ones happy? I'll turn the other side of the locket: why are the young people unhappy? Today we want to discuss the unhappiness of young people because the passports and luggage of young people are ready, and they want to go abroad at any moment. In a survey conducted by the Young Executive and Business People's Association, 40 per cent seek jobs, 64 per cent of young people are ready to work only for food and road expenses. Yeah, you can't see the real problems of young people. What are these real problems? Now, young unemployment has 30 per cent, KYK debt, no appointments, young people who get high scores cannot settle in their rightful places because of the torpedo. You've given up hope for the future. There is another survey: What problem would you solve if you were running the country? 46.7 per cent said unemployment and employment, 8 per cent said it was worth it. 7 per cent said it was justice. Would you like to go out of the country? 76.2 per cent of the question is definitely yes. 14 per cent said yes, but if I have the same conditions, I will stay in my country. Would you leave if you were given a municipality? 64 per cent of the question I would leave. 14 per cent said I would stay.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0199par0476	Why can't he document them? Where did Ms. Meral hear about this? Who did he say that to? So we had it done, and it turned out the other way around.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0198par0477	Yes, 69,301 students are under arrest, according to the Justice Department's response to the question motion. Now, our young deputy said that sports facilities and youth centers have been opened. Yeah, these sports facilities and youth centers are opening up, and they're all assigned to advocacy foundation, and if you're not an ally, you don't even have the right to go to the facility in the neighborhood.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0200par0480	That's not an answer, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0201par0481	Complete.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0198par0482	According to synthetic drug anti-drug figures, Europe is the 1st in Europe and most young people are unfortunately addicted to drugs, in terrible proportions. All our motions for this have been rejected. The unemployment rate in young women is not included. With sexist policies... 1 million young women with two years of college graduates are unemployed and the government's proposal is to marry them early. I'm telling you the numbers of the Young Unemployed platform. Yes, it's a budget that sacrifices the future of young people to government cars, private planes, palaces. Indeed, let's not separate the young. Now, let the young people speak their minds here, but let's not forget for a moment that 70,000 of the young people who speak their mind are in prisons.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0202par0485	Stop being categorized, why in a youth prison, in a criminal prison, for God's sake!
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0198par0486	Finally, he spoke of the violins being given. It's nice to be given violins, of course, but their violins are also given by the foundation. Let the violins be provided by foundations, so that you young people may have hope, hope, hope, and trust in the future. I say this is the duty of power, and I thank you. [[Applause from HDP rows]] I didn't pick on anyone, Mr. Turan.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0202par0489	I'm glad you didn't pick on me. The young are with us, praise be to God.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0203par0490	The young people are very happy.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0204par0491	That's not what the polls say at all.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0205par0492	That's not what the polls say.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0206par0493	I know those polls, they've been saying that for 18 years.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0207par0494	What poll, what poll? The story is a survey. Where are the polls?
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0208par0495	Mr. Ibrahim, all the polls, all the polls.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0209par0496	You've even lost young people from the AKP.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0207par0497	We're doing the poll.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0210par0498	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0211par0499	Mr. Altay...
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0212par0500	Mr. Engin, what happened?
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0210par0501	E, there's teasing.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0213par0502	Mr. Mahmut, there's nothing like that in our polls. You have the story poll.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0214par0503	You don't read it. You don't read it.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0213par0504	Yeah, forget it!
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0215par0505	Even the young people of the AKP have vanished, melted, and left.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0216par0506	A respected orator who just spoke has accused us of collaborating with our party, with the outside altars.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0213par0507	We have the actual polls, where's the poll? That's not true, those polls, those polls, they're not true.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0217par0508	Oh, come on!
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0218par0509	Yeah, well, it's true what you're saying, because those polls are wrong, and the public is wrong, and you're the only one who's right.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0217par0510	Everyone's saying it wrong, they're telling the truth.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0219par0511	By God, we've got the real polls, we've got the right polls, they're all made up.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0220par0512	Friends, this is Mr. Altay speaking.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0221par0513	Here you go, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0222par0516	Thank you very much, Mr. President, and I salute you and the Grand General Assembly. Mr. President, we're talking budget. Once again, I want to underline a view that I see in this budget: the budget of the opposition, the budget of the CHP. Speaking on behalf of the EC PARTY, we did this to people, and we couldn't do this for this reason, and instead of saying, "Opporting the CHP from right to left and from the other opposition parties," they try to avoid the budget. And there's no way to avoid this budget, because look, we're talking budgets, it's day 8; I've been yelling for a week, and I've been hogging my voice. The minimum wage commission is still running, we're talking about budgets; my brother, let these people breathe a little bit, there's no way they can smile a little bit, but let them smile a little bit about this minimum wage, and you can say what we think is the truth as a party. We said, "This is the truth." Unfortunately, we didn't hear a word about it from the EC PARTI. I'm going to come to this outside altar, and there's a lot to be said. Again, I would like to point out that it is not treason to criticize the EC PARTY; it is not treason not to vote against the AK PARTY, to oppose the AK PARTY, to not pledge allegiance to the AK PARTY. I'll tell you what treason is a little later, or I'll tell you if there's any criticism at the point of being an external altar device, but I've seen something else in this budget: for the first time in 18 years, we've been budgeting here, we've sent a lot of greetings to Recep Tayyip Erdoğan, Mr. President, and sometimes you're confusing the business, Recep Beyi, you're criticizing Mr. President. I'll give one example to an AK PARTY spokesman: "We will never dictate to the young people." He said, "We don't think it's right to dictate anything to the young people." He said, "I don't think it's right, but in Turkey, if there's a point of dictating political youth, it's an order of Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan's spiteful and religious generation, which is in the memory of all of us and everyone else, it's an order. (CHP clapping in rows) Here's to young people if you're looking for a line.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0223par0519	What did he push, what did he push?
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0222par0520	Now, I'm going to respond to criticism on the matter of the extremities, but I'll tell you this...
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0224par0522	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0222par0523	Again: See, there are problems with 500,000 people -- and the footman -- when the gas is out, and the electricity of 123,000 families is out, and the right to give Tunisia 5 million is to eat, and the right to an orphan is to eat, and that is incompatible with the values of the nation. To go to the feet of those who are involved in the deaths of 36 soldiers is to cooperate with the outside altars, and to remain silent about the fact that the army is to be placed in the head of the Turkish Armed Forces is to be associated with external altars; to be deceived by Obama to dive into Syria, and to one day to become a tool to the outer pyramid cannons, stuck between the instructions of the United States and Russia. Dear friends, once again, we're talking about the State Department budget today; we need to agree on 83 million in Turkey, and no one is less patriotic about this than you. 83 million of the 83 million living in Turkey depend on their country as much as Recep Tayyip Erdogan, even more than he does. [[Applause from CHP rows]] [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] You can't cover your own flaws, your own sins -- not in terms of lawmakers -- by saying to the nation, to the opposition, to the opposition, that you cooperate with the outside altars.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0225par0529	Thank you, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0222par0530	You can't get away from the sad painting that you've thrown into the nation by shouting at the values of the nation. In the first election, I hope it will happen very soon -- the people will show you the right answer for your sins.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0225par0531	Thank you, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0222par0532	Thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0226par0534	Tell the United States something to your deputy who complained about Turkey; he demanded buffalo, buffalo!
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0222par0535	It's the bastard who demands buffalo!
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0226par0536	Look at his speech!
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0222par0537	You look! What am I supposed to do if you can't understand what you're reading?
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0226par0538	That's exactly what he said.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0222par0539	You're the tiller!
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0226par0540	It's the same bastard who demands manda.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0227par0541	He's just sitting there talking to everybody, that's not true.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0228par0542	Here you go, Mr. Turan.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0229par0545	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Mr. Engin spoke in a more calm manner, and I honestly don't understand why you were so nervous earlier today.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0230par0547	I'm not nervous.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0229par0548	I'm inviting him for a cup of tea next time he takes a break, and I'm inviting him to calm down.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0230par0549	I've given my calmest speech.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0229par0550	This budget law is not just any law; it's a law to work together, to be discussed together. In the 70-minute speech of the CHP, despite a number of claims we thought were not true, he didn't even answer.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0230par0551	Name one, name one, name one, name one!
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0229par0552	... It's a waste of time to have so many responses after a little criticism.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0230par0553	Give me one! That's not true. Nor is that true.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0231par0554	Mr. Altay, please...
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0229par0555	I blame an experienced person like you for trying to interrupt us.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0230par0556	You don't just sit there...
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0229par0557	I'll answer, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0230par0558	You're top of the list for the Group Vice Presidents.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0229par0559	And put your mask back on.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0230par0560	You're top of the list for the Group Vice President. Name one claim that isn't true.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0229par0561	Dear friends, he just said, Mr. President, that Tayip Erdoğan spoke of raising a vindictive and religious generation.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0230par0562	He's said it a hundred times...
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0229par0563	Don't do this, don't do this.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0230par0564	Are you telling Mr. Recep?
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0229par0565	You're lying, you're starting to believe it, it's wrong.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0232par0567	That's right.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0229par0568	Look, Mr. Erdogan said that in the process of rationalisation, after the imam-gays were shut down, there were errors in the fight for democratisation in the political history of this country. I have a request to raise a religious generation. He told us to make a religious request, but it's your testimony. Where do you have the word "dindar" and "hatred"? Friends, a leader has come to his senses in his most transparent form, and you say, "Let's raise a non-religious generation." Who wanted a grudge in this country, who wanted a spiteful generation? Don't do that, Mr. Altay, for an experienced person like you, it would never be appropriate for young people to take a violent and religious approach. Second: AK PARTY didn't do anything, AK PARTY acted like the opposition party. Have mercy, have mercy! We complain about not being able to explain what was done.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0233par0571	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0229par0572	The other day -- in the nail -- we thought it was his first joke -- you had a deputy who said, "From here to this table, the investments made by PRPP" and showed a roll of paper; he showed a ten -- from this chair to this 90-year-old party. Look, Mr. Altay, if we try to explain what we're doing from here in a simple way, in a roll of paper like yours, it'll be the road from here to Karabakh, to Libya, to Azerbaijan.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0234par0574	Which way, which way...
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0229par0575	It leads to Marmarah, and to Eurasia, and to Çanakkale. How's that for an approach? The opposition we know is missing from the budget, so add this. What do you mean? You put in a roll of paper, you shake a potato, you throw in an eggplant. This opposition is cheap, simple and false.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0235par0576	You do the right thing when it comes to it.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0229par0577	See, if a party alone is in power for 18 years, it's not just that party's success. I'm just gonna talk to her and make sure she's stable...
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0236par0579	Mr. President, what part of the factory did he make?
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0229par0580	Mr. President, if you'll excuse me for one more moment, with the permission of Engin Bey... If you don't mind, Mr. Engin...
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0237par0582	Yeah, yeah, no, you're welcome, of course, and thank you for picking on me.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0229par0583	Mr. President, I think they've given me permission. I'd like another minute.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0238par0584	But we all agreed three minutes.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0239par0585	Mr. President, you haven't made a promise to the President of Engin.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0240par0586	He didn't give it to Mr. Engin now.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0238par0587	But we all agreed.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0241par0588	I'll come down if you don't want me to. I need a minute, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0242par0590	Here you go, Mr. Turan.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0241par0591	Mr. President, I didn't really want to say anything after the CHP Group's speech, but after the AK PARTY Group speech, Mr. Altay spoke so much, I had to. My final sentence is that we don't call any party in Turkey that criticizes foreign policy, as you say to any party that criticizes our own decisions. We believe that 83 million -- in principle -- are patriots in this country, we want that, but as a citizen of this country -- let me say it again -- I have a problem with our country, the president of the opposition party, being the headliner of Greece.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0243par0594	It's not true!
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0241par0595	It's not the way it is, it's not the way it is, it's the way you rebel. As we know it, the Ataturcist, nationalist, nationalist leader of the nationalist party, is the headline to Greece in the form of "Bravo!" whose party should most be disturbed by the Deputy Leader of the Group. That's why we rebel, or anyone can criticize what we've done, anyone can say the same thing.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0244par0596	Why don't you refuse to insult the president of the opposition party?
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0241par0597	I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0245par0599	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0246par0600	Mr. Altay...
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0245par0601	He accused me of lying.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0247par0602	Don't mention it...
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0248par0603	You have a lot of experience. He said so, but he honored it.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0249par0604	Here you are, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0250par0606	The Republican People's Party's performance in budget talks has been known to disturb the EC PARTY. I also want to thank our Ahmet Kaya friend. There, written on paper, it tours the world three times from here, what the Republican People's Party has done. He goes around the world six times with what you're selling, I'll tell you that. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Now, you do politics, we do, so we have an answer for every promise. Let's start with this matter of Greece: Me and Mr. President, as the party, we perceived the landing of a war helicopter on the Roseline-A ship as if it had landed in Izmir Konak Square; that's the way it is. Since the President General... Mr. Erdogan has decided everything in Turkey, it is a grave painting that Turkey cannot answer the application for a search warrant to Turkey under agreements; that is what the President General is referring to. Our rebellion is that you cannot prevent the landing of a war helicopter on that ship. You haven't been able to reach Mr. President; Mr. Secretary of State here, there's the Home Secretary, there's a lot of ministers, there's the Minister of Defense. So in Turkey you can say that a war helicopter, soldier of the hand, German, Greek, Italian will land and Turkey won't say that you can't go down; you can't go down in shame. The Greek press has written with Kılıçdaroglu. You can say, "It's a shame indeed, it's a shame! (HIP rows) To land that helicopter on that ship, to conduct it -- what is the fault of the MPs -- is the fault of the EC PARTI President, President Erdogan, and his cabinet. Mr. Secretary of State is here, so let him come and do something to convince the House. Five hours... On November 22, we learn from foreign media, on November 22nd, Foreign Affairs makes a statement on November 23rd, and on November 24th, the Ministry of National Defence makes a statement. Moreover, the statements of the State Department and the Ministry of National Defence do not match.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0249par0610	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0250par0611	Mr. Turan, you can't come up here and hang on to your guilt and your sins. Look, let me tell you something, to the polemics... you know what people are, people? Did you get an MRI? You've been in MRI, you've been in C.T., of course, God doesn't need it. In my eyes, people are MRI devices, and the politician is a patient in them; he reads inside, out, brain, heart, intention, every single one of them. So, here, with the false envy... I told you specifically that you lied to me, and then you picked on me...
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0251par0612	People have been doing C.T.s for 18 years, 18 years.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0250par0613	... That's how you get out of it, making fun of people's minds, their state... You're saying he doesn't offer concrete suggestions. My minimum wage offer is concrete, and yours is obvious? Is it obvious? My concrete suggestion is: whether the deceased health workers are martyrs, Covid is a professional disease, and the additional performance rates are not in the figures people will be ashamed of, I'm telling you, don't give the ambulance driver $7. What are your concrete suggestions? Come here, answer them, come and answer them, don't lie like you just said. Here, don't tease me!
tbmm-2020-12-14sit02spe0252par0616	I'm taking a 20-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit03spe0252par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Third Session of the 31st Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will resume negotiations with the Central Management Budget Law Proposal of 2021 and the Central Management Law of 2019, where we left off. 1) Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry 2021 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) Forest General Directorate 2021 Central Management Budget 2) Forest General Directorate 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) State Water Affairs General Directorate 2021 Central Management Budget 2) State Water Affairs General Directorate 2019 Central Management Final Account M) METEOROLOGY GENIORITY [[Continue]] 1) The General Directorate of Meteorology 2021 Central Management Budget 2) The General Directorate of Meteorology 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkey's Water Institute Central Management Budget for 2021 2) Turkey's Water Institute Final Account for Central Management 2019 1) The Ministry of Youth and Sports 2021 Central Management Budget 2) Youth and Sports Ministry Final Account for Central Management in 2019 1) State Department Central Management Budget for 2021 2) The State Department Final Account for Central Management in 2019 1) The Central Management Budget of 2021, President of the European Union 2) Central Management Final Account for the President of the European Union 2019 ÜRK AKRUDITASYON BUILDING [[Continue]] 1) Turkish Accreditation Agency Central Management Budget for 2021 2) Turkish Accreditation Institution 2019 Central Management Final Account The commission is in place. Now, our first speaker of the Good PARTY Group is Mr. Fahrettin Yoshüsh. Here you go, Mr. Uphill.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit03spe0253par0040	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Good Party about the budget of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry. I salute you all. As it is known, this week is Indian property week. A week we used to celebrate when we were kids, but then we forgot. While our wish, our Minister of Agriculture, is here, the Native Property Weeks are celebrated with enthusiasm and national awareness, as they were when we were children. And on this occasion, I'd like to repeat that beautiful thing we said when we were children: "Every Turk must use it, the property of a native Turk." [[A round of applause from the good PARTY and CHP rows]] Dear lawmakers, our country is a very important country at the point of agriculture and livestock, but with the power of the EC PARTY, agriculture and livestock have gone backwards in our country. In particular, in 2002, the share of agriculture in GDP dropped from 10.3 per cent to 6.4 per cent in 2019. If it had continued to be an illegal domestic product in 2002, which is 10.3 per cent, we would have had $440 billion in agricultural income in 2019. According to 2002, the growth rate of agricultural product increased by 7.5 in 2019 to 12 times the GDP. As you can see here, we haven't given our agriculture, our animalism, the necessary support. Of course, the low agricultural supply has also been reflected in the agricultural sector's growth rates. The agricultural sector grew by 2.7 per cent in 2003-2019, when the EC PARTY was in power. After the presidential government was introduced, the growth rate went further and further down, and the average growth in 2018-2019 was reduced to 2.5 per cent. The loss of agricultural goods, low growth rates, and the importer policy of the EC PARTY have made our country a net importer in agriculture. In 2009-2019, our imports of agriculture and livestock were $105 billion. In this period, $27 billion is open. Imported foreign currency has been lost, and the farmer has not been supported. The country's farmer was given $135 billion in support during 2003-2019, while 59 per cent of this support was imported to foreign farmers. [[A round of applause from the good parties]] The support for the producer of Article 21 of Agriculture Law 5488, issued in 2006, cannot be less than 1 per cent of the illegitimate national body. Despite the decree, your ministry has, unfortunately, never given our farmer the right amount of this year, this year, 2020, but has also set aside 22 billion budgets in 2021. I'm so sad to tell you this, economics, inflation, it's worth the farmer, it's all forgotten. So the farmer, his cattlemen, our villager, unfortunately, the power is out of the question. Dear lawmakers, our agricultural sector, which receives 18.2 per cent of the employment, can only receive 6.4 per cent of the national income. Those who rule the country love to compare it with 2002, so let me do a comparison. When you came to power in 2002, our farmers' total debt was $2.6 billion, which is now up to 135 billion euros, so you set a record after a record. In 2002, our farmers' total income was $37.2 billion, and now it's up to 307 billion euros -- so, the debt/receive rate -- rose to 43 percent in 2020. These figures indicate that according to 2002, the debt of our farmers, peasants, feeders has increased by sixfold. Today, farmers who can't buy seeds, who can't plant their fields, who can't feed their animals, how much curse the manufacturers can give you, they're 100% right! [[A round of applause from the good parties]] Once again, agriculture - food - was understood to be important because of pandemic contamination that has affected the entire world. Mr. President, we shouldn't have any land left unscathed. Our Minister of Agriculture and Forests assured our producers on 22 April 2020, that no one should be troubled; that your harvest is in the field, in the greenhouse; and that your meat and milk will not be in your possession, if necessary, we will take it. And at the point where we're here today, that's what's in the air, and as always, our manufacturers are left at the mercy of the merchants. What's sadder is that in the 2021 budget, the grant funds are only $22 billion. Even 14 years of inflation, unfortunately, has not been increased by ignoring it. In 2021, you should have at least $48 billion in support and grants to farmers and feeders, 2020, according to informal domestic revenues, but you're only offering 0.45 percent. Mr. Secretary, I ask you, why don't you restructure our farmers' debt? You're still allowing our farmers to cut off their power fees in irrigation, to cut off their TRT share; why don't the farmer, the peasant's electricity bills pay every six months or at harvest time, as they used to? When I was a kid, I used to have electricity money in my village every six months. What happened to you? You know, the old one, 2002, the old one? Dear lawmakers, a 50-cent increase to the milk manufacturer in 13 months is not enough. Besides, the raw milk producers say, Mr. Minister, listen well: we sell milk, it cuts off from us. It's just a burden for us. We have no business with the stock market, we pay the stock market, we pay the blockage on it. So it says that our milk manufacturer says that all the prices we've been given don't come into our pocket. Before entering, the road money, the stock money, the blockage is being cut off. In our country, the milk/food parite is supposed to be about 1.5 kilograms of food per liter, while it has now fallen below 1. And our feeders are no better than our milkmen. No one's heard the feeders' cries. The fact that you've recently raised the price of meat from 34 TL to 36 TL, doesn't solve the problem, Mr. Secretary; the cost of 1 kilogram of meat to the manufacturer is between 38 and 40 TL. Karkas should be raised to at least 40 TL -- which is not enough -- to buy meat and milk. So if you don't leave our feeder at the mercy of the merchant, if you don't increase prices and buy it at the Meat and Milk Foundation, these prices -- the prices you're charging -- unfortunately, don't mean anything. Dear lawmakers must be appointed agricultural engineers, food engineers and veterinary physicians in order to increase efficiency in agriculture and livestock and to be done intensively. I'm walking around in Konya. In our counties, I'm asking the villager, the villager, the farmer, do you know him at all? There's no vet. Sir, is there an agricultural engineer? No, what happened is he works there like an office clerk. Why? I ask them, why do you work like office officers? There's no man to make these papers, says, but there's no minister who sees them, hears them, feels them, who rules the country. Especially the food engineers. We're all poisoned, we're miserable, there's an inspection? No, that's Hakke! Now, valued lawmakers, for the year 2021 in the Chamber of Agriculture Engineers, the year 2021 in which our country will be a year of frustration for the agricultural sector. The 2021 supports to the farmers have ended the age of wonder, zeal, patience. This is actually the last word spoken. Dear lawmakers, the Ministry has its own organization, the Agricultural Loan Co-operatives Association. He's gone completely from serving the peasant and the farmer, and it's like a farmer's nightmare. He bores debtors with high interest, and at a time like this, he can perform on producers' tractors. Have fear of God. This institution has become the barley of the ruling party. How old are seven-to-seven AK PARTY MPs, unelected candidates, former mayors, under the supervision of the Agricultural Credit Cooperate; payables, eat my father, eat my father! When the farmer came to them, the farmer was miserable, the feeder was miserable, the peasant was miserable, but when he came to them, the interest was interest over interest; fear God; have you lost your conscience so much? And more importantly, we have the director general. Not enough government-issued vehicles, ma'am, making private VIP vans, driving around in them. They're hurting, they're enjoying, they're running the government. Dear lawmakers, the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry is experiencing a great weakness of governance. Mr. Secretary Pakdemirli runs the Ministry with dishonest, unsustainable and irresponsible advisors; we've said it over and over again. The ministry employs official advisers as well as honorary advisers. It's the first time we've seen this kind of government administration. Yeah, I've been a civil servant for 40 years. I'm confused, confused, confused. I can't think of a word to say. Dear lawmakers, instead of merit in appointment and deployment at the institution, relatives, familiarity is a step forward. Mr. Secretary, how many friends, friends, friends, wives, relatives of the lady he worked in the private sector, all of them, thank God, advisors to the Ministry, or whatever. Yes, such a ministry cannot be run. As members of the Agricultural Commission -- this is very important -- on November 11, 2020, we attended a meeting at TAGEMEM. After this meeting, Mr. Pakdemiri returned to me and said, "May I see you for two minutes?" I'll see you, Mr. Minister, of course." I said. Of all the MPs and bureaucrats who were there, I'm not going to answer the questions you gave me. You're getting inside information, you're getting inside information. Did he also give you a name called, "Is this the one? " Now, if I may ask your conscience, can such a Ministry have an understanding? If you're going to ask me that question, ask me someplace private, and he doesn't have one, and he says, "I'm not going to answer you. Now, he's not going to answer my questions, he's not going to answer my suggestions, thank God, so the questions I'm asking are true. A Minister's attitude is not acceptable, Mr. AK PARTI. With such understanding, the state cannot be ruled, Mr. AK PARTI. We don't call this system a system for nothing. This is the result of some freaky system, some freaky management. Now, here, I will not answer your motion publicly to a elected MP of the nation's will. I don't know the law, I don't know the Grand National Assembly of Turkey." he says. That attitude lies with 600 MPs, 83 million Turkish nationals. Mr. President of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey is obliged to defend the House's reputation against those who discredit the Grand Assembly. Mr. Speaker, you are responsible for protecting the reputation of this House, the reputation of these 600 MPs, and I invite you to serve for it. Dear lawmakers, now, do you know what the Minister has done?
tbmm-2020-12-14sit03spe0254par0060	Didn't you talk to our Minister of Agriculture the other day on the show?
tbmm-2020-12-14sit03spe0253par0061	Do you know what the Minister did? He left his post at the Ministry of Agriculture, established a position at the Forestry General Directorate, hasn't been gone in a year or so. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] One more minute...
tbmm-2020-12-14sit03spe0255par0064	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit03spe0253par0065	Now, what did he do? He's got a position in the forest headquarters, and he's got pictures of the halls of the office, and he's beautiful, he's beautiful, he can do it.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit03spe0256par0066	You sat with him, and spoke with him, and drank tea at the table, and drank coffee; and we were there.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit03spe0257par0067	Just hear me out.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit03spe0258par0068	Listen, listen.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit03spe0259par0069	Now, the Department of Agriculture officials say, "Mr. Secretary, we're homesick for a visit from the Ministry." In fact, have him put those pictures around our Ministry and in the corridors. More importantly, the Melen Dam, which was said to be finished in 2016, has been tendered three times, and the bureaucrats have not been given the proper punishment, even though there are corrupt bureaucrats. The Meat and Milk Foundation -- it's very important -- two years ago, the monthly kilogram storage fee was 45 cents, and two years later, it was now reduced to 15 cents. Two years ago, the bidders cost the state 100 million liras. Now, the Minister didn't pay for this. Again, the TIGEM, according to the Court reports, lost 98 million in 2019, and no one's asking for an account. So the Department of Agriculture is a shitty Ministry. The Department of Agriculture has turned into a swamp ministry. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Can I take the time to say hello because it's not enough? The Ministry of Agriculture has a directive now: there is no trans fat in the packaging of many foods such as chocolate, biscuits, chips. I'm asking you, Mr. Secretary, if you're doing this, I'm telling you, God bless you. Dear Minister, now, here, I couldn't tell you all the matters of the Ministry. I had 27 questions in the two-question motion, and those questions are still there, and I'm not gonna let it go. Answer me or don't answer me, but as long as you take away our farmer's rights, our peasant's rights, our feeder's rights, I'll answer for it. I'm from Iconium, I'm from the farmer's center. I don't give a damn, I don't give a damn, I don't give a damn, I don't give a damn, I don't give a damn, I don't give a damn, I don't give a damn, I don't give a damn!
tbmm-2020-12-14sit03spe0260par0078	Mr. Mehmet Metanet Çulhaoğlu. Here you are, Mr. Çulhaoğlu.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit03spe0261par0081	Mr. President, I've been promised to express my opinion on the budget of the Director-General of the Forest of 2021 on behalf of the PARTI Group. I salute your high council. Mr. President, valued MPs, no doubt the forests are the basic habitats of mankind. If people can still breathe fresh air, if they can reach water, if they can reach reliable food, the forest has a big share in it. Forests are also the main source of ecosystems. The forest needs to be looked at in its economic and social dimension. The forest is the tourist centre, the forest is the natural habitat, the forest is the country's lung, our oxygen source. Dear friends, our forests are an important resource for industry sectors such as woodwork, paper and medicine, and the country provides 70 per cent of the timber needs, and our country provides substantial income for its budget. Are we protecting enough of our forests, which, by hosting many creatures, balance the ecological system, cover 28 percent of our country's facial measurement? I don't think so. Look, dear friends, according to the Global Forest Tracking and Warning System, which is compiling satellite data and other information from the World Institute of Natural Resources, including more than 40 digits, including the United Nations, Turkey lost 425,000 hectares of wood cover between 2001-2017. Unfortunately, the main reason for the reduction is the laws you've made. Using bag law technique 6831, a classic AK PARTI, you have changed the Law of the Forest 25 times during the AK PARTI period, which allows mining, tourism, energy investments under the rule of Law 7139. Yes, dear friends, exactly 25 times. The changes in law and relevant regulations have reduced forest areas for new use, even if not on paper. Companies with open-field operating permits and licenses caused thousands of hectares of first-degree forest areas to disappear, polluting, and erosion. For the gold mine, thousands of hectares of forest have been destroyed, and we can illustrate the forests of the Kaz Mountains. The extraction of gold mines with cyanide has rendered significant water sources unusable. In the upper forest basins, in recent years, the hydropower plant has had more than a thousand permits and licenses. Thus, as the endemic plant and fish species have been destroyed, forest villagers who benefit from these streams as drinking and using water have suffered vital damage. The world's envy of nature is that our richness, the best part of our coastal forests and seas, has been destroyed for settlements and special use over the past 18 years. What needs to be done: First, the lack of current systematic data must be removed and the maps of land education and use for our 25 stream basin must be prepared and with an ecosystem-based approach the production planning must be put into action urgently with an integrated understanding. The forest-forestation work must be accelerated, expanding the area of our forests as a field. Forests in and out of the forest that have been removed or sold to private individuals must be rebuilt as soon as possible, restored to old technical and practical power. For this reason, forest conservation service, forest-forestationing service, forest-technical schools, which have been shut down during this period of power, must be opened as soon as possible, restored to its former power. One of the worst practices done by the EC PARTY is to convert the Metropolitan Law and our forest villages into neighborhood status and privatisation of forest work. For the sustainable management and protection of forests, more than 7 million forest villagers in our country must be developed, and in order to prevent increasing migration in these villages, the requirement for forest conservation workers, production workers and maintenance workers to be forest villagers must be returned to their employment. The Ministry of Forestry should be re-opened and re-opened as the only ministry under the forest ministry and return to its former strength and useful activities under the roof of the Ministry of Forestry.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit03spe0262par0088	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit03spe0261par0089	Thank you, Mr. President. Forest fire response teams must be present in three hundred and sixty-five days of the year, especially in our region of the Mediterranean, Aegean, Marmara, West Black Sea. There should not be temporary workers here, but staffed fire response teams. We expect from power, from now on, that our forest areas will not be drawn back to the allies and that our country's lungs will be given the proper values. I wish you all the best in the 2021 budget, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit03spe0263par0093	Mr. Orhan Çakler...
tbmm-2020-12-14sit03spe0264par0095	Edirne MP...
tbmm-2020-12-14sit03spe0263par0096	Edirne MP Orhan Çakır. Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit03spe0265par0099	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of our well-being group on the budget budget proposal for 2021 years; on the state waterworks General Directorate, the meteorological General Directorate and the budgets for the Turkish Water Institute. I salute the General Assembly. Dear lawmakers, the State Water Affairs General Directorate is a private-budget investor organisation responsible for the planning, management, development and operation of all water resources in our country, in accordance with the central management budget. The Court General of State Water Affairs reports have determined that some purchases of goods and services, which are the same subject and provided directly with the same date, have been divided into pieces to benefit from Article 22/D of Law 4734. Why did the State Water Affairs General have to tender the open procedure, which is a competitive way of dealing with goods, services and production, and why did it come to multiple tenders in a direct form of procurement? Wouldn't it be a public harm to divide matters by direct procurement, even though it's clear that there will be competition in open-door tenders and public benefit? I'd also like to share another matter with you. The Department of State Water Affairs has thousands of employees working for him. It's the capacity to do things in its own capacity as a direct procurement. Do the State Water Affairs bureaucrats not know the capacity of their own workers and inventory? Or is there a job being taken in place here? Precious lawmakers have been identified as being provided in investment programmes for the General Directorate and district managers, where they will be auctioned off, the dam, the pond, irrigation, flood protection, wastewater collection and treatment facilities, and the planning reports for the drinking water facilities and the construction line work can be done by their own means, while the construction projects can be done by their own means, and the costs are paid by the budget. It seems that, unfortunately, an inadequate institution has been created as a result of an unsatisfactory attempt to fill the regional directorate and the General Manager's staff in a non-transparency way. Dear lawmakers, as it is known, the importance of water matters in the world is known to everyone, and savings during the crisis, as well as greater and more macro methods must be taken care of. In the past, water resources were thought to be infinite, but today many countries are trying to find ways to use water more efficiently, realizing that water resources are limited. Due to our country's lack of rain this year, the extreme drought has revealed the need for efficient use of water resources. Dear lawmakers, with the announcement of dam fulfilling rates in Thrace, by the State Waterworks 11th District Directorate, our city of Edirne has been found in a severe and violent drought category on the map of the meteorology General Directorate. In Edirne, it is imperative that the necessary work be started, and the incomplete needs to be dealt with immediately. The main problems of Edirne County are water and water shortages. As a result of this year's drought in our city, wheat and sunflower yields have been observed. There has been no development in the Potterville Dam, which was thought to be done in Lalapaşa district of Edirne, which began project work six years ago. I didn't get a clear answer in my written request to your ministry about whether the project was part of the investment. Is the dam in the investment program? I'd also like to point out that Edirne farmer wants the dam built immediately. In the event of the Potterville Dam, 56,500 acres of land will be irrigable. 11 villages around the region will benefit from irrigation as a result of the dam. In this way, product efficiency will increase, and our farmer will have a chance to increase product diversity. I still don't understand what you're waiting for. Projects have been prepared, all kinds of feasibility studies have been completed, and it is imperative that the Potterville Dam be immediately put into investment programme and begin production work. When will you complete the gaps in the Lighting Dam? The Lighting Dam is not fully operational, and the immediate completion of the shortcomings here will be a relief to our farmer. Although the pond in the village of Uzgaç, one of our nearest villages in the city centre, has a semi-open semi-indoor irrigation system, it has not worked for 18 years. Why isn't it working? Your ministry has built the Edirne central Uzgaç watering to serve 225 hectares of agriculture. In 2000, the business maintenance and management responsibility was handed over to Uzgaç and Ahi villages watering co-operatives in 2002. In 2002, watered 38 hectares, 150 hectares in 2003, 50 hectares in 2004, 98 hectares in 2006, 40 hectares in 2008, 62 hectares in 2010, 93 hectares in 2013, 68 hectas in 2015, 38 hecs in 2017. Why were data from 2005, 2007, 2009, 2011, 2012, 2014, 2016 not included? This structure, built to serve 225 hectares of agricultural land, works with an average of 30 per cent efficiency as a result of the data provided. I believe that the data on the bet reflects data received by the motopops because the system is shut down. Do you have any work on the Suakca Dam, which has been on the agenda for over 40 years, but is not yet begun, and is planned to be built on the Tunca River? I would also like to ask the question. Dear lawmakers, in October 2019, the crew began collecting receipts from the Departments of Agriculture and Forestry to pay the premium for the wheat crop that our farmer harvested in June 2020. In the past years, after harvest, after the harvest, after July, in August, all of the wheat we sold were paid for by county and county agriculture and forest managers, and they were collected and entered into the system; they were suspended, including September, October, and bonus benefits were paid. The unpaid benefits have no value in the farmer's eyes. This is not only the case of wheat, but the farmer has the same problem with all the products he expects support for. Another concern is that support fees must be determined before planting the farmer. The farmer wants to evaluate the product he will plant. Why did you wait 11 months if you were going to announce the same benefits as last year? Even that reveals the value given to the farmer. In 2006, a law was passed that you never followed. According to the law, the budget for agricultural support will not be less than 1 per cent of the illegitimate national product. What did you do? You couldn't pay half. Don't think the farmer won't pay for this. I would also like to point out that about 50 percent of agricultural land in our country is not registered in the Farmer's Recording System. It's because our farmers didn't make their way back to the estates they used. Because non-retributable farmland cannot be registered to the CKS, our farmers can't benefit from any agricultural support for these farmlands, and they can't get agricultural insurance. How do you propose a solution? I also say don't kill the Gulf of Saros. I wish the budget to be a blessing, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit03spe0266par0116	Mr. Hussain Anris, Congressman of Tripoli. Here you go, Mr. Anres.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit03spe0267par0119	Mr. President, I have made a promise on behalf of the Fine Society of the Ministry of Youth and Sports budget. I salute you all with the utmost respect.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit03spe0268par0120	It's all for us, Tripoli!
tbmm-2020-12-14sit03spe0267par0121	Dear lawmakers, there are many scientific studies on the definition of academic circles, the basic function of sports and what sports governments must do to accomplish this function. I'd like to start with a summary of these studies. The basic function of sports is to improve the body and the mental health of the person who is the basis of economic, social, and cultural development. In detail, we can describe sports as activities that facilitate harmony by providing information, skill, and skill to ensure the formation of personality and the development of character traits. In addition to maintaining solidarity and peace among peoples, communities and nations, sports are also done in order to combat, to be excited, to compete, and to prevail in competition, as well as to increase the strength of one's struggle. The spread of sports, which is an important part of human personal development and the introduction of countries, and the achievement of desired achievements, depends largely on a strong and resistant organisation and management. The administration, perceived as the process of managing human behavior and business, is an active profession and process with flexible and varying properties in which humans and organisations have results. Sports management is about exploring, finding, and transforming the principles of general management into general principles, by applying the principles, methods and rules of sports, to explore, and to explore the rational and scientific way to implement activities of sports policy, decision-making and goals. Sports management, which is associated with human resources, long-term planning, programming, facilities, budgets, legal responsibility, marketing, and public relations, is a mutual influence of the manager and the shareholders who participate in the physical education and sports process. Sports management can also be described as being aware of external factors, such as economics, technology, politics, competition, participants, social and cultural events, and the ability and roles to maintain the continuity of any sports organization regardless of its structure and size. The debate over what sports will be like in our country has been going on for many years, and there have been a number of searches to solve the problems of Turkish sports, and they continue to be. Dear lawmakers, while the budget for our Ministry of Youth and Sports is being discussed in the Plan and Budget Commission, I have voiced constructive criticism with a growing sense of responsible opposition, including the problems of Turkish sports and especially the pandemic process.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit03spe0269par0126	Thank you, Mr. Hussein.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit03spe0267par0127	Thank you. There's a law that Turkish sports has been waiting for for years, a law that's been talked about but still hasn't been passed, sports clubs and federations. I said that in the Commission, and I want to say it again in front of the General Assembly because this law is very important. In Turkey, especially the state of football clubs is known to many, many are in debt, and because they do not give in to the economic conditions, there are restrictions, bans. Some single-handed club managers continue to spend out of control, so there's no control mechanism. Dear friends, our Ministry of Youth and Sports performed a workshop in Ankara on January 13th and 17th, 2020, and I followed it from the press and the media. It was a really useful study, Mr. Secretary, and I'll tell you this here, because five separate sessions were attended by representatives of the football federation, 145 football club representatives and other interested ones. After the meeting, I looked at the study results report published, where there was a pre-sport law study, and there was a declaration that this was being carried out in order to contribute to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Minister, you gave a speech at this workshop and said that the law on sports clubs and federations will soon be on the agenda of Parliament. It was almost a year after that because it was in January -- when we looked it up, it was a little over a year ago -- but this law was not passed. At what stage is the study of this law? The fact that the budgets of the clubs are not exceeded, that the law of sports clubs and federations, which should be held responsible for any debt of its own period and should meet expectations for the removal of uncontrollable expenditures, is truly a concern that the law still does not exist. At this point, let me tell you, even though we're political at other parties, although we're part of another party, we have two members of our parliament, both Mr. Saffet Sandzakli and Albay Özalan, who served Turkish football. I would like to present to you from here that I can contribute to these studies as a former club president, president of the 1461 Tripoli Club, if necessary. Dear friends, I'd like to remind you of something here about the current status of Turkish football. As a result of the elimination of all our teams fighting in Europe this year, Turkey has, unfortunately, fallen to 13.1 points in the country's rating. I would also like to point out that the economic difficulties of our clubs have affected their failures in the international arena. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, in this part of my speech, I'd like to address the problems and problems of our amateur clubs. Amateur sports already had problems, but with the pandemic process, these problems have increased. Now, when we look at it, almost all of our amateur clubs are in huge financial trouble, and they're dealing with financial problems, and they can't provide supplies. One of the biggest problems for amateur clubs is supply shortages. I know our clubs were given supplies until a few years ago, but it's being expressed by our clubs, which aren't permanent and are being interrupted. In pre-season preparation, the preparation of equipment such as tracksuits, cleats, jerseys, raincoats, concerts, footballs is worth more than the financial status of clubs. Your sport knows about our friends in football, and when you add license fees to it, it becomes even more unbearable. Hence, in Anatolia, many amateur clubs in particular are in danger of closing down or closing down. Amateur clubs need supplies, Mr. Secretary. In this regard, the share of municipalities' budgets into sports should be given to amateur clubs in the area of municipal authority. This share, if I remember correctly, was at 7 per cent of the city's municipalities at 12 per cent. Here's the problem: These municipalities provide these assistance to clubs in various branches of their own bodies in practice. I think it's more appropriate that the amount mentioned in the law be used equally to all amateur clubs in the jurisdiction of municipalities. Dear lawmakers, amateurs are not only short of supplies, there are some health issues in amateur sports. For example, it's very important to have medical personnel who can intervene in the event of a crash -- which God does not show -- that there are unwanted cases such as language evasion. There are complaints at this point that health care personnel present at the competition are said to be understaffed by documents obtained after very short-term training or courses. It is also said that there are inadequacies in medical supplies and equipment. Health care equipment, such as IV equipment, a treatment stretcher, or a shock device, should also be provided for health personnel who are involved in the competition. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, the amateur has a lot more problems, but I thought I'd sum it up with two. Another issue -- because it's something I care about -- is to get disabled individuals turned to sports. I'm going to say something about this: we know that our disabled citizens in our country have problems with socialization at the point of integration. These problems in many areas make it difficult for disabled individuals to live in an active unity with their community. It is vital to know the disabled, to understand him, and to properly shape our actions toward him. One way to allow disabled people to blend in with society is to allow them to participate in sports life with other individuals, providing them with complete and equal participation in social life. In order for a disabled individual to be able to exercise no matter how much he is willing to exercise on his own, he needs to be offered other opportunities that are different from other individuals. In order for disabled persons to be met with the need to exercise, sports centers where the special needs of the disabled can be established in sports areas, and in this direction -- this is important -- must be kept by trained staff. However, if such conditions are met, the disabled individual will be able to exercise alone in these areas without being dependent on one. The type of activity selected for the participation of disabled persons in the sports environment and the type of sport must be selected according to the capacity of the disabled. Sports will also allow disabled individuals to compete among themselves as they open a new window of life. It is clear that the social ties of disabled athletes will improve. Sadly, opportunities for disabled individuals in our country to be able to provide sports services are insufficient. I also say that we will support any project that will include the goals of sports policy, which will increase the prevalence of disabled sports. Dear friends, if we're here today to discuss the budget of the Ministry of Youth and Sports, I think we should discuss the unemployment problem of our young people. Last year, I heard Mr. Secretary of the Ministry of Youth and Sports budget talks on the Plan and Budget Commission. The Minister's presentation on the 2020 budget of institutions related to the Ministry of Youth and Sports mentioned projects for young people. Mr. Secretary says they are in contact with young people from all parts of the community. We want to see a youth who is not only listening but also making noise. We want to open the doors of dreaming together, thinking together, working together, building together. He cares about the principle of participation, and through our youth centers, we include young people in the decision - making process. He used his expressions. Now, what I'm saying, Mr. Secretary, is that if we want our young people to listen, speak, dream, think, and produce, we have to solve their unemployment problem first. There are millions of young people who don't study or study. The number of young people who have been looking for work for more than a year has increased exponentially. He's got a college degree in unemployment. Unplanned universities opened without the needs of the sectors were no longer a gateway to hope for our young, and they were not able to take their place in employment even though they graduated with high hopes. We have millions of young unemployed. What did you do for these young people in power, and what job opportunity did you provide for them?
tbmm-2020-12-14sit03spe0270par0137	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit03spe0267par0138	You've been in power for 18 years, come on, pull out the interviewing system that works like a torpedo recruitment mechanism. Come, give up this love of concrete, and carry out employment projects. Friends, today our young are troubled, our young are desperate for their future. Unemployment concerns, bills, expenses... students and new graduates are the head of economic difficulties in Turkey. Young people want jobs; young people want jobs; young people want jobs with social security; young people want permanent jobs that they won't be on the street in a few months, that they won't have to worry about work, that they won't have to look for people from the party to get a job again, that they won't have to get references from the MP. First of all, I want you to take concrete steps to employ these young people, not advise them, give them a staff. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Can I have another minute?
tbmm-2020-12-14sit03spe0271par0142	Well, you did, Mr. Anvil.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit03spe0267par0143	Well, I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit03spe0271par0145	Thank you, Mr. Anris. Mr. Ahmet Kamil Erozan, our Fellowship Congressman. Here you go, Mr. Erozan.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit03spe0272par0149	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, Mr. Secretary, foreign policy is the front line of defence for a country; security, the ability to rule economic geography, the ability to resolve conflicts unarmedly, the services taken to citizens abroad, the prestige of the state, not only against enemies, but against friends and allies, the protection of the country's rights and laws on land, on the sea, under the sea, and at the bottom, in space, as a means and a consequence of its sovereignty, is a means and a means for every citizen to be protected, as a guarantee and as a result. I've given you the outline of what foreign policy's main goals should be. However, in today's day, the ruling Republic of Turkey -- I would say here, the precious loneliness, but Mr. Ahmet Star expressed that he does not like -- has no precious loneliness, no honorable isolation. [[A round of applause from the good parties]] More than 80 per cent of the State Department's spending is spent abroad. Last year, this budget was $812 million, reduced to $735 million this year, so 77 million was reduced. On November 24th, I talked about this budget as a reduced amount of 66 million dollars as we speak in the Commission, and I want to say that the State Department's budget has been down 11 million dollars in the last three weeks. I'll talk for 15 minutes, and by the time I get to 15 minutes, the budget will probably be a few thousand dollars less. You might say: "Do they get their wages in dollars? " Yes, they get it in dollars, even in euros. Thus, the play in the wolf has led to a down payment on the State Department's TL budget and therefore abroad. How much is this budget? It's only 0.44 per cent, and the ministers are 18 if you go into the institutional ranking. This is not only a sign of the importance of government rulers referring to foreign policy, it is also the measure of the Minister's political class, which cannot receive the funds he demands. Let alone countries that are actors in a global sense, we are dealing with Turkey, which has no relationship with its neighbours. In the same apartment, the country was turned into a quarrelling, moody man with all its neighbors, and now I think it's time for Iran. Today, Turkey has no relations with Russia and Germany with China, but Mr. Erdoğan has an unstable fluctuation due to the moods of Mr. Erdogan with Trump (now Trump) and Putin (now Trump) and Merkel (now) and Macron (now with Macron), and those relations with Shi (now, unfortunately) are fluctuating with Mr. Erdogan. It is also sad that the power, which cannot be more than disruptive, has become the pawn of chess in games such as the Great Middle East Project set up by others. In international relations, friends or enemies are not absolute; there are rational steps in which countries can take in accordance with their national interests. There are three constant conditions for being active and successful in international politics: a strong and productive economy, a powerful and capable army, a diplomacy that has taken into account the pursuit of rational and national interests. Our army is powerful, thank God, but it will not end up counting losses caused by the political approach of power which is far from deterrent. Let me just give you one example: I can come suddenly one night. Only two and a half years after the temples of Syria could start a counterterrorism operation. We all know what's been lost in time. To the east of Fırat, if you want his name, the sheep is similar to the one in the neighbouring Iraq, and an autonomous institution that reminds him of it. Operation Peace Fountain, east of Fırat, was based on a road map and timeline drawn by the United States and Russia from the beginning. AS A GOOD PARTY, all of Syria is a safe zone. When you said, "You were able to control only 120km of the 450km line east of Fırat, and in harmony with other people's scripts, you made Syria a canton. With all this going on, our country was infested. Nearly 5 million people who sought refuge in Turkey have now become economic fugitives. You've been giving the citizen social support that you can't provide in a pandemic environment for ten years to strangers. Don't you realize that this is turning into a social tumor and becoming an internal security problem? The financial and political costs of the authoritarian policies of power are growing, and our dealings with the fragileness of our economy are being seen to be weakened by Turkey's resistance to external pressures. Furthermore, it is no longer a secret to anyone that many choices in foreign policy are a challenge to cloud the internal political agenda. Mr. Erdogan's position as a lame duck has been another reason for our losses outside since the political election. As in the ruling economy, it strives to save the day in foreign policy, and it tries to reflect on the street that foreign policy is also in the realm of wonder. The display can't go beyond the middle game. Our goal to take part in the world's top 10 economies has been vaporized, and the G20 country, Turkey, today has become G21. We, however, have to walk on a holistic, stable foreign policy axis, in which our economic and social structure is protected. This country belongs to all of us. If there is a democracy, everyone in this country has a say in it, and it is our duty to say, "Stop being deceived!" We don't just want to criticize, we want to set our foreign policy straight. It is also our duty to do rational analysis of the developments and to say that you are on the wrong path when it comes to it. In foreign policy, we have never received satisfying answers to the questions we've raised in our dealings with the minister of foreign affairs, for example, and Mr. Secretary of State and Mr. Secretary of Defense. No one listened to the warnings that me and our congressman friends raised on the TBM stand or at press conferences. Unfortunately, what we said proved to be true with the bitter consequences. And as for the sons of our fathers, which we have lost to suffering at every turn, we pray once again with mercy, and for patience with their families, and for speedy healing to our veterans. Turkey's foreign policy has become a lump of indecisions and obligations. The government is hoping to climb them, not solve them because of the problems in domestic policy. You're directing public opinion through your own fictional perceptions, and you're finally becoming a hostage to the public you're directing. We're used to your zigzags, but from abroad to Turkey, even those who refer to Turkey as important, what happens to them? Where is Turkey going? They ask the question. The only success of your power in foreign policy is that you've made our problems their problems. Those external forces are desperate to find solutions to their own problems. How do you make this mistake because of many decisions made by the government in foreign policy? You have no idea what we've been calling it? When we did an analysis of these developments, we were devastated to observe that many of the things that seem to be mistakes are conscious choices stemming from necessity, belonging or constants. When we looked back at the actions and decisions of those who considered us to be domestic and national in despair today, we saw with regret that they themselves were far from domestic and national and that the consequences of their wrongful decisions were carried out by this nation. As in economics, we are disturbed by the growing debris that we will take over in foreign policy. We also know that the foreign policy of power has many unregistered fronts. In this context, of course, I'm referring to phone calls between leaders in particular. One day our contacts will probably come to us, and that's how we agreed with Mr. Erdogan. Didn't you know? We're probably not gonna find any records of this anywhere. Allow me to bring up a few current issues. We've learned that the Turkish-Russian joint centre on the Azerbaijan territory has finally been agreed on the matter of Upper Karabagan. I can't say we're pleased about this, because with this joint center, the Russian Peace Corps will set foot in another part of Turkey's panssusu outside the area where it operates. In a past conversation, I highlighted our sensitivity to this subject, and I asked myself, "Why didn't we do it with Azerbaijan on a double level? That question is still real today. Where is this common center, what will be its function, and with what technical facilities will it be equipped for observation? Is the signed text an international agreement, what's the duration? How many Turks, how many Russian soldiers will be found in this station? Where is Azerbaijan in this agreement? The problem with this joint centre, which has no building, is Mr. Sergeant, and Mr. Akar. At least one of these questions came back from Aliyev, not from you, and we finally learned that the common center would be in the wax district, not in Upper Karabağ, as you said. In the eastern Mediterranean, the attraction of hydrocarbon resources discovered in recent years has attracted not only the countries of the region but also the countries outside the region, and the region has become a conflict of interest. We've waited seven years for the power and the power that was silent in 2003, and we have to ask what Mr. President is waiting for and why. After a deep sleep wake, Turkey signed a naval jurisdiction agreement with the Turkish Cypriots in 2011. Even the sleeping beauty wakes up once she's kissed. And don't think that the more you kiss, the more you love. Eight years later last year, in 2019, you signed a memorandum of understanding with Libya. The odds are, this agreement you made conflicted with Greece's agreement with Egypt. However, our relations with Egypt, Palestine, Syria, Israel and Greece, all of them, if we put aside Cyprus and Libya, which share this geography as part of the coast. So when we looked forward, just two years ago, we said that this had to be discussed on a multilateral basis, that it couldn't be solved by binary formulas. If power can't do it today, make sure we do it next year when we come to power. I'll explain what I mean when I say we'll do it next year. By the way, because I said Israel, I cannot say "Mr Ambassador" to Israel, not the ambassador, because I also need to mention the Maslahatzazar, who will go. It's a good thing, Maslahatzar, because if you had tried to appoint him ambassador, our friend couldn't have gotten an Agreman because his past of Israel's statements is so dirty. So if he had a friend, you'd be able to send him off as an ambassador, not an ambassador, and then he'd end up a masseuse. It is also a case in which the European Union and the United States will co-operate in the coming period. Oh, you're glad, of course, you're saying that the European Union couldn't sanction us. But you're looking at what's written, and there's no thinking about what's not written. I'll show you a sample of what wasn't written. The EU statement doesn't say that, but it does. He says: "Let us see how long your future is in the European Union. They'll say, "Put it in the middle." Let's see how and what reforms you make. Let's see if you can get fast Reis. Let's see if your navy can run a drill in the controversial areas. Let's see if you'll continue to declare NAVTEX. These are not all questions asked, but these questions are on the agenda. For what it's worth, there's been no sanction today, but I think it's in the interest of considering Turkey's economic situation, a series of instalments and long-term sanctions are on the agenda. In a sense, Turkey has been called a challenge. And I'm just saying that when the time comes, God willing, he won't repeat what we said today. I don't know where to begin with our relations with Russia. Our diplomatic relations with Russia are founded in 1492. Let alone the United States on the globe, there was no American continent. Although these relationships have been difficult for centuries, the overall picture has often dominated our relations with mutual respect, understanding, and interest in both the Ottoman period and the Republic era. But that balance, unfortunately, has changed during the AKP ruling period. Our foreign trade deficit has increased, Russia has settled in the Mediterranean, a strategic target for centuries, and has now become our southern neighbour in the Middle East. There's an odd phrase to it, Putin. He says, "Erdoğan is a flexible and reliable partner despite his harsh nature. " I have to ask him now, in what matter, Mr. President? So this is Syria? Libya? Up Karaböp? If the East Mediterranean or a trusted partner, in what area does Mr. Putin take the position of your President as a trusted partner? Security, energy, defense industry? We also have an unstable relationship in the energy field, so this is called the Akkuyu Plant, which is part of our relations with Russia, but Akkuyu Operator, unfortunately, nothing is ours except the land. We own the land, we own the land, everything above it, the Russians run it. At what price? At 12,35 cents a kilowatt, it's no different than tunnels, hospitals, bridges. So with a guarantee of buying energy and 12.35 cents; there's no such price in the world, but we'll get it for years, 15 years.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit03spe0273par0166	The do-and-do-development.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit03spe0272par0167	We'll soon see who he's handing over to. Besides, there's this S-400 thing, you know. This S-400, we hear you attempt to take the second one, we don't hear it from you, but we're hearing from the Russians, unfortunately, it seems inevitable that we're facing an impasse here. I will continue to discuss the 15th article of the month -- now, I have ten more minutes to finish my talks here -- and I am aware that I can't cover all the issues here, but I do have a call to the Minister: Use this budget once, save it. Say it. Because we will take over in the 2nd half of the year. When we take over the budget, we don't want to face a fully dry copper budget.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit03spe0274par0171	What's left, what's left?
tbmm-2020-12-14sit03spe0275par0172	Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit03spe0272par0173	Secondly, we just had a conversation about how full the glass is and how empty it is. In terms of the State Department, there's no empty glass because the glass is broken. My respects.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit03spe0276par0176	Dreams...
tbmm-2020-12-14sit03spe0277par0177	Keep dreaming, keep dreaming! Come on, keep dreaming!
tbmm-2020-12-14sit03spe0278par0178	Mersin MP Mr. Zeki Hakan Sedali. Here you go, Mr. Sadalı. [[A round of applause from the good parties]] Your time has been ten minutes, Mr. Healthy.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit03spe0279par0182	Mr. President, we're moving forward step by step when we need to complete half an century in our claim to the European Union, which began in 1959. By full membership, visa liberalisation, as trade increases, we're looking at a complete decline in reports published by the European Union, and more than that, we're threatened by sanctions. How did we get here, or was this the place we wanted to come to, and it's time for an answer. We are all witnesses to the European double standard of ulterior motives regarding issues related to Turkey. We're all fighting this attitude together, but unfortunately, not every word is unrestrained. We know the truth, and we read the reports with that eye. For example, the 154th, 124th, 107th in the rule of law and law in freedom of the press, let's forget the line, but unfortunately it's the truth that we're regressing. Such harsh facts, unfortunately, are being used against us when the TİK doesn't prepare these data. The progress made by European institutions, or rather, we can't digest what's written while reading the reports. We can't accept that a nation whose justice has been established for centuries and has set an example for the nations should teach the descendants of other nations a lesson of justice. Unfortunately, this sad painting is your creation. You need reform as if you didn't make freedom, justice, and economics this way." he says. We're also wondering why the reforms came right after the sanction news, not when the reforms were reduced to ten-to-one in the index. We defend democracy and freedom not because someone wants it, but because our people deserve it." You're saying, which is true: reform for the people or reform for the economy? If reforms are economic imperatives, if they're not really necessary or if you don't believe them, then if the economy improves, will you withdraw the reforms? The cause of interest, the result of inflation. As wrong as your theory, the economic cause, the result of justice, is also wrong. In fact, justice is the cause, the result of the economy. It turns out your diagnosis is wrong again, so the treatment won't be healthy. We see ourselves in Europe. The diplomatic ship does not work. If we are aiming for a future with the EU, we must create a diplomatic approach to repair unsafe relations. This approach should not be swayed by conjunctural decisions; it should be institutional, planned and consistent. So you need a very different system than your wind rose diploma so far. Even though we're right, it's also important to know how we say it and how we can support our claim. The deepening of co-operation in trade, tourism, science, environment and health with the diversified integration model will further perpetuate Turkey's indispensable position. Turkey, which adds value to Europe, will allow members to think twice about applying a double standard to us, giving us more cautious explanations. You said that the European Union would reform your power, that we would walk together. Come on, let's go. What are you going to do? We're wondering what you're gonna do. I hope what you're going to do will benefit our nation, not your political influence. Congressmans, our direction will become even more important after the pandemic. While global trade, NAFTA, TTIP, the European Union and the Asian Regional Consumption of Economic Partnership are moving deeper and deeper than ever, it is time for Turkey to decide where it wants to become the lead element. Last month, 15 countries in Asia and the Pacific signed an economic partnership agreement. On the other hand, the Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership, which was launched by the former American administration, but was recognized by Trump, may be re-opened at this time. TTIP, which will be held between the United States and the European Union, will have a major impact on Turkey's exports as it stands. This agreement, which will produce the world's largest market, must be part of our country. The way to be on the side is to update the customs union. In order for this update to take place, the government must initiate all initiatives immediately. If this opportunity is handled correctly, the benefit will do serious harm if it is not managed. Two alternatives, such as being unwanted by no one and being wanted by everyone, will determine our economic, political, diplomatic goals and performance. So it will be very important for our economic position to develop relations with the European Union, where we import the most and half of our exports, within the framework of the principle of winning and winning. So, where are we in these relationships? Yesterday, the majority of direct investments in our economy were from Europe, but because of the virtual governance you created, we are now looking for the investor with wax in broad daylight. Despite your release of reform, the CEO of Volkswagen could not tell the administration with political words. He cancelled a billion-dollar investment, and we lost the opportunity to Slovakia. Unfortunately, we're paying the price for the infamous environment you've created as a nation. The boss of the economy only gains trust through the rule of law and transparency. Without them, the virtual reform rhetoric you've heard for the first time in weeks is neither reassuring nor contributing to employment. Dear lawmakers, one of the conflicts between us and the European Union is the issue of immigration that you cannot manage. Signed in 2016, the Reception Agreement made our country the world's migration buffer zone. With this agreement, the European Union intended to stop transit migrations, return them to Turkey, and leave Europe out of the wave of migration. The European Union, which says "Aday countries don't need to sign a re-enactment agreement," is a serious debate. While the European Union has not fulfilled its commitments, Turkey has become a volunteer dam country between the world and disorganised immigrants. This pleasure volunteering cost us at least 60 billion dollars. On the other hand, with the open border policy of 2011-2015, the number of Syrian asylum seekers, 12,000, has reached at least 3 million,638, according to official records, at least twice as many as we think. The government first opened the door to the end and filled in millions, then built a wall and tried to prevent an irregular migration in its own way. What policy was true? Why did it take you four years to figure that out when the last one was true? What would happen if one of the 20 people in the country became Syrian and you built a wall? [[A round of applause from the good parties]] Refugees in Turkey have become a very comprehensive problem in areas such as economics, demographics and politics. With high birth rates, 1 in 13 will be Syrian in 2040. In the official figures, the number of Syrians registered in Mersin, my hometown, was 221,000 -- and we know that there is much more -- has found 12 percent of the city. Which, again, we don't trust these numbers. According to the 2040 projections, our provinces such as Mersin, Şanlıurfa, Gaziantep, Hatay will lose the ability to become Turkish cities. We can't even afford to let that happen. What can't be done with war and diplomacy is tested by altering demographics. Therefore, the strategy and action plan to return before it is too late must be prepared, a joint commission with Damascus must be set up, and the Syrians must be made to return to their homes quickly. Dear lawmakers, we expect our colleagues not to leave Turkey's extended hand in the air. In 1932, you put a state in a position that had been invited to join the League of Nations. At this point, as you failed to complete the process of the European Union that you started in 2005, Turkey became a country even further back than it had begun. The millions of dollars spent on this road, established ministries, changed laws, despite the commitments, in the end of these fifteen years, you have made Turkey, a country in the hands of the European Union, untrustable, law-free, undetermined. So it wasn't the buildings, it was the ones inside. An effective strategy with a multi-directional foreign policy understanding and a legitimate diplomatic staff to get rid of the honorable isolation and restore Turkey to a country that is also a deterrent, to improve your image that has been broken during your time.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit03spe0280par0195	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit03spe0279par0196	I'm completing it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit03spe0281par0197	The Volkswagen has stopped investing all over the world, Volkswagen. It has nothing to do with Turkey.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit03spe0279par0198	By rewarding the unelected politicians with the office of ambassadors, you will not get positive results by considering foreign policy through personal friendships and hostility. Further, the restructuring of relations with our neighbors in the Eastern Mediterranean would change the game by establishing a national interest relationship with the principle of winning and winning. This policy is essential to sit at the table where the European Union calls Turkey but imposes its demands strongly and effectively, to make decisions in favour of our country, but you, unfortunately, prefer to do the opposite rather than narrow the front, to increase allies. I salute the High Assembly, not to act with ideological sympathy, but to understand that the right course is to conduct a foreign policy with an axis of national interests and act accordingly.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit03spe0282par0201	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-12-14sit03spe0283par0202	Mr. Altay...
tbmm-2020-12-14sit03spe0282par0203	Mr. President, if you don't mind, sir, I'd like to make a statement based on 60.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit03spe0283par0204	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit03spe0282par0207	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, our country and the world are struggling with the Covid-19 pandemic, as you know. It is a fact that this struggle has caused as much problems in both Turkey and in terms of health size, both in terms of medical size and economic size as possible. Mr. President, we've been out of words as Republican People's Party for months. Our tradesman is coming at the top of the most affected areas of the pandemic, as you know. I think we shared a 17-point solution to our tradesman three months ago with our House and with the public. Mr. President, it's a fact that in Covid-19, the tradesman took a huge hit in the closing workplaces; however, the workers took a huge hit. We've made our recommendations to the government over and over again. The job of politics is to solve the problems of all the communities, both here and here, as a business of execution and remedy. When we looked like this, for example in the past, let's give the pensioner two salary bonuses, give him two bonuses in two holidays. We insisted on a huge fight, and now it's in effect, and it's in life. In the same way, the Republican People's Party fought against Tabherona. This also came to life with its shortcomings. Now, as far as I know, the Council of Ministers is in a meeting with the three ministers, as well as the court cabinet.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit03spe0284par0212	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit03spe0282par0213	I'll finish right away, sir. We, the Republican People's Party, will continue to insist on paying rent to our tradespeople, delaying the SGK premiums, delaying the documents, delaying the loans he received, and paying the state's debt to the tradesman as soon as possible.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit03spe0285par0215	We'll always be there for our citizen, don't worry.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit03spe0282par0216	We would like to repeat once again from here that we will be unconditionally supporting these services, which the administration will have to do eventually, to take a step towards implementing these contributions as soon as possible, to share with the public that we expect good news and good news from today's Council of Ministers.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit03spe0286par0217	You must have heard he was leaving.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit03spe0282par0218	I hereby repeat my minimum wage reminder with no hesitation.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit03spe0286par0219	The president heard you were leaving, and he's talking.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit03spe0282par0220	A number that will cause our people to smile at minimum wage must be agreed with the government's contribution. Thank you, sir.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit03spe0287par0223	Mr. Engin has received backstage information from the Council of Ministers.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit03spe0282par0224	No.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit03spe0287par0225	Are you listening? What are you doing, Mr. President of the Council of Ministers?
tbmm-2020-12-14sit03spe0288par0226	He heard you were coming out of the Council of Ministers...
tbmm-2020-12-14sit03spe0289par0227	Our support for the merchants is obvious, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit03spe0290par0228	Thank you. 1) Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry 2021 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) Forest General Directorate 2021 Central Management Budget 2) Forest General Directorate 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) State Water Affairs General Directorate 2021 Central Management Budget 2) State Water Affairs General Directorate 2019 Central Management Final Account M) METEOROLOGY GENIORITY [[Continue]] 1) The General Directorate of Meteorology 2021 Central Management Budget 2) The General Directorate of Meteorology 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkey's Water Institute Central Management Budget for 2021 2) Turkey's Water Institute Final Account for Central Management 2019 1) The Ministry of Youth and Sports 2021 Central Management Budget 2) Youth and Sports Ministry Final Account for Central Management in 2019 1) State Department Central Management Budget for 2021 2) The State Department Final Account for Central Management in 2019 1) The Central Management Budget of 2021, President of the European Union 2) Central Management Final Account for the President of the European Union 2019 ÜRK AKRUDITASYON BUILDING [[Continue]] 1) Turkish Accreditation Agency Central Management Budget for 2021 2) Turkish Accreditation Institution 2019 Central Management Final Account Now we're talking about the valuable speakers of the National Party for Action. The first speaker is İzmir MP Hasan Kalyoncu. Here you go, Mr. Kalyoncu.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit03spe0291par0266	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party on the budget of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry and its subsidiaries in 2021. I salute our Veteran Assembly and the mighty Turkish nation. I wish God's mercy to all our fellow citizens who died in the flood in Izmir. It is imperative that our agricultural policies be determined by the consideration of global markets and needs, scientific and technological developments and climate changes. Our policies must be based on sustainable and realistic planning to increase Turkish agriculture from local to global scale. The primary needs of agriculture, medium and long-term problems and goals should be determined on a macro level, and the agricultural product and production pattern should be planned in harmony with them. The conservation and efficiency of agricultural land, the preservation of its biological and genetic existence, the use of rehabilitation studies, the creation of early warning systems on the fight against invasive species and epidemics, and the development of methods to combat these threats. In terms of our country's potential, improving products, highly qualified species and races should be planned to remain in our country, processing, adding value and labor force rather than being sold as raw material in the marketing of these improved product outputs. I'd like to emphasize that the product pattern in agricultural production needs to be rescheduled. With this plan, with modern methods of farming, agricultural culture, and growing techniques, the highest efficiency in the unit area must be achieved. The climate, soil and product relationship must be considered most efficiently, with high-quality and market value products, with respect to the needs of the domestic and external market, disseminating the form of monoculture production, and increasing the diversity of products. For the efficient and efficient use of water in our country, which is among water shortages, water transport must prevent loss and irrigation of plants, not soil in farming. With increasing agricultural culture and changing the understanding of irrigation of manufacturers, more quality and efficient products will be produced at less cost. The determination and updating of agricultural inventory will help ensure that agricultural planning is more realistic because of the holding of healthy agricultural statistics. To determine the current state and potential of our agricultural existence and the country's need, to determine our competitive position in the foreign markets, will also determine the products and sustainability of our external markets. Congressmans, our country is under the Program for Supporting Attraction Centres. The basic approach to this practice is regional development. As the National Movement Party, we have an offer that has remained up-to-date since 1969, which is the basis for rural development. In recent months, this issue has been brought to the Ministry's agenda as a city of intelligent agriculture. The planning of agricultural cities is a very important issue and must be dealt with very carefully. Our proposal for agricultural cities is based on the idea of establishing centres where more than one rural settlement will be determined according to geographical and economic conditions and where at least basic public services can be taken regularly and sufficiently. The idea of the city of agriculture has been brought up by different governments at different times, but a qualified practice has not been carried out. In our country, our agricultural production should be supported by the design of the attraction central approach, designed in agriculture and the country, aimed at reducing the difference of development between regions, boosting employment and production potential and eliminating the field of terrorism. Our proposal for agricultural cities or central villages can be carried out this way. Since 1969, this proposal has been presented by our party with updates in accordance with the conditions of the day. Because this social and political need remains. In particular, as the National Movement Party, we say that rural cities, where agricultural products should be diversified, efficiency and quality increased, decentralised and added value and employment acquired and marketed as brands, should be established by creating basic agricultural structures, which will support the integration of investment and technology into rural areas. Because of global warming, the emphasis on water problems has also made agricultural cities mandatory. Members of parliament, with the implementation of agricultural cities and the socioeconomic development in rural settlements, the areas that will be a subject to terrorism propaganda will also be eliminated. Many social problems will be solved by preventing migration from village to city and disorderly urbanization. With experts and machine parks, which will guide agricultural production within the city, our farmer's agricultural activity inputs will be reduced, while agricultural culture will be improved by our producer. In the process of production, our farmers will be able to effectively use scientific and technological advances in the fight against harmful people, exterminating and harvesting process, starting with the quality of soil and seed. With the contribution of the productive troops and the government's leadership, the supply and processing of their products will increase the village's gain and financial prosperity. Increased financial prosperity will contribute to the development of the village and its municipality, which is part of agricultural cities. A reason for new generations to leave the village will be eliminated, thanks to educational institutions that will be strengthened in central villages. As a result of socioeconomic development, the ability to provide good education services, health care, insurance, and to leave the land of the village's population and embark on a migration adventure could be prevented by agricultural cities. Instead of migrating to cities, it is possible for our villages to become the center of attraction within the migration. Plans must be made to support agricultural-based industry in order to ensure this. This integration between agriculture and industry will also eliminate contracting farming practices and marketing problems in agricultural production. In agricultural production, intelligent technologies and automation will also ensure the quality of products. In addition, agricultural cities will prevent distorted urbanization, allowing them to create natural disasters such as earthquakes, storms, and floods, which have ecological urban properties, modern infrastructure, sewage treatments, and garbage collection. I mean, our country has an obligation to create resilient agricultural cities as soon as possible. These cities will allow our village to live in places where it is at peace with nature, improves agriculture's productivity, and in every way is safe. The problems of transportation, health, education, management and security will be solved and the infrastructure will be modernly planned. On this occasion, I would like to say that we expect the government and the Ministry of Agriculture to prioritize agricultural cities, which will be the basis of rural development in agricultural policies and planning, while wishing for the best budget of 2021. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit03spe0292par0278	Malatya MP Mehmet Celal Fendoğlu. Here you go, Mr. Fendoglu.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit03spe0293par0281	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you with respect to the great Turkish nation who are watching us on the screen. I have taken a pledge from the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry on the budgets of our ministry's institutions on behalf of the National Party for Action. I would like to begin with the words of Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, the founder of the last Turkish state: "The sword and the plow; the first of these two conquerors always lost to the second. The true owner and master of Turkey is the real manufacturer, the peasant. If most of our people were farmers, we wouldn't be on Earth today. The foundation of the national economy is agriculture. Since 1969, one of the most fundamental policies of the Nationalist Movement Party has been agriculture from the Republican People's Party to the National Movement Party. Our Prime Minister, Alparslan Turkesh, has bequeathed the doctrine of Nine Lights to target the great Turkish nation. One of the nine main objectives of the Nine Light doctrine is villagery. Our Prime Minister, Alparslan Turkesh, has noted in the principle of villagery in the Nine Light doctrine that he has stated that by combining villages into agricultural cities, he will improve villages, save loans and other aid needed by loan sharks, co-operativeisation, especially farmers living in the forest area, and invest in the village quickly and quickly. As representatives of the tradition that has brought us the legacy of our Prime Minister with honor and honor, which has brought us up to date with honor and honor, its legacy, its earthly desires, its country, its country, its country, its country, its cause, and its cause for its cause, to support the decisions that our government has taken in the field, while our country, in its capacity, will be in its favour of our country, and in the interests of our farmers, and in the interests of our farmers, who have basically made Anatolia the main home of the country, and in its history, to 107. Mr. President, good lawmakers are guarantees of agriculture, future, and even future. The blessings of the land are unity, unity and security. I'm a man who knows the language and language of the land, and I have a history and an acquish that closely follows the concerns, expectations, goals of our farmers, so I'm a peasant. It is not only seed that is sown in the fields; it is hope, it is imagination, it is heart, it is labor, it is heart. Thousands of years ago, mankind first started agriculture on our land, in Anatolia. Turkey is one of the world's leading countries in agriculture. Turkey is a net exporter in agriculture. Agricultural GDP is around $40 billion, while the total GDP is over 5 per cent. Agricultural products should be established in agricultural cities with rural attractive units, where agricultural partnerships are provided to promote investment and technology to rural areas, by diversification of agricultural products, increasing efficiency and quality, decentralisation and employment, by creating basic agricultural structures based on marketing as brands. The land database must be created. The fight against erosion must be activated and co-ordinated under land management. Agricultural land must be prevented from being used aimlessly. Farmers who have no land or sufficient land in the places where the move is primarily to produce agricultural production under the government's rule and savings should be given rent to other real or legal people over the fact that they do not demand it. Seeds are one of the most important things. Turkey must establish a national seed policy that it can pass on to future years and generations. Therefore, to strengthen agriculture in Turkey, the seeding sector must be supported. The prices of agricultural inputs, especially fertilizer, bait, electricity, are rising at a high rate, and our farmers need to be able to buy deposits like diesel, fertilizer, medicine, and bait at a reasonable price. According to BDDK, loans from agriculture, hunting and forestry are up to 126.5 billion dollars as of October 2020. The 5 billion per cent of these loans are in pursuit. Manufacturers should be given a chance to make up for their debts. Applying interest reductions in agricultural loans and continuing implementation of zero interest loans in the animal sector will contribute substantially to the sector. Organic-quality agricultural production should be further encouraged. Basin-based products, support programme, should be rearranged, considering regional advantages and disadvantages. No concrete steps have yet been taken regarding changes to Hal's law. Food security must be maintained, support programmes for sustaining our meat and milk needs in the country, increasing our animal assets, promoting artificial seeding for development of quantity should be continued. In this context, they must continue to support the plants. Mera detection and coercion should be completed quickly without disrupting the natural structure. The Meat and Milk Association and the Earth crop office should be more effectively structured as intervention institutions to organise the market. In this regard, I would like to thank our Minister, the General Manager, and the Malatian fellow citizens of Malatya, who have been with our farmers in Malatya, who have provided the apricots. [[A round of applause from MHP and AK PARTY]] Our farmer is in the production stage, and then he's exposed to natural disasters. In many of our provinces, the frost, hail and floods, our farmer was severely damaged, and our government quickly moved to act in the face of disasters, covering the wounds. There is still not enough legislation in our country for the protection of water assets and resources, which is a very important flaw. Water law must be passed immediately. Dear MPs, our forests are our national wealth. A tree is a murat, a divine art. Look at the seven hundred, eight hundred, thousand-year-old trees, a unique work of art, which is divine art. Green is the foundation and symbol of peace of peace. The forest is fresh air, and the fresh air is health. The hand that reaches into the forest is like the hand that reaches out to our lives. The forest and the tree are a symbol of beauty. The bed of the lovers is the bed of animals and insects. Everyone has an enemy, unplanned slaughter, a desire to open a field, an uncontrollable goat, especially forest fires, memory burning, terrorists' betrayals, tree love, low levels in society, enemies of forest, tree, and green. As our chief said, alms for the thorn as long as the tree endures is a gift, and alms for ever; and if any of you know that the Hour is coming, let him plant it. Dear lawmakers, our farmers have problems. It's also a pleasure to have these solved. In these difficult days, the decisions our government has taken against our farmers are appropriate and valuable. It is my wish that production costs be brought down, financial problems taken care of. The hands that embrace the earth are of prayer, above all praise and praise. Our farmers are the ones who love the land and work hard. The waking earth will resurrect the broken and broken dreams with blessing and glory, and will embrace their pure intentions like a mother in her vast bosom. Credit and debt must be left behind. The Turkish farmer must be brought to the levels he deserves, which is what the great Turkish state is capable of doing. Finally, there must be a staff for agricultural, forest and food engineers, civil engineers, veterinary physicians, technicians related to food, agriculture, forestry and livestock waiting to be appointed. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, those who have died of the coronavirus epidemic, those who have been treated in hospitals, I pray to God for a cure. I salute our Veteran Assembly and our nation. God be with you. Our loyalty is to the state and the great Turkish nation. Yours truly.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit03spe0294par0302	Mr. Saffet, our Alderman, is... Here you go, Mr. Sandzak.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit03spe0295par0304	Mr. President, I salute all of you, the esteemed MPs and the great Turkish nation watching us at the head of television. Three esteemed ministers of our cabinet, welcome. I'm going to talk about the Department of Youth and Sports. I've been a MP for three semesters, and I've been doing a lot of sports reviews here -- heavy constructive criticism -- and then how can we do solution proposals, and I've had a long talk about that, and hopefully the thing that I want most is going to happen soon, and I've talked to the minister today. What's this? There are major problems in Turkish football and Turkish sports. There's a law on that, a law that even though he's been in the House about four or five times in ten years, he doesn't want barons who go back and they can't get out, it's the law on sports clubs and sports federations. What's this? There's a lot of stuff in there, but I took two or three of it, and I want to share it with you. It'd be better if I gave it to you over football. Sports clubs have big debts. So I wrote down, very briefly, that our debt to Galatasaray, Fenerbahçe, Beşiktaş and Tripolispor is: In 2015, the debt to four of them increased by $4.7 billion, $13.1 billion in 2020, which is 178 per cent in five years. The debt of 18 teams in the Super League is 7 billion in 2017, 12 billion in 2019, and 2020 in 20 billion. Now, what does that tell you? It shows that the clubs have already sunk, and in a study with the President of the Banks Association and the Minister of Finance last year, the clubs have been seriously interfered with, but there's no way he can survive. Sure, why are these clubs like this? There are 20 teams in the Super League today -- 21 now, I think -- and 20 TFF 1s. In the league, there are about 400 or 500 managers, more or less. There's the 2nd leagues, there's the federation, there's that, there's 1,000 people running Turkish football in Turkey. You know, there's not one national footballer in 1,000 of those boards. Well, how can something go well in a place where there's not one national footballer on the board and there's not one guy involved? The Prophet said, "Give the work to the people. We've given it to the people completely backwards, now we're crying about why we've become like this." [[A round of applause from MHP and AK PARTY]] Now, I'm going to mention three things in this law, a lot of things, but one of them is... How'd you spend all this money? Most of them are businessmen, conglomerate bosses, so they know how to manage money. Their conglomerates are going to hell, God bless them more. The same guys run the club, the club goes down. Why? He has a personal responsibility in the holding company, he spends it out of his own pocket, he doesn't have it in clubs, he spends it as he pleases. Ver 5m euros, give 10m euros, give 20m euros. Now, in my opinion, there are two or three important things in this law, and I'm telling you one: Sports federations are not only in football, but other federations -- presidents or board members of the board -- will be personally responsible for the extra debt in their time, they will not be able to borrow outside their term. Now, after this bill comes out, give it to 10m euros, 20m euros from your pocket. If you can, go ahead. They won't. I've got another bad news for them. I'm talking about guys like this, these executives, the people who brought it here. There's a criteria now. You want to be president, you want to be manager, you want to be on the disciplinary board or on the other boards, there's a criteria. Criterian also reads quickly: "Even if the deadlines of Article 53 of Turkish Penal Code No. 5237, dated 26/9/2004, have passed, for a deliberate crime, for one year or more imprisonment or more, for the sake of the state's security, crimes committed against the state's security, the crime committed against constitutional order and the functioning of this order, listen to the embezzlement, bribery, theft, fraud, fraud, abuse of trust, fraud, misjudgment, miscreation, misdemeanor, misdemeanor of property, trafficking of property against the state's security, abuse of the state's security, abuse of the state, and then the president of drugs, who says, after that they are not to be involved in all these matters, they will not be involved in any way." So, why do I tell these guys the bad news is for them? This is a serious part of the people we've seen around us that won't be a manager anymore, not in the Football Federation, not in any other federation, not in any other club. Well, what's that gonna get us, of course? It'll bring control, and there'll be a system in the clubs. Then it doesn't matter who the club manager or the president or the manager is. So, here's where we're all interested in football, in some way, I'll ask you. Three of the top five clubs in the world: Manchester United, Real Madrid, Barcelona, Bayern Munich, Paris Saint-Germain, that's... I don't know either, guys, because it's not a big deal. Or who is the head of the Federation of those countries? That's not a big deal, either. Why? The system's set, the system's sitting, and it's working. He's the president, and it doesn't make much difference. I've contributed a little to this study with the Minister. Now, these friends, club presidents and managers say, "You can't find a manager, you can't find a president, you can't find a man to join the board."
tbmm-2020-12-14sit03spe0296par0311	I hope so.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit03spe0295par0312	You know why? He says if you set these criteria, we won't be able to come.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit03spe0296par0313	I hope so.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit03spe0295par0314	Well, that's what you've done. You've brought these clubs into this. Are you the only people in the entire Republic of Turkey who have no decent people to rule, decent people to rule, decent people to rule? (MHP, AK PARTY and CHP rows) I have bad news for them, unfortunately, and I have bad news: you will no longer be in this neighborhood. Now, of course, they're objecting. They're pressuring Mr. Secretary, and I've been called, so maybe they'll put pressure on me from now on. Minister, we will not submit to this pressure. They've been here for years, they've been playing horses, they've been doing what they want. Here comes the club's debt for $10 million, $500 million on the way. He walks away, then there's no responsibility. So why do these guys become presidents or managers in these clubs, do they love these colors, do they love this football?
tbmm-2020-12-14sit03spe0297par0316	They love money.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit03spe0298par0317	We will all support the Minister.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit03spe0295par0318	Thank you, Albany. We're all going to support Mr. Minister of Sports, and we're going to pass this law. (MHP and AK PARTY) 'Cause this is what I'm talking about, guys on top of politics. There's no mention of any party here, but of course, the Minister is here, he's the one who's going to bring it in, and this is the Supreme Assembly that's going to take it out. What I'm asking is, please, let's do this together.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit03spe0298par0320	Yeah.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit03spe0295par0321	Because it's about the future of Turkish sports and Turkish football. There's one other thing about the Federation, another beautiful substance. We, the National Movement Party, offered it as a law proposal last year. Federations are being elected, and the next thing you know, there's no president, no national athlete, no national athlete on the board. I said in the proposal of the law, let's do this: the Federation elections are being held -- they can't be done this year in 2020, but they can't be done because of the pandemic -- let's make it a condition that their president will be national in that department; at least two of them will be board members.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit03spe0298par0323	Sounds good to me.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit03spe0295par0324	Now, in this new law, it says that at least two people in that major will be on the board of nine.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit03spe0299par0325	Let's bring in those who know how to do it.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit03spe0295par0326	What's that gonna bring? Friends, I've become a national, I've had the honor, and Albany's here, it's done. Look, you've got to be a dragon, a Koran, to be on the national team. Turkey has 83 million people, 11 people play there; it's not an easy job. The guy who's come to this point, he can't manage the federation, he's a tourist, he's a builder, he's doing it, he's doing it. Now, here, in these majors, in all the federations, there's going to be two million athletes each, and what's that going to bring? 1) It will help increase prestige in that major, boost vision. 2) E, the Turkish nation is loyal, and we need to show some loyalty to these national athletes.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit03spe0299par0329	Liquor, merit.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit03spe0300par0330	Please, please.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit03spe0295par0331	They've raised the national flag, it's not that easy.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit03spe0300par0332	We started with Hamid. We started with Hamid.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit03spe0295par0333	Yeah, it's on the Board of the Football Federation this year. We have Hamid friends, Selim Abi, but they're not enough, we have to do this to all the federations. Now, there's a lot of people who want to argue with that, Mr. Secretary, never mind, no matter what anyone says. This law has to get out of here. I'm also asking all parties to support this bill.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit03spe0301par0335	We support it.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit03spe0295par0336	One more thing for you: maybe it won't be noticed now, maybe three years, five years, ten years, but...
tbmm-2020-12-14sit03spe0302par0338	We'll make history, history.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit03spe0303par0339	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit03spe0295par0340	A few years may not be noticed. What is it, what is it? But five years later, ten years later, you will make history with your team, Mr. Secretary. So we need to do something permanent. We're here in Congress, we're passing through, and I've been a congressman for three semesters, and I don't know if we'll ever be here or who won't be. Let's do something permanent, brand Turkish sports so... believe me, there's a lot of stuff, just because there's no time, I've told three of them -- it's going to revolutionize Turkish sports, so I'm asking all parties to support it. Of course, I didn't have much time today, so I had to talk to him for 20 minutes, split into two from 10 minutes, and on Thursday, hopefully, I'll talk about the second ten minutes. I'm going to present a project to Turkish youth and Turkish sports from here, and I'm going to tell you all about it, and I'm going to ask all of you for support. Of course it's about Mr. Secretary, but he won't be here, so I'll tell him later. As a nationalist movement party for Turkish sports and Turkish youth, as a sports representative, I will announce a new project from here. Thank you for listening to me. And good luck with your budget.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit03spe0304par0344	Congressman Olcay Pilot... Here you go, Mr. Pilot.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit03spe0305par0347	Mr. President, I salute the esteemed MPs, the General Assembly and the great Turkish nation. Mr. President, the valued lawmakers, Turkey is one of the world's leading countries with its young population. To have such a high young population is to gain in the name of our country and nation, wealth. Youth is the will to bring a nation into the future. All my hope is in youth. Turkish youth, who has sealed the eternal stones with the wise Khagan, Sultan Alparslan and Anatolian, who opened the door to the Turks, opened the door to the Turks, closed the era with Fatih, and sought victory in three continents, inspired by the Turkish culture and civilisation, who challenged the seven heifers with Ataturk, and who challenged the seven heifers of Ataturk, and the wisdom of Yasevi, from Yusuf Has Hacib, from the Kashgarlı, from Turkey, and the courage to love Turkish, and the wisdom of Kürshad, who found the advice in the Edebad, from the thousands of Turkish culture and civilisations, and the name of Turkey, in the direction of Turkey. The generation of Asim, as I was telling you, the truth of the generation did not violate its honor. We have historical duties against Turkish youth. It's impossible to develop countries that don't invest enough in youth. In this direction, I'd like to thank our Ministry of Youth and Sports for their successful work on Turkish youth. In youth-based studies, NGOs with the same goals are also of great importance. At this point, you are the source of our power, the altar of our hope, the guarantee of our future. The promise of our wise leader, Mr. State Garden Bey, is that you are the future, you are the future, the nation's love of youth, the nation's youth, and the work of the national culture and the work of education and culture that will preserve our national identity in the arts, in sports, in industry, in trade, in the academy, and in education, in culture and in the environmental sensibility of the future. (Applause from MHP rows) I give my thanks and congratulations to Mr. Ahmet Yiğit Yıldırım, our President of the UK in January. Mr. President, the successful fight against drug and substance abuse, which is the scourge of the century and the plague of our young, must continue with the cooperation of state, nation, family and civil society. Let us together with the spirit of the mobilization of the children, the cries of the sick mothers, the heart of the fathers. Let's take the fight against addiction to prevent the lambs from falling into this swamp and eradicate it with a more stable, planned, multi-directional study that results in its treatment. It is our duty to help our young people grow up with national and spiritual values against the destructive effects of cultural imperialism, to help them improve their knowledge and manners about Turkish culture, to speed up national awareness in the face of popular culture; to teach Turkish language, Turkish art, Turkish music, Turkish sports, traditional Turkish games, and to achieve our ideals according to Turk. It is vital to make attempts to remove shows and programmes that have negative effects on youth, to block ads on video-sharing sites that encourage gambling, bet, and all kinds of immoral behavior, to oversee social media platforms, especially to end the scandal called TikTok, to take precautions against computer games that trigger violence through cell phone and internet addiction. However, it is important to prioritize the cooperation between institutions in the creation of education, culture, art, sports and youth policies, and to make developmental activities at the point of solving social, spiritual and physical problems in the pandemic of the young population. Mr. President, we have a lot to learn from the young. First of all, it's very important to listen and understand our young people without prejudice, to keep their hopes alive for the future, to strengthen their sense of belonging to our country and our nation, to enable them to achieve their dreams and goals in this country, to show them that they will achieve many achievements such as Saint Sancar, to encourage employers at the point of finding jobs when they graduate. Their bodies, their minds, their creativity and their souls have unconditional confidence in our state and the great Turkish nation's youth, equipped with the highest and highest qualities that will add value to our country. Because Turkish youth is a grizzly that melts iron mountains out of Ergenekon, leading the Turk. At the same time, Turkish youth is the spirit that is waiting to be born from the ashes like Anka, to give power to our nation. You are the next generation to rise in the expression of Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk. We built the Republic, you will raise it, and you will keep it alive. (Applause from MHP rows) The faith that will change the world lies in your glorious and glorious past. The power you need is in the noble blood in your veins. The word is our word. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, we need to make sure that the sport, which is the way to strengthen the sense of brotherhood, is a bridge between tradition and the future. From an early age, we have to earn sports habits. It is important to build pocket sports halls that cover every major in the neighborhood, to work on the continuation of technofests, to be able to acquire the professions of the future, such as software and hardware specialists, artificial intelligence, robot production and code software, and to put the child protection program into practice in sports. In international sports organizations, our national sport should be allowed to meet our young role model athletes, such as Taha Akgül, Reza Kayaalp, İbrahim Çolalak and Ramil Guliyev, who wave our flag in wrestling and other majors, who are the Olympic and world champions. It is necessary for the country to explore talented athletes, to monitor and monitor their progress, to clarify the Olympic distinction in sports, to promote sports centres, Olympic prep centers and youth centers, to attract dorm fees to reasonable levels, to address the housing issue of our students, to maintain scholarships and loans in a way that meets the needs, to maintain traditional Turkish noble states and traditional Turkish sports camps, to promote and spread the Turkish world's youth camps. The pearl of our Mediterranean Mercury, which offers important contributions to our country with its historical fabric, cultural climate, fertile lands, unique and natural beauty, has the energy and potential to become the shining star of our country. Thus, as in the Mediterranean Games in the past, the home of the national and international sports organizations in the future, making our city the center of sports tourism, will contribute to Mersin and our country in every sense. For example, the successful implementation of the 2020 European Artistic Gymnastic Championships, in Mersin, has brought great joy and pride to our Mersinian citizens and to our nation, and I thank the Minister for his contributions.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit03spe0306par0357	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit03spe0305par0358	The construction of youth centers, sports halls and facilities in the cities and districts of Mersin will also encourage the youth of Mersin to exercise. With pinelias, Toros, Erdemli, Silifke, Bozyaz, Anamur, Mut, Gülnar should be increased by co-ordinating institutions and local governments. I'd like to thank the mayors who've been working on this. The Ministry of Youth and Sports, the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs wish our country, our nation, our state, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit03spe0306par0361	Erzurum MP Kamil Aydın. Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit03spe0307par0364	Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, the precious ministers and bureaucrats of our three departments that we have gathered today to discuss their budgets, I salute you all with my deepest feelings as I begin my words. Yes, I'd like to start with a sentence from a famous social anthropologist, Martin Bernal, in a book of 2 volumes, called Black Atena, that upset Western sociology. The excavations at Gobeklitepe have already proved exactly what he said. Together with mankind and mankind, the source of which civilization, light, or master Cemil Merich, is born and fed, is the east. Again, another sociological fact in this sense means that throughout history, migrations, walks, and futuals throughout human life -- whatever you call it -- have been towards the West. Why am I trying to say that? In particular in international relations, in order not to look one-way in foreign relations, it is another expression of peace in the land, peace in the world, and peace in the world, as our republic's Bani expressed in a very poor way. I said these things in the 21st century to say that the bipolarism in the Cold War was no longer very valid, but I mean, on the one hand, not like the East Bloc-West Bloc, or an Eurasian bloc that someone today is forced to express, as well as the transatlantic bloc. So, what's going to happen to us here? As Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk put it, making independence a character and displaying an international relationship stance, especially without disrupting the sovereignty in the slightest. This is the name of a position that needs to be put first in both domestic and foreign politics. So, just like our president expressed with a two-headed eagle, with a beautiful symbol, in one way, without forgetting the East, our values, without forgetting, without forgetting, without forgetting, that light comes from here, and in the other direction, with the other head, at the point of the conflicting civilisation. But what's important here is that it's not about surrendering to someone. So we've heard the talks so far. Now, in this yurtta, you have to understand and really understand the concept of peace in jihanda. On the contrary, there is no surrender here, nor is it a necessity to do everything on the table, on the table, on the table, on the table. Here, as we have just said, we defend our rights with instruments, from time to time in the field, without any compromise from our freedom and independence, from our sovereignty. Now, in the context of real international relations, we've witnessed some of the things that have happened so far or so far. In particular, sir, how do we aim... to say, "Hey Macron!" "Hey Michotakis!" "Hey Pashinyan!" "Hey Trump!" Why are we saying this? Well, now, friends, there's a reciprocity in international relations, so where Turkey is standing, there's no such situation as efficacy at a time like this, there's no basis for reciprocity here. So I'm waiting for someone to question the mentality that says, "Hey Erdogan!" I wonder what's behind this. (MHP and AK PARTY APPLAUSE) Let's get to a solution, why? For peace is not in the land, peace in the midst of it. It is no longer a form of retreat, of insubordinateness, of a sense of weakness. We can't afford to... Look, from 1949 on, in the international partnerships that we've been in, we've been dreaming, thinking, sir, inside, marketing, but not being able to object, or in return for the embargos, these are the psychological disorders that we've been eating, and that's what's driving us to be completely introverted in this sense. What did he say? Why did they say that? I mean, why is Macron suddenly giving us the benefit of the doubt? Because we are now in the Mediterranean, because for the first time we have begun the search for hydrocarbons there, we have drilled in the Black Sea, we have removed the issues of Cyprus from the refrigerator, we have solved a forty-six-year issue in one day, we have opened Maras. I mean, why aren't we seeing this? For the first time in a 28-year-old, thirty-year-old Karabakh, it has been said to be supported with open, clear goods, with life, with all beings. And believe me, many of the real opponents have seen and confessed these achievements, and now I'm going to read from the first source. The British Foreign Minister says: "Unfortunately keeping Turkey away from international weapons production points has taken Turkey to produce its own weapons. " I mean, we've been bad neighbors, we've been bad allies, but we've also made it our home," he said. Look, the statement from two days ago, the statements from Mr. Wallace. (MHP and AK PARTY APPLAUSE) Now, we can multiply these. Again, he made similar statements that once contributed to regime projects in Turkey with someone on both sides of the strait, and two days ago he fell to the press. It says that Turkey is an old Turkey now, which we've ordered, directed, sir, needs help, a piece of carrots, a stick is not in the structure we see. Now the countries of the European Union and the United States have to perceive it, understand it, and take a position according to it. Now, those who say that really don't get any attention. But why did we object to France, to Macron? I'll tell you now. So as people who are truly independent, we, the Nationalist Movement Party, said it yesterday, and today we will say that we have nothing to fear, nothing to fear from anyone. We are a movement that moves by means of the root of the one who plucks our branches. [[A round of applause from MHP and AK PARTY]] Now, France is going to reform my religion, call French Islam, German Islam, and shut down my mosques, where my citizens will be subjected to a thousand persecutions, and I won't be able to say, "Hey Macron! I won't have a temple in Greece, when Turkishism is exploited in West Thrace, when it cries out, what are you doing? Don't you think you should know your place? Pashinyana, in the name of ending twenty-eight years of persecution, shall we not say to you, Pashinyan, know your place in order to wipe out the shame of that Boraltan Bridge? We'll say it in public, we'll say it together. Look, let me share an individual moment. In the early 90s, when the late Inönu came to London for a meeting when he was Deputy Prime Minister, believe me -- I don't come from a left source as a resource, but as everyone knows -- there was an Erdal Inönu representing Turkey. Believe me, that's our, that's the long-term view of Turkish nationalists. He's there on behalf of my country, representing my country. We stood firm against the booing of the Armenian and especially the Greek lobby, those groups. More than that, he also fell to the press: A former Ambassador, Syrian Representative -- now that they've started saying, "O Erdogan! O Gardener!," because they really see the will of the Cumhur Alliance in particular in international relations -- which of them we can only be able to achieve such success?" he says: "Sir, the SDG people are good children. In fact, the National Movement Party prevents this from happening, what we think is happening in Syria. Now let me decipher this man: He says, "Here is the meeting, Mr. Ambassador, when the Prime Minister of the period tries to approach the matter with a special question about our President." (MHP and AK PARTY) (Applause) (Applause) (We are your jurisprudence here; we may be any opposition here to our country, we may be power, but we are not in a position to pursue matters related to our domestic politics.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit03spe0308par0376	The year is 2020.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit03spe0307par0377	Now, sir, in the U.S. Army... let's talk real politics, all ten years, twenty years ago... so you're telling the human, the academic on the bench: ▪ Tell me about the Renaissance. He's coming to the stand, he says: let me tell you about the Middle Ages first. &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt;Tell me about the real politics today.&lt;/i&gt;Tell me about the day.&lt;/i&gt; &lt;i&gt;Tell me about the day.&lt;/i&gt; &lt;i&gt; Ten years ago -- eight, ten, fifteen -- they're starting to do the battle; there's no need for that. Now, let me tell you something real: 70 suicides, 7 murders after a rape complaint, 70 suicides, 150 soldiers -- from 2016 to 2020. Now, imagine if there was such a thing in our country. I can't accept it as a conscientious citizen of the Republic of Turkey when things are overrated. In France, believe me, one of the eight women is being raped, and we have statistical information. That's 12 percent, that's terrible. But believe me, there are some very valuable friends here -- from other parties of the delegation here -- in the European Parliament of Karma, in the Parliamentary Assembly of NATO, in the OSCE -- after there was an incident in Turkey, the apocalypse broke out, in turn, against Turkey. Can you imagine, even further, why did you open Ayasofya? Still, there are those who are trying to see Turkey with such common sense, until the sovereignty reaches its limits. In fact, a Dane couldn't take the speed and said, "Let's get Turkey out of NATO." Stoltenberg laughed and said there are as many refugees in Turkey as there are in Denmark. So what's etin, what's your leg? Fear God. Fear God. (MHP and AK PARTY) Turkey was the strongest army in the south wing of NATO. Without Turkey, this geography would have been completely handed over in 40 years during the cold war. He now says: "There is no fighting ISIS without Turkey." He illustrates that 4,000-odd ISIS terrorists have been eliminated, Mr. NATO Secretary General said this, the official mouth. Now, it's hard when we say it, but he said it. Let him go. An ISIS man has been captured in Adana. His plans have been made public. In his computer, we'll bomb Ayasofya. I need 10 brave men. Three live bombs in Adana. In Istanbul, we will kidnap famous people, especially lawmakers, and create chaos. The ISIS terrorist we arrested and sent to Austria was followed in Turkey for two years, documented, and the Austrian authorities were given information about him when he was deported, but they didn't believe it, and they didn't believe it, and they released him in Vienna, and three Austrians were killed by the bomb he had detonated or caused. Now, fellas, why are we saying this? Really, at least in the international context, one of us, all of us, has to put it on the field and apply it to one of us. God forbid, because we really don't have any friends but us. I say we stick to the values that make us who we are. I'm running out of time, so I'd like to say good-bye with another verse like this. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] My Mehmed, rejoice, the heads are high! Whether we die or go home! Don't think this wheel stays on the bump! Tomorrow, we shall have it, and it will be ours. The day is up, the day is down, the midwife is ours! [[A round of applause from MHP and AK PARTY]] Now, why did I read this verse? They don't even know this verse, Necip Fazil. I'm just saying it as a gift to the brave Mehmets who rode on the tank and went to Redimalmah. I salute our High Council.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit03spe0309par0393	Mr. Ismail Özdemir of Kayseri... Here you go, Mr. Özdemir.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit03spe0310par0396	Mr. President, Mr. Ministers, valued MPs, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on the budgets of the President of the European Union and the Turkish Accreditation Agency. I salute our Veteran Assembly with love and respect. Shortly after the establishment of the European Economic Community, the foundation of the European Union, in 1958, Turkey applied for partnership in the Community on 31 July 1959. Later, Turkey's application was welcomed and signed on September 12, 1963. At the summit held in Helsinki in December 1999, Turkey's candidacy was officially approved and it was made clear that it would be equal to other candidate countries. After that, our country has taken many steps in legal and practical terms regarding accession talks. Sadly, though, he has been playing around with unremarkable excuses for the past fifty-seven years. Despite our country's sincere and zealous attitude, even countries that cannot be compared to Turkey have been accepted as members of the Union, and we are unfortunately adopted by a double attitude. Moreover, it is not possible to say that Turkey has been treated equally. Moreover, it has reached the point of taking some illegal steps by the European Union in time. For example, the Cyprus issue has raised many problems with the fact that one entity could not be included in another international union without any solutions, while the Greek Cypriot part as a member of the European Union in 2004. Even today, the developments in both Cyprus and the Eastern Mediterranean are also at the root of the European Union's wrong, regional peace and stability. Another concrete version of the European Union's non-serious position on our country has shown itself in the process of visa exemption signed on December 16, 2013, and in the process of re-accession. In this framework, after the civil war in Syria, the condensation of migrations across the border has been a social, economic and political pressure on Europe, while Brussels' regulars who want to deal with Turkey to get rid of the influence took a different turn in the later stages. Turkey has fulfilled all of its responsibilities in the resuscitation agreement, but the European Union has not fulfilled its obligations. Moreover, Turkey has shown its responsibility to be a human and conscientious state against asylum seekers, while the European Union has ignored the values it stands for and has shown that it contradicts its values because of the human shame shown against asylum seekers at the borders of Mediterranean and member states. Despite all these problems, Turkey has not deviated from its bid for membership, but the European Union is still looking out for terrorist organizations operating against our country; further, it is beginning to take on non-friendly positions, partnerships with the actions they engaged in in Cyprus, the Eastern Mediterranean and Libya. The main thing each environment must understand is that Turkey advocates its rights to sovereignty in the Eastern Mediterranean. Our country favours the right and fair division of the region in accordance with law and conscience, and has declared itself open to this constructive dialogue at every turn, not tension, but diplomacy. It is Greece and the Greek Cypriots who have armed the islands that should be unarmed and without soldiers every day, who embrace approaches in international law, who think Turkey can take away its rights. The European Union, especially when it comes to the appointment of eastern Mediterranean and naval jurisdictions, is the best of those who need to understand that naval jurisdictions will not be the same as the land states. Here, the naval jurisdiction of the islands shows itself in the law again. In this sense, there are precedents made by the International Court of Justice in some member states' conflict in the same direction. These decisions make it very clear that Turkey is right and that Greece is wrong. Today, our country has the longest coastline in the eastern Mediterranean with a length of 1,870km. However, it is expected only to compromise our sovereignty with the thesis to be contained in the Gulf of Antalya. Well, that's not acceptable. As for Cyprus, Turkey is a guarantor country, but the European Union has no legal or legitimate obligation to the island. The fact that the Greek Cypriot part was taken as a member will not make themselves entitled to Cyprus. No one should expect our country to step down from its legitimate determination to protect the rights and interests of Turkish Cypriots. We also know that for many years most European countries have been feeding, protecting, and protecting terrorist organizations that have been operating against our country. Today, the PKK, the DHKP-C, and the leaders of the terrorist organization still reside in various parts of Europe. Moreover, Turkey is a NATO member, like most European countries, who are members of the Union. However, it is impossible to say that our sensitivities in the field of counterterrorism have been fully monitored by our European dealings. In fact, in most chapters that have been opened from time to time in accession talks, we are also asked to be engaged in agendas that can provide ground and space for terrorist organisations. After the start of the Syrian civil war, terrorist acts in various parts of Europe have resulted in the painful experience of Turkey's sensitivity to the fight against terrorism and its rightful motives. It is not possible to discriminate between terrorist organisations, whether they are good or bad, based on their ideology. Sadly, some European countries have yet to discern that fact. Every terrorist organization is an enemy of humanity, not just of one country, but of humanity's common enemies. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, under Operation Irine, which was carried out by the European Union on 23 November 2020, the intervention of a ship with humanitarian aid will never be accepted. The treatment of our ship and its staff, which was fully pirated by soldiers of the German Marine Corps under the command of a Greek commander, has no doubt been an expression of the European Union's hypocrisy about Libya as well as an open violation of international law. In an action outside NATO scope, a ship carrying the flag of our NATO member country was clearly targeted. Europe, which stopped humanitarian ships in the Mediterranean, has added a new black spot to its record as well as its shareholders who drove refugees to death in the middle of the sea. The European Union, thus far, remains silent on the help reaching the coupker Hafter, in Libya, should be considered. So far, it is clear that a heavy shipment of weapons for Hafter forces has been made, and it has been detected by the United Nations. In fact, it has been confirmed by reports from the United Nations that during the days leading up to the start of the Libyan civil war, France was also aiding Hafter. However, the European Union's focus is only on the National Covenant Government. This was also an argument among the European Union member states, and Malta announced that it was withdrawn from Operation Irini. Of course, all this will never bring us back from fulfilling our commitments to Libya, from our determination to defend our rights in the Eastern Mediterranean. Those who think Turkey and the Turkish nation can shave their beards in the Mediterranean are forced to risk losing their arms. [[A round of applause from MHP and AK PARTY]] Today, the European Union gives its view of some member states, rather than implementing their own values and policies, rather than observing the Union's general sensitivity, to the fact that they are trapped on the agenda of some member states. The European Union may, of course, display its own appearance of membership solidarity, but it is wrong to follow illegal, baseless, conscientious and immoral politics against Turkey. If that is how it is thought to contribute to the motivation of the Union, it will soon be seen how much error and heavy loss it will cause. It would not be right for European decision-makers to focus on problems that are in the middle in every direction and are growing like mountains from day to day and to adopt an anti-country stance rather than co-operate with Turkey. The recent use of France's crooked and hostile policies and the European Union of Greece and Greece's non-lawless and non-compromising approaches to the Union is destroying the reputation and dignity of the Union. As a matter of fact, you know the Greek Prime Minister's statement in a television programme before the final Leaders' Summit of 2020 that he managed to turn his conflict with our country into a dispute between Turkey and the European Union. In such an agenda, the use of sentences that occasionally involve sanctions against our country will not go beyond the cof accounts, clouding the importance of Turkey's power and potential. The main problems, such as the lack of a solution to structural reforms for a long time, the emergence of ambitious countries in terms of governance and representation, the growing power of racist political and social currents across the continent, Britain's decision to quit membership, and the eventual failure of the Union to meet the expectations of member states in the Covid-19 epidemic, and then the recovery of the wounds of the European Union itself. With all this, developments in the European Union's standing as an outcast of Turkey and closing the door to full membership have led Turkey to a fork in the road. In this scope, the National Movement Party assesses that Turkey is not obliged to drift in orbit around the European Union at all costs, in prison and in need. Members of parliament, the decisionmakers in Europe today have to remember two basic facts: the first is that there is no mention of European history without the Turkish nation and the state. Second, again, it is impossible for Europe to build a healthy future without developing a reasonable partnership with Turkey in the environment of security, stability and peace. Because the challenges faced by the European Union, the unpredictability and sudden development of agendas, the fact that trust in membership is shaken within the Union, the rise of global competition, and very different topics suggest that co-operation with our country should be developed at a reasonable and expected level. This reality shows itself in the economic field as well as in political and security areas. Our country is the fifth largest trade partner in the European Union. Given the data from the previous year, the volume of trade between us amounted to 145 billion dollars; more than 76 billion dollars of this includes exports, while about 68 billion dollars of that includes imports. Half the countries that already ranked the first 20 places in our exports are members of the European Union. Therefore, there is a mutual and irrefutable addiction in economics. This matter of reality must be dealt with well. At this stage, the Customs Union Agreement has not yet been revised and the consideration of our country's sensitivities. Another issue to focus on is the level of rising racism, anti-Islamic and Turkishism in Europe. There is no doubt that racism and alien hostility, which have begun to rise in Europe today, have begun to become worrying dimensions from day to day. Islamophobic rhetoric and actions are no longer just issues that are being carried out by small and marginal groups. Most political-based parties use foreign opposition as an instrument of suppression and influence of their policies in European countries. Sadly, from time to time, our citizens who live abroad are also affected by the ugly metaphors that we will never accept of our holy religion, Islam, and our two humble servers, our beloved Prophet. According to OHR data, a total of 128 attacks against Turkish citizens living abroad were determined in 2018, with religious and racist saiks, and by 2019 the number increased to 253. Attacks targeting our citizens have increased by almost 100 percent in a year. This situation is alarming, but more alarming, as in French President Macron's example, it is seen that even 10-year-olds are entering a dark period in which they are being targeted. To target Islam and to arrest children, there is no way that a sense of peace has preceded it. Today, those who believe that by producing ISIS-like terrorist organizations in political and intelligence labs, they have laid the foundations of our great religion, of the idea that they would persecute Muslims, will surely drown in their own mistakes. Our wish is that this warped mentality does not remain in any area of the political and social field in Europe. If this dark spirit re-enacts on the continent, it can't be undone, and the outcomes that have been known to bring humanity back to severe conditions. In this scope, I welcome the budgets of the President of the European Union and the Turkish Accreditation Agency and the budget of our Ministry of Foreign Affairs for 2021 to be a source of good, and the Ministry wishes our staff the highest benefits, saying we support the budget, and greeting our Veterans Assembly with love and respect.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit03spe0311par0414	The talks on behalf of the National Party for Action are complete. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0311par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 31st Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will resume negotiations with the Central Management Budget Law Proposal of 2021 and the Central Management Law of 2019, where we left off. The commission is in place. Now, on behalf of the People's Democratic Party, Mr. Ridvan Turan, MP of Mersin. Here you go, Mr. Turan.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0312par0007	Mr. President, you are well prepared and worthy ministers, and I salute you all. We have money that we import. I made a promise on the budget of the ministry. I hereby bow before the workers of agriculture, the poor peasants, the territorial villagers, all over the country, and bow before our imprisoned party members, our party comrades, and salute them with my most sincere revolutionary feelings. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Dear friends, we've been talking about budgets for days, and no one's ever said I've grown sour from God. All the ministries are doing just fine. A minister came out, and he said: "There is nothing wrong with poverty in the country." In fact, he said, poverty is no longer a problem, hunger is a problem now; the issue has become even more radical. For 18 years, this is the 19th budget, am I right? If you're doing the public's budget, why have the valuable AKP people been getting rich all the time for 18 years, while the people are getting poor all the time? I have no wealth but this wedding ring, which comes with a wedding ring. Why is he sitting in palaces now -- walking, flying -- and building palaces, two or three -- and why do most of the people face poverty? Dear friends, you're experiencing a tremendous alienation. Dear Minister, my word to you is that you are experiencing an extraordinary alienation to the public and its values and politics. A minister came out. He said that not every case is sick. He is not sick. Some of what he said died. Another minister said it was okay for the EBA to collapse. Thousands of students were deprived of education. Someone said, "The Kur is not important to me. We don't know what happened to him, we don't hear from him." Our Minister says -- he says here -- that the price of meat is not high. He went on for two years and said: "The farmers have been making record revenues. " A survey has been conducted in the past days -- I don't know if you can see -- what do you call this question in that survey? It's asked farmers, like 70 percent of the time, and the farmer doesn't know about the farmers. That's what the villagers say, don't shoot the messenger. There are constant myths being created, constantly marketing those who appear to exist but are not, and one of them is that we are the world's 1st member of the internationally illegal national product. Look, there's no practical side to this. For one thing, this can't be a comparison. You can't compare Turkey, which has 780,000 square kilometers and 23 million hectares of agricultural land, not to Liechtenstein, not to Monako, not to Switzerland, not to Germany, or even to Germany -- I'll tell you more -- to France, that's not possible. The issue is this: This thing called the gayrisafi national product is measured by current prices. Look, I'll make you a suggestion, Mr. Secretary, to make you more successful in agriculture: Double the price of agricultural products in Turkey, so that your informal nationality increases twice as much. You can't explain the situation of the country workers, such as the peasants, the poor, the landless villagers, that's not possible. It's not possible, but I think, since the time of Mehdi Eker, my brother, we're European 1st in agricultural non-profits, we're world-knowing fugitives, we're marketed without any scientific or objective basis. This is not something that shows and guarantees the well-being of anyone in our agricultural sector, but the AKP propaganda machine directs and tries to achieve political results, dear friends. If you're looking for something, I'll tell you what to look for. For example, look at the foreign trade. Here, look -- I've looked at this, and I've done this myself -- on foreign trade terms, Mr. Secretary, when you take into account the ratio between exports and imports, it's written here that you've been importing from when you came to power. If anyone wants to know, I'll tell them. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Everything I'm going to say in this conversation is something referred to by TİK, BDK and the Ministry, based on their data. For example, you're saying that in 2009 we grew up to be 3.7. So, Mr. Secretary, when you say that when you take power, why don't you tell me that Turkey grew 8.7% in agriculture and dropped it to 3.7 percent where it came in today? Is that a thing? You're doing a cunning thing, Dear Minister: By comparing a year ago to a year later, you write in your report card what might be good, what is good, and what is good, and what is good, and what we have multiplied. But since you've come to power, whatever it is that's happened so far, we need to talk about it. Here, when you came to power, there was a Turkish agricultural sector that grew by 8.7 percent, now 3.7. What did the Minister tell us in the budget? He said: "This year we grew up with 3.7. " If you grew up, my brother, you've actually grown smaller, that's the essence of what you're talking about. For example, Mr. Secretary, why don't you tell us why you're doing 30 to 60 percent of agriculture support, not less than 1 percent of what you made a law in 2006? Why don't you talk about it? You're talking about success, why don't you tell me about the fact that you've flooded 3.5 million hectares of land with concrete? You're just talking about success. We're talking about an agricultural field that's fallen from 26 and a half million hectares to 23 million hectares, which is terrible, terrible; it's worth more than a lot of European countries, and it's worth two Thracians, dear friends. Over the course of 18 years, the government has flooded two Thracians with concrete. Is there anything to be proud of, something to be honored about? Look, 661 thousand people are out of the Farmer's Recording System. Dear Minister, you're not telling the public the truth. If you're going to say it, look, say it. Why are over 600 thousand people out of the Farmer's Recording System? According to the BDK, do you know what is the status of 1,964 of the 2,11,000 people in the CKS? The agricultural area is mortgaged, so 92.5 per cent of its agricultural area is mortgaged by banks. Dear Minister, if you're drawing a painting, why don't you tell the public about it? Why don't you give people the right information?
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0313par0018	Minister, resign! Minister, resign!
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0312par0019	Look, in terms of agricultural employment, you've now reduced the process you took with 7,500,000 people and started with 34 per cent employment, to 5.4 per cent of the employment rate, and I'm not making it up myself. Dear Minister, why don't you tell people about this? In the world, we are like this in Europe. Do you feel that the people do not need to know? Agriculture and forestry foreign trade; see, TİK data again: since the AKP is in power, it has imported $115 billion in exports of 82 million. That's not importing, but what is, my dear friends? But the Minister doesn't talk about it either. Agriculture and animalism: From the time you again came to power, you've imported 82 billion exports and 112 billion imports from valuable AKP people. Look, it's not my numbers, it's TÜİK.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0314par0022	It's for imports, interim goods.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0312par0023	TÜİK is blessed that it can't play with the numbers in the past, it can only play with the numbers now; otherwise you would have played with them.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0314par0025	It's for imports.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0312par0026	Come on, tell me this: 600,000 agricultural businesses have been destroyed since the AKP came to power...
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0314par0027	Look at those openings.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0312par0028	...and the support is down 17 million. Dear Minister, why don't you ever talk about this? The cattle trade: when we exported $11 million in cattle, we imported 7 billion or so cattle; dear friends, Precious Minister, don't miss them. The sheep trade -- it's TİK data again -- has 359 million imports against 83 million exports. Seeds, imports, straws, $20 million. You've only spent $20 million on hay all your power. What can I tell you? Fertilizer: There's only $2 billion in exports against $20 billion in imports.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0315par0031	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0312par0032	What else? Fertilizer prices have increased by 600 to 700 percent. I'm not talking about the farmer's debts, it's become a big mess. Now, Precious Minister, look, if you're going to walk the road the way you've come this far, then I want to tell you that there's no way out of here, that I'm running a polemic with you. Neoliberal policies, corporate agriculture, industrial agriculture are of no use to this country. With 22 billion support, which of these problems will you solve? How are you going to solve these matters without involving the peasant in the debt configuration? There's a weird budget, an unfair budget. Yeah, there's no concept of rural, there's no cooperatives. You raise 50 cents on milk for $2.30, the milkmen invite you to the barn, Mr. Secretary, and they say: "Let him come with us one day, let him see how milk is produced, and then let him talk about how 50 cents is raised." Look, there's over 21 percent food inflation. In this country, seasonal workers work for 50 lira a day. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Can I have a minute to greet you?
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0316par0037	Here, let's say hello.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0312par0038	There's a lot of irregularities and corruption in your ministry, which has written a number of sheets. Agriculture engineers, veterinarians, water products engineers, technicians, they're all waiting for work, Mr. Secretary. Forest fires don't get interrupted in time. What's the matter with you and the mountain goats, Mr. Secretary? (APPLAUSE) There are killers coming from America, and he's keeping the goats of Hizir here to shoot them! What is your problem with the wealth of this country? Dear friends, dear Regents, look, the solution is this: One, you need to get away from neoliberal policies. Instead, there is a need for an agricultural policy that is based on social, publicist, cooperatives, that protects poor peasantry, women and inequality, and, secondly, it is essential that the Kurdish issue be resolved democratically and politically in order to find peace in this country, people need to go to their pasture, to farm, to graze their sheep. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Without these two, these policies are only a new visa for international agricultural monopolyes. In that sense, I salute you all.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0317par0045	Mr. Sait Dede... Here you go, Mr. Grandpa.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0318par0048	Mr. President, before we express our views on the state Water Affairs General Directorate budget, this is where I send greetings to all our comrades who are currently being held hostage in prison, Figen Yüksekdağ, Selçuk Yaşar, Selçaklı, Remziye Yaşar and Jahan Kahraman. [[Applause from HDP rows]] We see an increase in the central management budget of 2021, but we know that they will not use water and related land resources to provide water resources in accordance with science and technique. This institution has two important tasks at the point of serving war and security policies for power and funding for the side. The first is to build dams under the name of creating a source of energy as an instrument of the anti-humanization policies of our geography; the aim of dehumanizing Kurdish geography with HES projects; a cultural, historical, historical and ecological slaughter by watering down historical heritage. Look, Hassankeyf, who has twelve thousand years of history, has now been flooded. This mentality is a mindset that opposes not only man, but wolf, bird, and nature. The nearest example of this is the Pink Dam, which was built in Dersim. With this dam, wild goats found in the Dersim-Bingöl-Plassage area are drowned today. I am also responsible for the sheep which was once taken by Dicle. The AKP's president, who said today, did not leave any sheep or sheep to be drowned on the edge of Dicle, Fırat. As for the survivors, we see that they have been given a contract to a US businessman to kill with hunters. Secondly, all institutions -- the DSI -- have been turned into comrades, enemies of man, history, culture, and nature. There are many findings in the Court's reports that need to be cleared, moved to the judiciary, but unfortunately, no investigation is being launched, while we are facing an opportunistic organization in the Ministry of Agriculture, which blocks farmers' support money because they can't pay their debts. When we look at the institution's applications, we can see how the government is moving water into its helm. We also see very well how the State Waterworks deals with electricity distribution companies under different names such as TEDADAŞ, DEDAŞ, how it leaves citizens without electricity or water; how it leaves them without water; and how it is like in Suzaş, along with the law enforcement forces, using armored vehicles, gas bombs, sometimes by morning raids, and by morning raids, it victimizes citizens under the name of Åtremetem. What was he saying, AKP President? Fifteen years ago in Turkey, were we able to find ovens in houses, and were we able to find refrigerators in houses? There is no electricity in the houses now.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0319par0053	Yeah, yeah.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0318par0054	The village of Esendere of Hakkari (Hakkari) has been without electricity for days at a time. Our people who can't leave their homes because of their pandemics can't leave their homes in the dark, the students can't study because of the VEDASH, which can't electrocute them. Of course, it's not a problem for power; it's the power's problem for his ally to have his pocket filled, the delivery companies' safes filled. There was no electricity in Esendere, and the disciples remained in the dark; that is not the issue of power. The Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry has prepared a study for each city called the Regional Investment Guide, a 10-point framework for the agricultural potential of the province in Hakkari Agricultural Investment Guide. See, the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry says for Hakkari, that because 52 percent of the land of Ilin is made up of meadows and meadows, it is suitable for the development of livestock. Due to the geographical structure of the province and the importance of the mera fields, small - head animalism is appropriate for development.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0319par0056	50%...
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0318par0057	I'll answer. The rich fluorine and fauna structure of the province are ecologically suitable for beekeeping and development. Near the growing of endemic species in the province are climate areas that are suitable for growing kiwi, figs, sesame, and pomegranates. Now I'd like to ask the Minister if he's the Minister of another country. For in Hakkari, there is no pasture, no pasture, and no pasture. Because it's almost every square inch of security in Hakkari. Because in Hakkari, you have to go through security checkpoints to get from one neighborhood to another. Because in Hakkari, a shepherd can be shot with a soldier's bullet while grazing his livestock. Because a woman in Hakkari is able to bring food to her children who cut grass, and she can be shot again with a soldier's bullet; and the shot is promoted, and the bullet is left to the citizen in Hakkari.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0320par0061	You're the owner!
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0321par0063	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0318par0064	Almost all farms and livestock in Kurdish cities are banned regularly by governorates; you can see this on the website of Hakkari Governorate.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0320par0065	Why is it forbidden?
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0318par0066	Citizens, stop grazing their animals, they're worried about their lives.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0320par0067	Why is it forbidden?
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0318par0068	It is forbidden due to the lack of solution to the Kurdish problem.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0320par0069	For God's sake, don't either.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0318par0070	Apart from these prohibitions, many mera and barracks have been built with outposts, and our citizens who deal in agriculture and livestock are being victimised. Finally, there is no such place as Mera because there will be a police station in the village of Esendere County. So I want to tell the Minister of Agriculture that send this report to the Minister of Defense and the Minister of Interior first, and then you'll see that all the potentials written here will crash into the security barriers, which are the main policy of power. The Interior Minister, who seized the public's money for confiscating his property, says that Hakkari was made into a city where festivals were held.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0322par0073	Right.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0318par0074	Either you're all unaware of each other, or you're performing a tremendous theatre performance in a place where death, bans, security policies run wild; it's all on paper. [[Applause from HDP rows]] [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0323par0079	Yeah, give up the terror, give up the terror, everything's gonna be a sight for sore eyes.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0324par0080	Mr. Muazzez Orhan Light... Here you are, Mr. Orhan Light.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0325par0083	Mr. President, I salute the General Assembly. Dear friends, two basic sources of life are air and water. As you know, not all creatures can survive without these two resources. Thus, the course of water and air directly affects accessibility, hygiene, pollution, life. Global warming, the lack of protection of farmers' products against droughts and frosts, air pollution, and multidimensional problems such as Covid, which your government contributes to with its policies, is directly about air. According to the Air Pollution Report of the Environmental Engineers Room, 30,000 people die each year in Turkey due to air pollution. In many cities, where Van is among them, the proportions of sulfur dioxide threaten human life. Even though some places like Sivas Kangal, Milas, Kören run thermal plants, why do they not measure air pollution? According to Europe, the number of particles in the air, more than 30 per cent in our country, is increasing day by day. More than 75 million people breathe dirty air as a result of energy production based on fossil fuels, the use of industrial, unsupervised agricultural medicines based on polluting nature, your unsupervised policies, such as cheap coal, which you vote for free. You and your policies have no respect for humanity or the right to live. During your reign, the forests of the North Forests, the Kaz Mountains, the Toros, Mount Cudi were plundered. There are no forests in the Aegean, where the mining companies did not enter the Black Sea. Forests have been burned in many areas, especially in the districts of Dersim and Şırnak. These fires were not interfered, nor were they allowed to intervene, nor were they allowed to be extinguished. While the forests were burning in our territory, with their images in public, you let the fires grow and the living things die there. You have a mindset that doesn't interfere with fires, which doesn't, because you're an enemy of nature and life, and you have a mind that discriminates even between forests. For security reasons or for building, building, building forest areas that have been burned in a suspicious manner, chasing after your followers has brought to light the hostility of your power to life and nature. There is no reason to destroy the right of life of future generations and creatures. Dear friends, water is so important that the question is, is there life in space? Is there water? The question is the same. There's only one place in space where there's water and life, and that's the world. You're turning life and water into a business, a land area, a meta, basically the country and the world into hell. During your time of power, water resources were contaminated, and HESS was corrupted, and commercialized. You've got your eyes full of rants and you're destroying the ecosystem irreversibly. Despite all the objections of the people, we need the money. You keep saying, "We need the money." WHEREsoever you do, you destroy your life in Zilan, and in Çatak, and in Muradijah, and all over the land. You're destroying pearl kephalini in Van. Water is not only necessary for human life, but for all living things. You see water as a profitable meta. Instead of solving people's drinking water problems in many places, you turned water into a commercial vehicle. But water is life, and life cannot be sold. You guys even use water that's the source of life for your war policies. If it were up to you, you would cut off the waters of all the rivers that go to Syria, and to the peoples of Rojava. Your gangs burn the fields of the people in Rojava, and leave the fields that they cannot burn without water. The gangs you support are known to have water shortages at the Aluq Water Plant in Haseke region at least 20 times this year. Since this loot affected the lives of 460,000 civilians, the issue has been moved to the United Nations agenda. You are no better than Jezid, who made men thirsty in Kerbalah.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0326par0090	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0325par0091	The security approach to the Kurdish issue, which has been a historical and social issue for over a hundred years, leads to natural, ecology and social decomposition at the moment. Any intervention in ecology and ecosystems affects all living and lifeless beings. You're in here, too. Maintaining and caring for ecological life is not a choice, but a necessity for the continuity of life. We say over and over again: for clean air, environment and water, energy, industry, not transportation, but nature and society are essential. In the name of all the peoples who have given us authority, we reject this war and the runt budget of the palace. I salute all our people.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0326par0094	Mr. Dersim Mountain, Diyarbakır MP... Here you go, Mr. Mountain.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0327par0097	Dear President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Dear friends, today we're talking about the budget of the Ministry of Youth and Sports, but there's no budget in 2021 for young people who make up 16 percent of the population. He preferred the budget of the palace and the war this year rather than the budget of the ruling women, the young people, and the only thing the government has offered to the 13 million young people is poverty, hunger, poverty, and a whole future. Because of his pandemic, young people continue their education online. The teachers and students, which totalled 19 million, continued their education through the EBA. It was said that the EBA was only capable of 1 million. Our educational system, which added failure to its failures, also failed online education, and the EBA system collapsed from day one. For the online educational system, teachers looked for different ways. We have teachers who continue to study online, who try to teach. But unfortunately, they weren't given free Internet, they weren't given computers, they weren't given tablets, and now dozens of students can't get their education because they don't have computers. Dear friends, unemployment has reached 20 per cent in 2020, and unfortunately, the majority of these unemployed are young unemployed. The youth unemployment rate has been rising regularly over the past seven years, and thanks to you, it's set a record for the record. The majority of college graduates struggle with unemployment and poverty. We built a university in every city. The government boasted that it could not provide academic, scientific education at these universities, nor did it open jobs for young people who graduated from these universities. Look, friends, the number of young people who graduated from universities from 2005 to 2019: In this picture, we see very clearly the policy of power towards young people. The number of university graduates was 105,792 people in 2005, while in 2019 the number grew to 1,340,000. So in 2005, one and a half out of every thousand people is unemployed, while in the total population today, 16.3 are unemployed. So a 1.100 percent increase is an increase of 1.100 per cent.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0328par0102	We're producing unemployment.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0327par0103	Of course, there's a need to address the unassigned teachers. We can't avoid referring to Kurdish teachers when we're referring to unregistered teachers. In June 2020, 19,910 teachers were appointed, but only one quota was given to Kurdish. Only one quota was granted to Kurdish, which clearly revealed the political power's approach to Kurdish and Kurdish. Kurdish teachers' appointments dropped 98.31 per cent from 2012 to today, while power's Kurdish hostility increased 900 per cent. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Yes, friends, young people are unemployed, but young people are also in debt. Because young people who have finished college and just started living have student loans to pay. The number of young people receiving KYK student loans has reached 5 million. Legal action has been initiated because about 300,000 young people who receive student loans to complete their education are unable to deposit their repayment loan. The government is not opening jobs for these young people, but also asking them to return the scholarship they had to receive to continue their lives, their education, with interest. He's starting legal action on those who can't pay their debts, and he's doing e-accession. And you know what this power does? He's cutting scholarships for young people he doesn't like to think about. Just a few months ago, young women dancing at Ankara University were detained by torture and their scholarships were cut off. This is your effort to discipline young people with poverty and hunger. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Dear friends, yes, young people are unemployed; yes, young women struggle with debts, but young women also live daily with threats of harassment, rape, and death. (Applause from HDP) Gülistan Doku, 21, a student at Munzur University, has been lost and has not been found for three hundred and forty-five days. Merve Aslan, 24 years old; was brutally murdered in Diyarbakır by his next of kin. Ece Flower, only 18 years old, was brutally murdered by a man close to her. Silk Er, 18, raped by Specialist Sergeant Musa Orhan in Batman, led to suicide, was released by the power of Musa Orhan.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0329par0110	Son of a bitch!
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0327par0111	In the first ten months of the year 2020 alone, 436 women were slaughtered. The lives of the thousands of women you've watched and insisted on have ended in the violence of men due to separatist and misogynistic policies.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0330par0112	Don't you see the women who have been taken to the mountains, taken to the mountains, raped, murdered? You never talk about these women.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0331par0113	Listen, listen.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0327par0114	In 2002, 66 women were murdered, while 474 women were murdered in 2019. So women's murders have increased by 720 percent. And you're talking about women's colleges, we're going to start a university for women. Weren't you the one who released the abusers, rapists, and women killers with the Execution Act?
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0332par0117	You're lying, you're lying!
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0327par0118	Instead of setting up a women's university to isolate women from social life and the academy, set up every aspect of life as a habitable area for young women. (EKN/TK) Judge women murderers, perpetrators, and give the Musa Orhans what they deserve.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0333par0119	We give, we give. We're giving everyone what they deserve.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0327par0120	And dear friends, you know what's most important? Young people who run politics against this government are being taken into unlawful custody and arrested. And I'll tell you what's even scarier, he's being kidnapped and subjected to espionage.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0334par0122	Well, you might as well shut up about a young congressman. It's a shame. There's a young congressman, just listen. It's a shame, really. We listened to your young man talk.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0327par0123	Our members of the Youth Council, our members of the NGO, our members of the PM have been illegally kidnapped over and over again. Our youth council member, Leader Polet -- footage of the abduction -- was detained in the middle of Istanbul on August 27th by people who identified themselves as law enforcement forces, and was tortured for hours. Do you know what the result was? Leader Polet was released in the middle of nowhere, after he was released, he appealed to the IHD, filed a criminal complaint, even though he had a vehicle license plate, no files were filed against a single person, no trial against a single person, and beyond that, he applied to the IHD because he had already been kidnapped, and had filed a case against our friends who had filed a criminal complaint against them for causing hatred and hatred. So we're not suing the kidnappers, we're suing the young people facing this incident, we're suing our PM members. We ask here: The HDP Youth Assembly -- our friends who have been kidnapped because they're being asked -- is said to be an illegal youth organization. The police are being offered information flow on the activities of the Youth Council, and even more tragicly, if they do not submit to these threats, they are threatened with fabricating files and not getting out of prison for the rest of their lives. We say from here that even if we are threatened and kidnapped a thousand times, even if you try to shut down democratic political channels, we will continue this honorable struggle. [[Applause from HDP rows]] From here, we would like to ask the authorities: Who does it bother, and why does it bother young people to have politics against power? WHO are those who, in their own way, detain our friends, try to illegalize the Youth Assembly of the 3rd largest political party of the Assembly, and where do they get that power?
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0335par0126	They're taking the young to the mountain, to the mountain. You're taking young people up the mountain.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0336par0128	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0327par0129	Even though there's audio recordings, license plates, video footage of the abductions, why doesn't the judge do what he's supposed to do? Even though we've asked the government over and over again, why doesn't the government make a single statement about this? In another country, these events would have resigned from the shame of power.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0335par0131	You can't defend young people!
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0327par0132	But you're trying to clear things up by keeping quiet. Don't bother, we'll never let that happen. (Applause from Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) Let's say this once again: it's not our teenage activities that are illegal, it's the illegal ones who kidnap young people and the dark forces behind them.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0335par0134	You're kidnapping the young.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0337par0135	Listen to our mothers of Diyarbakir, our mothers of Diyarbakir.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0327par0136	Guys, you're bragging about what you're doing here, but let me tell you a little bit about the truth. Because of your politics, young people don't want to live. Young people commit suicide because of your future policy.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0338par0138	The youth share... Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0327par0141	In the last period, seven young people committed suicide in Silvan district of Diyarbakır province alone. Seven young people who committed suicide in Silvan (Salvan) have made it clear that the situation in Turkey is a reality. No one has the right to condemn young people to such darkness and despair. The promised future for young people leads this country into darkness. According to studies, one of the two young people is unhappy and 76.2% of the young people in this country want to leave the country and do not want to live in Turkey. Most of the young people living in Turkey are desperate and do not have a single dream of their future. Now, while this is our reality, you're still bragging about what you've done, making national literature. Turn around and see why the young are unhappy, why they want to leave this country, and give us an answer. Once again, I would like to address all my young friends here who are not allowed to perform politics, who can't get a job, who can't... [[Applause from HDP rows]] [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm ending it, Mr. President. Young people who live every day in fear of harassment, rape, slaughter, who can't see their future, don't give up hope. Don't give up hope for those who want to leave us without a future. We have so much more to throw, so much to say.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0339par0148	You can only do that, but you can only do that. No politics with Disney!
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0327par0149	And all young men, believe me, we have the power to build a bright future that will destroy dictators from their palaces.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0340par0151	Thank you, Mr. Mountain.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0327par0152	We are the hope, the hope of the people and of the bright future. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0340par0155	Şırnak MP Mr. Hüseyin won't run... Here you go, Mr.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0341par0158	Mr. President, dear MPs, of course, I want to say to the AKP MPs, that my Deputy has given you a really good speech, and he has told you the truth in all fairness. And you're right, dear friends, and you're right, you're not yet used to the other one who said what he said, but don't worry, you'll get used to it, you'll get used to it, no doubt. Dear friends, today is the anniversary of the curfews declared on December 14, 2015 in the districts of Şırnak's Cizre, Silopi and Idil, in which there was a period of apocalypse. Therefore, first of all, I honor and cherish all our citizens who have lost their lives in the prohibitions. And once again, I salute all our comrades in prison who are being held as political hostages. When we look at the budget, we see that the Minister of Youth and Sports can't actually defend the budget of young people because this year the budget has again been transferred to palaces, supporters, interest, but the budget of the Ministry of Youth and Sports has not increased even as much as inflation. Millions of young people in debt to the KYK have become insurgents. Today, Turkey is suffering from unemployment. The most important problem for young people is unemployment. A quarter of the population is young, 27 per cent of the young are unemployed, so one out of three young people are unemployed. Unemployment, uncertainty, and uncertainty drive young people to pessimism. Unemployment, poverty, pressure and lack of future increase drug addiction, and again, suicides are increasing due to unemployment and poverty. Because of unemployment, friends, young people are now sleeping during the day. You know, don't get me wrong, it's not lazy, because after years of studying and graduating from college, these young people who can't get a job sleep during the day especially because they can't look their father in the face, and it's actually the AKP's policies.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0342par0162	For not sleeping at night.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0341par0163	And again, there are, of course, many reasons for drug use, including issues such as conflict, migration, unemployment, lack of education, and sociopolitical pressures. Young people's political actions are under pressure. All of these issues increase substance abuse tremendously. Again, from my hometown of Şırnak, let me give you an example: In a study by an institution, only in our Uludere district, only in one village, there are 30 substance addicts, this is just a village. Varın, you think of the district of Uludere and the districts with large populations such as Cizre, Silopi. Actually...
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0343par0165	Who makes the stuff, who brings it?
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0341par0166	I'll tell you in a moment... the officer of the police station was caught in a shipment of drugs along with three other soldiers. Is that what you're saying? Is that what you're saying? Here. You want it, open it, watch it, watch it. In Şırnak, especially in 2015, the conflicts and demolitions brought young people down spiritually. Dear MPs, Mr. Secretary; yes, many of our friends, many of our brothers, many of our fellow citizens have lost the streets, the neighborhoods where they were born, grew up, and all their memories, destroyed, destroyed, during the conflicting period in 2015 and caused a mental breakdown. Sadly, many youths who have lost family members, who have lost friends, have unfortunately sought the cure in drugs. The families are asking for help. There are thousands of young people in Şırnak who are trying to get rid of this drug sink, substance abuse, but the nearest place of cleansing and rehabilitation is in Antwerp and Elaziğı; Diyarbakır is dysfunctional and doesn't cover anything. So first of all, I'd like to ask Şırnak to open a place of cleansing and rehabilitation here once again. And there were double victims of the pandemic we were talking about in the Commission study. Who are they? Regional and local amateur clubs, sports clubs. An amateur league athletes, technical teams, and club staff again have suffered major losses. We've already asked the Plan and Budget Commission to increase the budget of $120 million to these clubs, amateur clubs, because we know and we care very much: amateur clubs, these sports clubs protect young people from bad habits, drugs, and so on. This motion, however, was rejected by the AKP with mp votes. These clubs have been trying to get their voices out for a long time, trying to get their voices out on social media. As I was saying, athletes, technical team and club employees, together with their families, they have hundreds of thousands, and there's a huge loss. They must be helped immediately, given rights from the budget, or we have a danger that these clubs, which protect from bad habits, are now at the point of closure, and at the same time, we're losing a generation of sports. There was something else that interests me in the Minister's budget speech, which, of course, our friends had objected in the previous years. In fact, Mr. Secretary continues to use this language even though we constantly object. While we insisted that pluralism should be stressed, Mr. Minister spoke of the Institute of Religious Sciences and the Language Education Workshops. Let me tell you a little bit about language training workshops. Here they teach Ottoman and Persian; right, good, good, give. At the same time, there are English, German, Russian, Chinese, even Korean Language Workshops; very nice, congratulations. But dear friends, you've forgotten one thing, you've forgotten the language of your thousand-year-old Kurdish brother, a Kurdish workshop, a workshop. Then you talk to us about a thousand years of Kurdish brotherhood. Again, of course, we should have workshops not only in Kurdish, but in Lazca and Circeçe, and in Armenian. We also strongly welcome the fact that gambling is being conducted by public hand by the Sports Toto General Directorate. There's no law against gambling, against the law, my friends. Is there anything illegal or illegal about drinking, or is gambling illegal, illegal? This is unacceptable, too. There is another point in youth and youth where this society is driven by power: racism and discrimination. In particular, we face the form of racism in sports competitions, unfortunately, all the time. In the recent match between Paris Saint-Germain and Basakşehir, due to racist statements from the referee, all political groups, almost all citizens, reacted. Yes, that's the way it should be, the Turkish Football Federation reacted, but let me remind you of a few examples in Turkey: Haim Revivo, Hitler, we understand you better because Haim Revivo was Israeli, Jewish. Or there were racist slogans in Pini Balili again saying, "Fuck Israel!" Hrant Dink... when Samast committed the murder that day, he had a white beret on his head, a bunch of fans of a team, and he had claimed the murder, he supported it. Dear friends, again, Emre Belezoglu gave racist statements to a black football player, but unfortunately, he was also rewarded as captain of the national team. Amedspor was forced to play without an audience for almost five years. In many of his games, we are against lynching and racist rhetoric against his football players today. No one has ever said a word about the persecution suffered by Diyarbakırspor, Amedspor. We're past national racism, discrimination! Yeah, dudes, Dalkurd's in the Swedish League, the Swedish League! You even interfered there. The Chinese Huawei company is sponsoring the Dalkurd team, but the Turkish authorities are threatening Huawei. If you do not cancel this sponsorship, we will stop your operations in Turkey. The Huawei company says, "Keep your money, but don't use our sponsorship." And again, the same team says, Dalkurd, "Don't use our sponsorship." The title Dalkurd is deleted while the match is being played on the combook site -- Sports Toto is connected to the head of the Agency -- while the competition continues. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0344par0177	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0341par0178	Again, the Kurdish name will be destroyed, so that's exactly how it's written. So it's discrimination again, racism again, and here it is. Like I said, you even interfered with the Chinese company now. Oh, if it's a lie, if it's a lie, come out and explain it, or, friends, maybe the Chinese are trying to tear us apart with our thousand-year-old brothers. Indeed, I'm curious, if there is anything, Mr. Secretary, to explain. Look, this is footage from the attack on Amedspor's Ankara power match; it's the executive staff. Videos are all over the Internet. Look, Amedspor is like an armed force, when Amedspor goes to the game, the pictures of the soldiers who died in combat, the operations, the police, the helicopter operations demonstrations are shown in the stadiums. Here, let the children not die. Because Amedspor has opened the banner, he is subjected to discrimination, racism.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0345par0180	He's the one you're talking about.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0341par0181	This hypocrisy must also be stopped. We don't support this budget that doesn't defend young people. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0346par0184	Diyarbakır MP Hişyar Özsoy... Here you go, Mr. Ozoy.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0347par0187	It's the Sakaryaspor! I'll send you the news.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0348par0188	Were you there?
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0347par0189	Yeah, I was there.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0348par0190	We were there when he was hit.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0349par0191	Here you go, Mr. Ozsoy.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0350par0192	Dear friends, if you'll excuse me, I'd like to say a few words. Mr. Secretary, welcome. Dear President, my fellow lawmakers, I'm going to talk about foreign policy and share a few ideas about the State Department budget. Of course, before we get to that, Mr. Nazmi Gür, a member of the HDP Foreign Relations Commission who was recently arrested -- our brother Nazmi -- has been a member of parliament at this time -- and again, our member of MYK Altınörs -- Alp Altınörs and Günay Kublai Hodja -- are sharing the same cell as our party spokesman, MYK member. Recently, they were arrested with a ridiculous, 90-wheel-turning operation. I give them our greetings and love from here on behalf of our group. Mr. Minister, you know Nazmi Beyi, Nazmi Gür. Let me send you your greetings and affections in the cell right now. I'll send it because you worked with him. (HDP) So those who know him know Nazmi Gür has been a member of parliament here for a long time and so on. Really, we're in a state of awe right now, just to see what comes out. Now, my dear friends, in the Plan and Budget Commission, and here, I'm trying to listen to this year's budget talks as carefully as possible, and I want to share an observation, and I sincerely say: now, when there are no rational arguments left in the saddlebags, there is no rational debate, there is no rational, epic talk. I've looked at it, especially today, and I swear to you that some of my friends, Mehmet Tiryaki, wrote on our list, and today is April 23rd, full of joy. With enthusiasm and closed eyes like this, the eyes are closed, too, a nation's literature is unbelievable! In the 1970s, in the 1980s Cüneyt Arkın is filming, Malkoçoglu, Kara Murat! This is a state of mind, and believe me, it's not a very healthy state of mind; it's a very pathological state of mind, really, very sincerely. Look, we're going to talk about the foreign policy budget, we need to go with some rational arguments. Now, I'm really not talking to the bleachers today. Because they come in here, they close their eyes, they read poetry, and they talk to the other camera, the myth, the myth. I'm going to try to talk to my friends here, as I've always done, because I still insist that the House should have a consultation, and I really think that otherwise, we leave, so there's no point in staying here. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Dear friends, there is a serious transformation in domestic and foreign policy in Turkey, a serious transformation; take this seriously. This transformation is this: politics, economics, culture, art, sports, healthcare, academy, press, law, diplomacy, a lot of areas, but in Turkey, we think that all of these areas are being militarized very quickly. Because Turkey has an internal, external, economic, legal, ethnic, religious, religious, class, social, sexual, world-long issue, but almost all of these issues have been reduced to a matter of peace and security. In this case, the only way to stay at the table is to be on the field in a military sense; it's the only way to be on the field, but it's not. So societies have power in many ways. For example, Turkey -- nobody thinks it's too much but -- is a demographically serious force. Yeah, we're talking 85 million people, we're talking 85 million markets, we're talking about young labor. Education institutions can be very important, can't they? Finance is an important area, the economy is an important area, democracy and human rights area. So when a society can be on the field in very different shapes, we're constantly not at the table unless someone has tricked us again. They talk like that. Shall I tell you where this is coming from? Why is this power being the buyer for this? Now, my dear friends, the other areas that I've just mentioned, the economy, finance, law, democracy, democracy, democracy, ideology, culture, all of this because there's not much left to offer to Turkey or to the Middle East or to the world. Look, what is Turkey exporting to the Middle East and to the world? If he can't find military supplies, then the militia from Syria will be exported from Syria. They've sent militias to Libya. Everyone knows, the world knows. In the Middle East, however, I recommend that those who say that we are conducting an anti-emperal struggle -- which has just been mentioned -- read the James Jeffrey article -- which recently appeared in Al-Monitor. You know what he says? It says: "We need Turkey very much because (...) "x" (...) This (...) might have a few meanings. We can't do without Turkey in the Caucasus, the Black Sea and the Middle East, and we, thanks to Turkey, will not end the Syrian war and give Iran and Russia a victory. We're not just using Turkey's military power to put an end to the Syrian war. That's what James Jeffrey said. Mr. Secretary knows him, and he has a close dialogue. Now, look, we've said it over and over here on this stand. Turkey does not have such a humanitarian and entrepreneurial foreign policy; it is an interventionist, a policy that has a sub-esperial, regionally imperial ambition, trying to get into all the spaces as often as possible. And while I'm doing that, I assure you, I've been listening for days, we've heard it in the budget, it's not that loud. Turkey still wants to position Turkey to fill that gap as NATO country and America slowly begin to withdraw from the region. They say that openly, that is not my argument. They say: either there will be Russia in Libya, Syria, or there will be Iran and Russia in Syria, after all, Turkey is a NATO power, at least Turkey. That's what they say.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0351par0202	It's not that simple.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0350par0203	Now, in the international parliaments that we've entered, the Turkish side has already expressed this argument, so is it Russia? Now look -- time is going by so fast -- let me finish, there's a lot of stuff, I can't get in. Now, dear friends, relations with America are on the rocks; Trump is gone, Biden is coming, Biden is coming, we don't know what kind of sanctions are coming. They postponed sanctions in the European Union until March, but there will be sanctions in the European Union if there are no serious concessions in Turkey. Friends in the Council of Europe know that for the first time, Turkey's dissolution from the Council began. For what it's worth, Turkey has been trying to find a NATO force within the Western Bloc for seventy-eight years, it's had a history of seventy-eight years since the 1950s -- but at the point we've come to, the United States, the European Union and the Council of Europe, if it's reached the point of sanctioning every three-period...
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0352par0205	You wish! Too bad, too bad! You boast of the sanctions of Europe, and you expect it, shame!
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0353par0206	I mean, it's not right to want the evil of Turkey!
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0354par0207	Complete your words, Mr. Ozoy.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0352par0208	He's waiting for European sanctions!
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0355par0209	Mr. President, I'm not going to... I can't talk, I have a headache! I can't talk like this! [[Applause from HDP rows]] Now, to say...
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0352par0213	You wish!
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0355par0214	Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait. You can come talk to him. We come and talk here once a month anyway. Are you guys that insufferable?
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0356par0215	You punch tables when the ministers are talking.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0352par0216	What a shame! What European sanctions?
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0355par0217	Okay, you're not... I'm saying something else. I'm telling you...
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0352par0218	You're supporting it then...
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0355par0219	There is no god but Allah! You guys are so disrespectful! I'm trying to talk, you're interrupting, can you stop? Yeah, you guys are really interesting. You guys are really interesting.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0357par0220	Mr. President, would you please step in?
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0358par0221	Mr. Ozsoy, you address the General Assembly. Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0359par0223	Mr. Hishyar, go ahead.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0360par0224	Mayor, I can't. I really take people seriously. I can't talk about it because I'm taking it seriously. Look, Congressman, if I talk to that camera, I'll talk to you, but I'm falling apart because I'm talking to you. So I'm supposed to count you guys for nothing here, cover my ears, not doing this.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0358par0226	Of course we'll take each other seriously, Mr. Ozoy, it's not wrong. You go ahead, Mr. Ozoy.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0361par0228	Okay...
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0362par0229	Mr. Hishyar, go ahead. We don't hit tables.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0363par0230	Yes, he does not ask you whether he will continue, but he says, "Listen!
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0364par0231	Dear friends... well, anyway... Dear friends, let me try to complete this: Turkey has used foreign policy as a domestic policy material, it's been stomped on, it's reached its limits, it's over. At this point, Turkey has very serious problems as a country, not issues that can be used as domestic policy materials, such as hammock materials. So we say, look, these are serious matters. In fact, we're telling you that, finally, these reform debates have been made, on one hand, a security environment is being created so that Turkey can get rid of sanctions, and on the other hand, attract investments.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0365par0234	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0364par0235	Mr. President, I'm finishing. I'm sorry. Dear friends, these reform debates are actually a temporary solution to the problems of an end in foreign policy, the problems of exhaustion in the country, but this is the way to think about reform. There, Mr. Cemil Cicek -- I disagree with a lot of his ideas -- made a statement about the matter -- that we need not reform, but a Tevbeinasuh. He said, "We need a sincere repentance," he said. And what he means by that is that we agree with him to the end: Look, I don't think there's any need for immediate, immediate reform in Turkey right now. It may come as a bit of a shock to you, that before you reform, before you make a new law, you apply the existing laws properly, see, there will be some immediate differences. For example, one example, I'm going to close: The other day, Süleyman Soylu came here, this matter of Hakkari... what I'm not going to enter, my Group Vice Presidents are looking at, and I'm going to make another point. After two people were thrown out of the helicopter and taken into custody in front of everyone, their bodies were handed over; one was seriously ill, one was given to their families in body form. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm just finishing up, Mr. President. You've added a minute. Is it possible for them to enter in a minute? The other day, here, the Deputy Minister of Parliament has given the Home Secretary 12 minutes, so give us a minute.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0366par0239	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0364par0240	Dear friends, do you know what happened? The Home Secretary came here, and he said: "Yes, we have him in custody, but... "Mealen said: "They aided and abetted, so we killed them. " He said this here and received applause.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0367par0242	The process of judgment is in progress. He said. An investigation has been launched, a judicial process is under way.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0364par0243	Look, what does the Constitution of the Republic of Turkey say, folks? He says that no matter what the crime, no matter what the accusation, no matter what, we don't need to build a reform, a Human Rights Action Plan in the Republic of Turkey to make sure that the security forces don't torture the people in the state of Turkey, that there's no political will just to enforce the existing laws, but there's no way that if we came in here like Sulayman Noble and insulted everyone else, there would be no way that if we gave the State Department of Foreign Affairs $3 billion, not just 300 billion dollars, there'd be no way to raise the image of Turkey outside. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0368par0246	Mr. Feleknas Uca, Batman MP... Here you go, Mr. Uca.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0369par0249	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my party on the European Union President's budget for 2021 Central Management Budget Law Proposal. From here, I salute all political hostages, including our citizens, our party co-chairs, our MPs, our co-chairs, our co-chairs, our mayors, MYK, PM and our party members, who are watching us on screens. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Dear friends, this year we are struggling in an economic collapse no different than any other year, but closer to the bottom. However, the budget offered by the government, of course, is far from being a budget that raises the level of prosperity and measures against this collapse; it has not gone beyond an offer that opens up a war zone. As it is known, the Ministry of the European Union has been shut down and linked to the State Department under the presidential decree. The European Union's commitments to membership, which the AKP has used as propaganda material throughout its rule, have stopped because the European Union has failed to respond to the demands for democratic change. For the past five years, the AKP's government has been on the opposite course, completely devoid of the principles of democracy. The European Union Commission's 2020 report clearly shows how the AKP (AKP) distanced itself from the European Union. The report did not seriously address Turkey's serious concerns about the European Union's rule of law, fundamental rights and negative developments in the field of the judiciary. Turkey is further away from the European Union every day. In a speech in 2002, then Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan said the Copenhagen Criters would have Ankara criteria. He promised that these criteria, which are important for membership in the European Union, would be implemented in Turkey. According to Copenhagen Criters, countries running for membership in the European Union need to meet the conditions for democracy, rule of law, respect for human rights, minority protection. However, by appointing trustees to the will of the people, by making the judiciary a power of political decisions; by arresting the elected, academics, journalists; by enforcing freedom of expression, how it went beyond 2002; by showing us clearly how it applied the Ankara criteria against Copenhagen Criters. You know how to criticize European countries in many ways, but when you come to your senses, you have no right to law. You criticize the violence of the police in France, but this place, especially after 2016, has become a state of police. You said there were zero tolerances to torture, but people were subjected to attacks by law enforcement forces in Kurdish provinces, especially in Diyarbakır, without saying young and old; gas was sprayed on 70-year-old mothers in front of prisons, and they were dragged into the ground. Look at these photos, are you going to get zero tolerance here? Mr. Secretary, please. [[Applause from HDP rows]] In Germany, Turks are assimilated, Turkish language is being tried to destroy. There's pressure. You said there's pressure. So, what are you doing to Kurds here? You ban Kurdish theatres, you download Kurdish signs from municipalities, you close the websites. Not only did you ignore Kurdish and insufferability show itself inside, but outside, you even interfered with Kurdish languages that were opened in Japan, France, and you tried to shut it down. Mr. President, we see ourselves in Europe, not elsewhere, and we imagine our future together with Europe. For years, the government, which has created politics in the opposite direction of the Copenhagen Criterion, thinks it can come out of its tight spot with the promise of Europe. I'd like to ask you: What applications do you intend to build your future on in Europe? With your coup against democracy by desecrating the people's will and appointing a trustee? On the basis that you arrest the chosen ones, that you politicize the judiciary?
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0370par0260	Aiding terror, aiding and abetting, anyone gets arrested.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0369par0261	Your policies where you undermine human rights, disregard the decisions of the ECHR? With your policies in freedom of expression and press that put Turkey in the last places in the world? Instead of policies to establish peace in the Middle East, is it the violence and war that you continue to co-operate with the selefied organisations?
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0371par0262	We're fighting terrorists!
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0369par0263	Dear friends, Mr. President Erdogan, in 2005, in the historic vote in the European Parliament for full membership talks in the European Union, referring to the "yes" votes, would there have been 10 'yes' votes in favour of Turkey so far in the European Parliament? Now, in favour of Turkey, there are over 400 'yes' votes there." Fifteen years later, Europe reached the point of decision to sanction Turkey. The violence you create, the unlawfulness, human rights violations, the theft of wills, the bill of your misogynistic policies is being paid to the people of Turkey. These setbacks in itself make the functionality of the European Union's presidency controversial. It is widely known and seen that relations with the European Union have reached the point of freezing, that there is no concrete initiative for the fulfillment of the agreements reached. Therefore, we are concerned that the budget for the presidency of the European Union will also be spent on unresolved work. We therefore propose that the European Union's presidency be shut down or that relations with the European Union proceed in the interest of democracy by being brought back to the ministry. Precious lawmakers have deepened polarisation and unresolved solutions, especially in the last ten years of AKP power, both inside and outside Turkey's borders. From the early years when AKP came to power, we observe that the foreign policy commitment, which was approved by the neighbours with zero problems and claims of membership in the European Union, has now been transformed into Neosmanist, interventionist, and destructive approaches. Right now, we don't have a single neighbor that we haven't had a crisis, especially in Syria. You practice enemy law in foreign policy, especially in Kurds. Instead of negotiating, diplomacy and democratic solution policies, Kurds, particularly, the region's peoples are being co-operated with various parliamentary organisations. This increases tension in the region, expanding the environment of violence. After the Afrin occupation, systematic attacks on Kurdish culture, its economy were launched in the region, trying to change the demographic structure.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0372par0267	Afrin wasn't invaded...
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0373par0268	Ya, there was no attack on the Kurds, there was an attack on the terrorists.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0374par0269	There's no invasion in Afrin.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0375par0270	Listen to the messenger, orator!
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0376par0271	Tombs and temples of different beliefs were destroyed. The fate of hundreds of women who were abducted by the predecessors in your control is still unclear.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0374par0272	That's a lot of slander, a lot of slander!
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0376par0273	Dear friends, next Friday is one of the fundamental religious and social values of the people of Ezidi. I'm celebrating Eid Day from here.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0377par0275	Remember, the oppressed came to Turkey.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0378par0276	We protected them in Syria, Iraq.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0376par0277	I hereby declare that on 3 August 2014 hundreds of thousands of Ezidi were taken from their land, 7,000 women were kidnapped by these DAİH barbarians.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0379par0278	Turkey has taken over, Turkey.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0376par0279	They burned women alive who didn't change their religion. The fate of 2,800 women remains unclear. Their father's head was cut off in front of their children.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0380par0280	We're protecting the Crushers.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0376par0281	Because of this decree, there are still new mass graves in the Shengal.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0380par0282	These are lies, false words; you deceive the people, you deceive the people.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0376par0283	This crime of humanity was also explained by a report by the United Nations, and there are examples of these crimes that have spread to Turkey.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0380par0284	You're complaining about your country.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0376par0285	For example, an Ezidi woman, who was taken prisoner by DAİŞ gang members in Şengal, was held as a slave in the house of ISIS in Ankara for four years.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0380par0287	This is a lie, and you are iniquitous.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0381par0288	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0376par0289	His family had to buy the young woman from the Turkish capital. I'm asking you: What is the EPA's order doing in Turkey's capital? How can the barbarians who took this woman cross the borders of your control so easily? A second example is in Gaziantep. In the online slave market, girls and women were sold by ISIS gangs. We even read about it in the European press.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0382par0291	We'll catch them and put them in jail, don't worry.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0376par0292	It wasn't enough, but Turkey bombed the Shengal six times after the massacre. Rojava and Shengal are still under threat. I want to ask you, what do you want from the people of Ezidi? What did the oppressed do to you?
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0382par0295	It's a provocateur!
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0383par0296	Leave what the oppressed are going through there, see what the Kurds are going through. For years, we have embraced the oppressed and the Kurds.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0376par0297	Neither the 74 decrees, nor the Erbil-Bedat Agreement, can finish the persecutions, nor can it empty the Shengal, nor can it prevent the new life there. (PHP 3, PHP 4)
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0384par0300	It's all unrealistic, false propaganda, you're fooling the Kurdish people.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0385par0301	The last speaker is Adana MP Tulay Hatimoğlu Orç... Here you go, Mr. Fast.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0384par0304	You're fooling Kurdish people, you're spreading false propaganda. We're the ones protecting the Yezidi, the Turkish state here.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0386par0305	You burned 14 villages in Afrin.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0384par0306	You're always behind the PKK.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0387par0308	Here you go, Mr. Fast. Congressmans... the MPs are on the stand.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0388par0310	Mr. President, I'd like to begin by remembering the civilians who died in the Boko Haram attack in Nigeria. I condemn this massacre, I share the pain of the Nigerian people. ( [[Applause from HDP rows]] Dear people, we're trying to talk about budgets; the deficits in the budget, the poverty, the poverty in the country; they're still shouting from here, from now on, about the lack of youth; because they've sunk the country, they've sold the parcels; their only argument is terrorism; but we will continue to tell the facts of the economic crisis, hunger and poverty in this bench; the chains of the people of Turkey that you've put on this platform, the outside policy that you've implemented.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0389par0314	That's your opinion...
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0388par0315	Yes, don't take it from the past. They call it the past. I'm not going to start with the Neolithic Age, I'm just going to talk about what happened in the Middle East and North Africa in the last decade. See, when the war began in Syria in March 2011, Turkey took a role right there; the role that it had to take was to be a neighbouring country that would call for peace and dialogue in Syria, rather than support them in Syria, with organizations that the imperialist forces had uncovered from ISIS and Muslim Brothers had collected from al-Qaeda. This mission, of course, would fall to Turkey because we have a 911 mile limit with Syria. What did the AKP do, the Cumhur Alliance? And they turned their friend Assad to Esed. And there they were, truly, they called them precious loneliness, and they went to your trouble, and the start of precious solitude was given.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0389par0316	We're standing tall, with our heads held high.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0388par0317	Look, the public is getting a terror corridor. You've propagandad it. I'm very curious here... that Syria is a country accepted by the United Nations and Syria says I don't want you on my land. If there's a problem here, I'll solve it. But if you don't, we'll come to your land. The war here is with the Syrian state? The war here is with the Kurdish people?
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0390par0318	WITH THE DAESH...
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0388par0319	Is this war, as you call it, terror? You can't answer that; look, you can't answer.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0390par0320	WE'RE FIGHTING WITH DAESH.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0391par0321	We don't have a problem with Kurdish people.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0388par0322	Look, the point we've come to is that you'll remember, a jihadist gang member from East Guta, who came to Idlib, who said, "If you leave us alone in Idlib, you'll set up an observation point tomorrow, but I think it's over 100 -- and they'll force you to leave all the observation points in the vicinity of M4, just like you left them one by one by one; but now you're leaving them. If you leave us, we'll be in Reyhan in two hours. Look, today your Syrian policy is a gift to Turkey, border-wide jihadist gangs; border-wide Al Qaeda, Al Nusra extensions; border-wide ISIS gangs.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0391par0325	What's that got to do with anything?
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0392par0326	PKK, PKK...
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0388par0327	Not only at the border, but in the heart of Ankara, in the heart of Istanbul, in the belly of Antioch, you have given a bomb to this community, a bomb.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0393par0328	They've all gone back to cell construction, we've neutralized them, they've gone back to cell construction. Right now there's no such thing as DAES, they're back to cell building.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0394par0329	Don't talk!
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0388par0330	See, now, there are Geneva talks in Syria, the constitutional writing process has begun. More important and striking, the International Refugee Conference in Damascus was held. 27 countries, including Russia and China, were involved. They talk about the return of refugees to Syria, how do we build infrastructure? But Turkey is not at this table again, not again, not again.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0395par0331	Turkey is everywhere, don't worry!
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0388par0332	There are 4 million Syrians in Turkey, Turkey, which should have been at that table in the first place. You are not present at the meeting in which 4 million refugees in Turkey -- which has not even refugee status -- have opened the way for the return to Syria, their homeland, their land in the most healthy way -- were you not invited, would you have been invited, would you have left, and I really don't know that. Look, why don't you want to solve the refugee problem? Because you don't respect the first of the two countries' rights to neighbour. Second: You want to form a corridor on the border between Turkey and Syria, where Kurdish people live, you want to create a buffer zone, you want to create a satellite and eliminate the Kurdish neighborhood limits.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0396par0334	Yeah, we're just gonna leave it to the PKK?
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0388par0335	You're using refugees as blackmail against the European Union. You've mediated the refugees. Don't look so refugee-loving.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0397par0336	They'll be killed!
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0388par0337	We've asked a lot of these questions, and we're going to ask you again: look, S-400 missiles and the F-35 program; Turkey has spent billions of dollars on this program and this air defense system. It's in the S-400 hangar, removed from the F-35 program, Turkey. In a place where this country is in such an economic crisis, send warriors to Libya where you can finance them, the workers, farmers, peasants, citizens, citizens, hungry, hungry; you don't realize it.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0397par0338	The subcontractors...
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0398par0339	Turkey's indivisible integrity is more important than anything else.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0388par0340	And since you don't realize it, you make your own ends meet.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0397par0342	What are you talking about?
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0388par0343	See now, the new trend: you boiled the waters in the eastern Mediterranean, and you foamed; and you received nothing. Now, for example, you've withdrawn the Oruç Reis ship, such as the blue homeland strategy, we don't know what his theory is. One of the fathers of this theory, Jihad Sagittarius, has quietly resigned, not even a proper agenda in the country, but the mistake made here in strategic depth was also made in the blue homeland theory, which continues to happen. You're not the only ones paying for this, you're making us all pay. Look, the government has solved Syria, Libya, Iraq, and now it's time for the Caucasus. President Azerbaijan goes, reads a poem, it's a mess. Mr. Secretary of State has been assigned to you, and it is your duty to clean up after the President, see, dialogue with Iran has fallen to you.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0399par0347	No one's hiding it; it's a state spirit, state politics... talking without knowing what it is.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0388par0348	Here the Foreign Minister of Iran says: "Is there a president who does not know the meaning of the phrase "The Storm River" that is being read? The Foreign Minister immediately comes in and tries to solve it in diplomatic ways. No matter what you do, it's up to you to put together the new process that one man's regime has distributed in foreign politics and is now trying to build with Iran -- which I believe is not read by so many coincidences -- I don't know, we'll see, the process will show us this, of course -- it's up to you to collect it, but it can't recover.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0400par0349	What is it you're not comfortable with? Tell me why you're uncomfortable, why do you bother?
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0388par0350	Look here, our valued citizens, Turkey and this government's only-man regime have come to this day, surfing on pendulum politics in the United States, the EU, Russia and Iran. You said, "We're setting up a game. You're certainly a victim of the game you've set up, and you've actually played games with the fate of the people, with the fate of the country, and you haven't been able to play any games.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0401par0351	We've ruined every game.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0402par0352	We don't mess around, we don't play games.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0388par0353	You say it, I don't. Here we all need this: we are not a country to export war and death, we will be a country like this. Over the border, to Afrin, to Idlib, to Ayn Jesus, to Syria, to Libya, to Shengal, to Iraq, to Yemen, to Azerbaijan, not to the warrior, to the solution politics, to the solution politics. The problems of the Kurdish people in Turkey and Syria...
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0402par0355	Like in Kandil?
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0388par0356	...peaceful, democratic, we will continue our work to find a way to secure it in the Constitution.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0403par0357	Tell PKK, tell America.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0404par0358	What's the astana process? The Astana process is the peace process.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0388par0359	The political, economic, social, democratic and ecological demands of the region's people have been available for centuries. Look, in the game you're building, you're not the only ones who won't lose, the country loses, the region loses, the people lose.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0403par0361	Ask America what are you doing in Syria? Ask them what are you doing 10,000 kilometers away?
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0405par0362	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0388par0363	As a partner in the influx of imperialism, an understanding that deserves any kind of intervention, including military intervention, can never, ever move this country any further, serve the peace of the region. We will work for the peace of the region, for the peace of our country.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0403par0364	We too are in Syria for peace, protecting our borders.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0388par0365	We will strive to serve the geostrategic position of Turkey, the diversity of the peoples, the peace of the Middle East and the region, and...
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0406par0366	Respect, friends, respect.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0388par0367	...we will never lead our country's geostrategic position to war like you, to blackmail politics like you, to politics that covet the rights of others like you.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0407par0369	We don't have eyes on anyone's land.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0388par0370	Speak louder, I can't hear you.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0408par0371	Mr. President, there's been a lot of bullying in our group, and I'd like to answer from the stand.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0409par0372	Here you go, Mr. Turan.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0408par0376	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. First of all, we respect the free expression of the most extreme views from this platform, and we patiently follow them. However, there were such expressions in the talks that, let alone being a proxy, there could be very specific meanings that none of our people in this country would accept. For example, our young people's scholarships are being cut off because of their opinion.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0410par0378	Well, you did.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0411par0379	Why are you interfering?
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0408par0380	The essukulut is a good nag... I haven't started yet. Wait a minute, wait a minute. But, you know, grants and cuts depend on concrete criteria. If there's a problem with the criminal record, if there's a problem with success, they can be cut off. Again, when the speaker, described as "young" in the same way, used some harsh expressions in his speech, our friends warned us about his location. Mr. Group Vice President may well have said, "Why are you making small talk?" You can't be patient with young people. Friends, it's never about youth. Young people are the crown of our heads, but behind his testimony, if you use statements that are on the side of terror in this country's trial of terrorism, this group will rise up and say, "Stop!" So, it's not about the young, it's about something else. [[Applause from the EC PARTY ranks, noise from HDP rows]] The same young orator has increased Kurdish hostility by 900 percent. He said we can't speak Kurdish. But I looked -- it's not hard -- the school where he graduated, the Department of Kurdish Language and Literature at Mardin Artuklu University.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0412par0385	You didn't appoint him, you didn't appoint him! You couldn't appoint a female teacher, you couldn't appoint a substitute teacher, that's your respect!
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0408par0386	So, actually, the name of the university is the answer to you, and the part is the answer to you. Look, dear friends, here's the important thing... I wasn't going to say that, but I feel compelled to say that because you're still yelling, because you're not interested in understanding how they understand our conversations. Let's see. Look, I'll tell you this, dear friends...
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0413par0389	Listen to me first, your Deputy Director of the Group will respond.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0408par0391	Mr. President, if you could just give me two more minutes...
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0414par0392	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0408par0393	That friend, that orator, showed the photos of the four girls and said, "You lost." More than that, he showed a picture of a girl he claimed to have been raped and was released by your hand." Look, that's a dirty thing to say.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0415par0394	Yes, he did.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0416par0395	Your punishment.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0408par0396	From the foundation of the AK PARTY to this day, we are a team, a party that has removed torture from this country. If there are errors in the application, there are personal responsibilities, there are flaws, you can't take it to such a power, a party. Crimes have a code of character. If you violate the principle of the individuality of crimes, then we get the right to...
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0417par0397	Tell me something new, tell me something new, something new!
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0408par0398	That speaker of yours, your speaker, is a terrorist who martyred our government official, called Mazlum Mountain, the brother of Dersim Mountain. (KAK PARTY APPLAUSE, HDP ACTS) Then what are we going to say? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] If we are responsible, are you responsible for your brother's terrorist activity? This is wrong, this is outrageous! We're a team of people who respect the principle of the individuality of crimes.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0418par0401	Are you his brother?
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0419par0402	Are you Musa Orhan's brother now?
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0408par0403	One more minute and I'll be very brief, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0420par0404	Here you go, Mr. Turan.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0408par0405	You're the brother of the terrorist who martyred our dyplomat.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0421par0406	What's that supposed to mean?
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0408par0407	So I'm saying it's wrong to present personal crimes as the work of the entire government.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0422par0408	Don't twist, don't twist!
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0408par0409	Another friend described the Turkish-Kurdish brotherhood, which we cherish, dream about, based on the brotherhood of 83 million. I'm ashamed to answer that. I'll just say it's unfortunate if you make it into a rhetorical approach to our thousand-year history. You'll be admitting again that you're not interested in Kurds, you're not interested in a thousand years of brotherhood, but you are.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0423par0411	Exactly.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0408par0412	Look, another orator of yours, sir, you're killing the relics.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0424par0413	Yeah.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0408par0414	Have mercy, have mercy!
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0425par0415	Mercy! It's slander, slander.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0408par0416	Guys, there's people for us.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0426par0417	Don't tell stories.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0408par0418	There's no religion, no religion, no race. When we opened the doors, did you or didn't you? We didn't say, we opened the door for the oppressed, but let me tell you something else. The whole time that friend was talking... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, if you'll excuse me, this is important.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0427par0421	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0428par0422	But we agreed on three minutes.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0408par0423	Mr. President, dear friends, that friend, I've seen, a politician who grew up in Germany. Dear friends, you cannot make half that speech in Germany.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0429par0426	You can't, they'll hang you there.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0408par0427	You have the right to say everything in this country, even though it means unity, unity of the country.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0429par0428	Exactly.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0408par0429	Look, my dear friends, you've got the position wrong. The surrogacy is to serve the unity of this country. The surrogacy is to stick together on national matters when it comes to it. Acting is not the spokesman of the Kandil. (AS/TK) The deputy is not attending a terrorist funeral. Acting isn't about getting a terrorist in your car and driving. Acting is not to go to Turkey and complain to Europe. Acting isn't about taking terrorists' cell phones and breaking them out of the police station. (AK PARTY, applause from HDP rows) Acting is about shouldering the unity of this country, stepping forward.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0430par0430	It's rebellion against persecution.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0408par0431	We're tired of talking about it, and we're tired of telling you in your face, but you're not tired of hearing it. I salute you all.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0431par0434	They hide behind democracy, freedom, equality, they advocate terrorism, nothing more, they commit treason.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0432par0435	Don't make fun of me.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0433par0436	Ms. Meral, let me talk to her, and then answer me. Mr. President, let me talk to him, and then...
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0432par0438	But if you're gonna pick on me, I'll talk to you later.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0433par0439	No, no. I'll tell you something about you, if you consider him a tease...
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0434par0440	Mr. Deputy Directors, you only have one say, so we're going to add your time, but just so you know, there's gonna be a tour.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0432par0441	So... if I talk now and then he picks on me...
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0433par0442	Now, it's better that way.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0434par0443	Here you go, Mr. Nightingale.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0433par0447	Mr. President, thank you. Dear MPs, we've all heard the HDP Group's speeches. Of course, we sign all the statements Mr. Turan. We support them to the end. [[A round of applause from MHP and AK PARTY]] Now, our Foreign Minister, our Minister of Youth and Sports, our Minister of Agriculture here, even though it's not too much of an issue, all of our ministers will have to answer on these issues, but we have to say one thing: Now, in the Southeast Anatolian District, East Anatolia, let me tell you -- there have been some talk about young people being addicted to drugs, there have been mentions of drug trafficking, even a soldier being captured in lice. Now, we have to say here that the PKK terrorist organization is actually a narco terrorist organization. Again, on the United States of America's list of trafficking organisations, it is necessary to emphasize again that the PKK has been found again. In the same way, it is necessary to state that the PKK's top executives have been identified by the US Treasury Department as drug traffickers specifically identified. Again, in an article published by Der Spiegel in Germany, we need to express that the PKK has stated that children between 8 and 12 years of age have been sold drugs on the streets and commissions have been taken from them, not only to mount children and make terrorists, but also to use children in Germany, children between 8 and 12 years of age, here in the drug trade. Again, in the statement of Şemdin Sakık, it is necessary to note again his confession to the separatist -- that if there is no drug revenue, the terrorist organization will not survive.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0435par0455	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0433par0456	Again, the 2020 Turkish Drug Report, which recently stated that PKK, KCK, NYD have forced citizens to add cannabis in Eastern and Southeast Anatolia, and that they have received commissions from cannabis produced from it, that they have involved the villagers and the people of the region in the crime on this occasion, and that they have persecuted it, is very clear. It is also stated that it has made about $500 million in revenues. The PKK, which has used the region's people for drugs and drug trafficking, is actually crimes against humanity, not only against our Kurdish brothers but also against the international narco terrorist activities of ACK, NYD. Of course, we don't expect a party group that systematically accuses the state of what I've told them to do from here to condemn these activities by the PKK, the ACK, the NYD, of course, and they will continue to bless them, and the state of the Republic of Turkey will continue to fight them. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0435par0459	Thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0436par0460	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0435par0461	Mr. Beştaş...
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0437par0463	Everyone is eating the PKK's bread.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0438par0464	You eat his bread, you eat his bread.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0437par0465	I swear to God.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0438par0466	Without the PKK, you wouldn't be here. The PKK that even prefers your name!
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0437par0467	If you could just say something else...
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0439par0470	Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0438par0471	You have nothing to be offended about. You are here with the lists made by the PKK.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0440par0472	You don't even have a 6% vote!
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0441par0473	He won't vote!
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0442par0475	If you could just step in...
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0443par0476	Here you are, Mr. Beştaş.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0442par0477	Friends, I listened carefully to Mr. Turan. Actually, I took notes, but they were all...
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0444par0478	We're eating bread! Damn that bread to the ground!
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0442par0479	I think he'll give me five minutes, my dear President.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0444par0480	I spoke for two minutes.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0442par0481	I can't answer all of them, but I'll put it in general. First of all, the task of power is to listen to the opposition and to rule the country. We're the opposition party here, we point out our criticisms, we make our findings, and we tell them where the government is missing in these matters. Let's start with the photos. Our dear orator, Dersim Mountain, gave a very beautiful young speech and brought pictures of young people who even criticized it. Gülistan Doku -- you don't hear it, friends, I don't believe it -- has been missing for three hundred and forty-five days.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0445par0485	Well, you should have brought my son's. What if you brought my Eren Şahin?
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0442par0486	Her mother, her sister, was fined $50,000.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0445par0487	She was 17!
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0446par0488	They're looking through their own glasses, through their own window.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0442par0489	He's in custody. You know what the reason is? They're looking for their daughter.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0445par0490	You should have brought a picture of my son! She was 17!
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0446par0491	Come on, let go! He's not listening.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0442par0492	They are responsible for this loss; it is a constitutional responsibility. They have to find it.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0446par0493	They complain about the country to Europe.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0442par0494	They say if the bird flies, we will find it. A young woman has been missing for three hundred and forty-five days, and her mother cries day and night, and she cannot be found. Silk Er was raped by Special Sergeant Musa Orhan. He's been released. He was arrested for a week on appeal. And the Home Secretary, of course, defended Moses Orhan, of course. Now, in our criticism here, the AKP Group did it. We don't say that punishing the perpetrator is the responsibility of power. Why is it that a government who instructs the judiciary so much when a rape offender becomes an expert sergeant, it's a question, orator. Another thing our minister said... we can't speak Kurdish. He didn't say that. The Kurdish teacher.....19,000 and 20,000 teachers have graduated; 1 teacher has been appointed, 1 said.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0447par0499	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0442par0500	Right? I mean, that's how I listened to it. Otherwise we speak Kurdish in our home, in our street, in our family. What we're talking about is public education, native language education. Pointing to education, he says: "One teacher has been appointed, and how will one teacher teach 25 million people in Kurdish? " On the other hand, lawmakers, yes, indeed, our beloved Feleknas Uca MP, who served in the European Parliament for three years. He also knows Turkish, English, German, Kurdish, other languages are more dominant, so maybe he didn't make himself clear, and he's a Yezidi MP, one of the differences. Do you know that the people of Yezidi are bombing the people of Yezidi, and now Turkey is bombing the people of Şengal, after the 73rd Ferman?
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0448par0502	Oh, come on! Oh, come on!
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0442par0503	We condemned the ISIS attack. ISIS is currently committing genocide against Shengal. ISIS vs. Shengal... and I really don't understand why it's coming from you.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0449par0504	We are the party that protects the Yezidi.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0450par0506	Complete.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0442par0507	Let me give you an example: Do you know that two Yezidi children were found in Kırşehir? Who kidnapped him? ISIS. What's he doing in Turkey? We're talking to ISIS, it's coming from you, why is it coming from you? I thought you said ISIS was a terrorist organization. So the other one is Zozan K. Again, he was kidnapped in 2014 at the age of 16; four years later, he was found in Ankara. What's the business of the woman who has been kidnapped by ISIS in Ankara? [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] Indeed, as you say, the personality of the criminals, etc., is, of course, our objective as opposition is power, of course, we will criticize power, and who else should we criticize?
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0451par0510	But make the right criticism, it's not a lie.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0442par0511	You've got Internal Affairs, you've got Justice, you've got National Defense, you've got Foreign Affairs. We're telling you how it's supposed to be, and you're here, answering what we say. Now, the other one, the last thing I'm going to say... I'm so sorry, Mr. President, I'm not in a race.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0452par0514	Please, come in.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0442par0515	He's ranked here as a trustee, Mr. Turan. They said you can talk. Yeah, that's the new trend, you can talk to us, they call us.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0453par0516	You say everything, you say what you want.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0442par0517	Yeah, our talking -- I understand -- our friends... We have hundreds of friends in there who are talking right now, we have the mayor; we have Figen Yüksekdağ; we have Selçuk Spears; we have Altınörs; we have Ali Urkuk.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0453par0519	They're the ones who cooperated with terrorism...
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0442par0520	We go to prison because we talk, you know, because we tell the truth.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0453par0521	No, they're in prison because they're cooperating with terrorism, not because you're talking.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0442par0522	In addition, we receive this right of speech from the public, from the constitutional system in Turkey. We know how to be a trustee, but you still haven't learned how to be a minister in 18 years, and you're not really going to find out anyway.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0454par0524	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0455par0525	Here you go, Mr. Turan.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0454par0526	I respect your decision, and I won't take the stand, but for the record, for the record, we have no way of convincing each other, I see him. The speaker has interpreted our conversation differently while listening to us. For example, when I started talking, not talking, but speaking, I started to think that even the most extreme ideas would be spoken, that we would respect that. Second of all, the speaker has used a very large sentence, such as the answer, which none of us can accept. Look, Mr. President, the whole world is a witness that Turkey is the country that destroyed ISIS. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Mr. President, I, as Deputy Director of the Group of this EC PARTY, underline here again and say that ISIS is a terrorist organization, period. But I add that the PKK is also a terrorist organization, and that's the point again. How do they feel about that?
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0456par0532	What is it?
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0454par0533	Can they say ISIS and PKK? I'm inviting him again, Mr. President. That's why we refuse to be accused of terrorism, Mr. President, of an understanding that doesn't say PKK is a terrorist organization.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0457par0535	They can't condemn the PKK, because that's where they get the order.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0456par0536	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0458par0537	Mr. Altay...
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0459par0538	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0458par0539	No promises.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0459par0540	For the record... Just for the record, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0458par0541	Mr. Beştaş...
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0460par0542	Maybe he'll curse the PKK, Mr. President, let's make a promise.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0459par0543	We respect your decision. Someone is very uncomfortable because we're doing democratic politics here. In order to end violence in this country, someone is still insisting on blaming us for arguing that all problems should be resolved by democratic, peaceful, dialogue, negotiation.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0461par0545	Don't twist the words, is the PKK a terrorist organization or not?
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0459par0546	I mean, it's also about promoting violence to young people who are out there at the same time. I listened to our young congressman friend from the AK PARTY group, and I listened with great respect and sympathy, and when I answered, I said, "I'm very happy that the young people are here." He described happiness, and I was unhappy from my point of view. When we're listening to each other in this Parliament, if he's going in and out of here and there's so much attack on our young deputy, we need to think about something.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0462par0549	You're always doing politics. You're always doing politics. You're full of shit! Empty words, empty words!
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0463par0550	It was about something else, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0459par0551	I don't have to do anything because you want me to.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0464par0552	Mr. Altay...
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0465par0553	I'm sure I've been picked on by Bulent Turan, sir. Can I talk there?
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0464par0554	Here you go, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0466par0556	I didn't, Mr. President, don't.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0465par0557	Look at the transcripts.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0466par0558	You might say I teased Engin Bey's partner.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0465par0561	He's got a piece of terror, he's using it to make people forget who they are.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0466par0563	You can't approach HDP like that, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0465par0564	Dear friends, the Council of Ministers is in progress. In the past, we said, "Give the pensioner two holiday bonuses." We fought hard, we fought hard, with the strength of our Parliament. In the past, we have fought so hard as to call Tabherona, it was with the strength of our great assembly, and it was good.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0467par0567	We did that.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0465par0568	Now, we're screaming, the tradesman is in trouble and in trouble; his rent, his SGK, his taxes, his loans, he's in really bad shape. As Republican People's Party, this Parliament cannot remain silent as part of the tradesman's struggle for Covid-19. This Parliament can't keep quiet the way it is in 380,000 shops, only 750,000 waiters, busboys, chefs, chefs, dishwashers, bus drivers. [[Applause from CHP rows]] You said less terrorists, I said a lot of terrorists. No. We've seen in the past, today you've set up tables with men you call terrorists, dug trenches; I'm not there, I'm somewhere else.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0468par0571	They're in the past, look at now!
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0465par0572	Look, open up the nation." The more you say, the more you jump. I don't understand why you're jumping. Again, he's gonna take a break now, and we're all gonna eat. Dude, let's close our eyes for a minute while we're eating. I'm talking 750,000 waiters, dishwashers, cooks, bus driver, bus driver. For a moment, tonight, now that we're taking a break, let's bring them to mind while we eat. They said, "Go home." The former minister said, "We've given this many billion dollars. We've given no money, friends, loans, loans. (CHEERING) Debts delayed. We're the MPs. I told you yesterday, let's do one more thing: we need to keep the health workers up. Yesterday, four of our friends who got off this bench were called positive for Covid's test. I got tested, maybe I'll be positive tomorrow. If we don't make that health worker happy, if we don't keep him motivated, there won't be any valuable friends.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0469par0575	Complete.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0465par0576	So this House... Three Ministers are here, welcome, and you are members of that Cabinet. Don't worry about the details, the technical stuff. Don't jump when the nation says open, friends, people are hungry, they're miserable. Yeah, everybody gets something in their stomachs, dry bread gets in.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0470par0578	Then he's not hungry.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0465par0579	Dry bread... Well, uh, I'll take this report, I'll take this report, you'll see, you'll apologize to everyone.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0470par0581	You said it yourself. You said it yourself.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0465par0583	I'm just saying that people get dry bread in their stomachs, and the gentleman says, "Well, then they're not hungry." I leave it to the public's discretion.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0471par0584	He didn't say that, he didn't say that.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0465par0585	It's in the records.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0471par0586	No, he didn't say that.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0465par0587	Now, I don't want to abuse time. Today, here, look, I would like to present three speeches especially to the attention of Mr. Cabinet: First speaker Aysu Bankoglu, a young MP friend of ours -- I'm going according to the order of speakers -- the second speaker is Rümesa Kadak, my son's age.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0472par0589	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0465par0590	My third speaker, Mountain, is the same age as my child. Members of the Cabinet -- if I were you -- these three speakers, AK PARTI, CHP, HDP, different political colors, look at them from different perspectives. If I was sitting there, I'd do this... [[You can't sit in the lines of the AK PARTY!]] These three speakers...
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0473par0593	That's why he twists everything and twists my words.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0465par0594	I'm not listening to you, so think about how you're gonna pay for it.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0473par0595	Look at your own words, Engin.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0465par0596	I'd translate the speech of these three speakers -- you have experts -- into one text, one text. All three speakers have their side, their appreciation, their exclusion.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0474par0597	And don't let the skewer burn.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0465par0598	Not at all, not at all, not at all. Yeah, and all 3 of them had the cry of a teenager, and 3 of them had the cry of a teenager. Of course, young people are just voting machines for you. It's a shame, it's a sin! Gather the three speeches in one text, and I swear to God, you'll benefit from a number of decisions your government will make. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0475par0602	Mr. Altay, young speakers of the National Movement Party, Mr. Ismail Özdemir and Mr. Olcay Guidance, I have listened very carefully, so let's add them, sir.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0465par0603	I'm so sorry. They're not young, I gave them an example because they're young, but I'm sorry.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0475par0604	Thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0476par0605	Mr. President, I condemn the understanding that these people deserve dry bread. For the record, I condemn it!
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0475par0606	Mr. Turkkan...
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0477par0607	I'll take your word for it, if you'll excuse me.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0475par0608	Here you go, Mr. Turkkan.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0477par0611	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I pray that the budgets of the three ministers, which are discussed today, bring blessings to our country, to our nation, from God Almighty. I, as Mr. Altay just said, actually today we listened to young people's ideas from their own perspective, from their own perspective, from their own perspectives, to their own perspectives -- in the very beginning, my daughter, Rümesa Kadak.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0478par0614	It's our congressman, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0477par0615	Excuse me?
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0479par0616	I beg you, members of the law... Here you go, Mr. Turkkan.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0477par0618	I didn't hear anything.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0480par0619	Go ahead, it's nothing. You address the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0477par0620	Maybe he warned me, so I wanted to listen.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0481par0621	Here you go, Mr. Turkkan.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0477par0622	Yes, we block Turkey with artificial agendas at a time when the problems of nearly 2 million tradesmen actually reach the archipelago to disband families. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers are in a very difficult position. That dealer who used to throw safes, he stopped throwing safes, started throwing signs down.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0482par0624	Suicide, suicide!
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0477par0625	Work, he said, committed suicide. And yet, before we get too watery, we'd like to offer concrete suggestions. Mr. President was going to make a statement today, we couldn't listen, we were in the General Assembly, but I don't know if he was in those statements, but I'd like to make our suggestions right now: we're asking for six months of pro bono assistance to our tradesmen and artists who have lost their income, even though they're hungry or unable to open their businesses because of Pandem. We'd like to reset the rent-stop ratio for six months from New Year's. After March 2020, we want the loans to be extended for a year and thus paid by the treasury.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0483par0627	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0477par0628	We're asking for a six-month delay in payment due to tax debts. We demand loans of $10,000 per employee, loan payments of one year without repayment, and interest being subsidized by the treasury. The General Directorate of Foundations and municipalities have many tenants, and other public administrations have tenants. We're getting serious complaints from the shopkeepers and artists that they can't pay their rent. Turkey won't go down if they don't rent them for six months, but this tradesman gets a little bit of air. And for the rest of the year, we demand no increase in rents for at least a year. The fulfillment of these perfectly reasonable demands will give both our tradesmen and artists and their employees a little comfort and ensure that the economic activity will not be harmed. When Mr. Minister of Agriculture and Forestry is here, they'll answer later and they'll talk, I have a few questions for them... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I beg your pardon.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0484par0633	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0477par0634	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, President Erdogan used this expression in his speech to farmers on March 6, 2019: I regret to say that we still cannot offer meat to our citizens at the level we want. In 2003, the veal was sold for $9, while today the beef was sold for over 60 liras per kilo, over 50 lira. Do you do any work to reduce the price of red meat, indirectly, for our citizen to eat red meat? What's the rate of reforestation of our destroyed forests over the last 15 years as a result of the fire? What percentage of the burning areas have been re-innovated? Do you have an agricultural production support programme under pandemic support? What is the ministry's goal of resolving the victims of our farmers? We have agricultural products returning from exports, what's their end? Are these products sold to the domestic market for consumption? You gave raw milk producers 50 cents a raise today, raw milk producers with this 50 cents -- I swear to you -- they'll try to cut their animal's oath again in 15 days.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0485par0638	Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0477par0639	Everyone's milk per animal is low. The farmer, who used to gain 22 to 25 kilos of efficiency from the milk cow, is currently receiving 16 to 18 liters, which is why he can't feed enough. When you compare these feed prices with these milk prices, the cows are really taking turns cutting. Imported milk isn't far away. I'd like to get your attention. We're curious about the current stockpile of wheat from the Earth crop office. You know, the pandemic started, Russia closed down, and I forbid the export of wheat. We're wondering what our stock is at this moment, and we'd appreciate it if you'd mention it in your speech. Your ministry's 2019 Court Report states that it is qualified to provide and grant its incentives and support to the public at certain times, according to Article 7 of Law No. 5018. What's the real reason why there's no agricultural support report against the law? Is the report ready? When are you going to share with the public?
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0486par0643	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0477par0644	I'm ending it, Mr. President. In action from the Ministry's 2019 Court Report, many of the construction jobs proposed by the Ministry as a cost of delivering the key were seen to be made by a large-scale production amendments, each of which should be based on a necessary technical basis, but all changes were made by a general reason report, which was made after the tender day of the contract due to forced changes in the Court report, Mr. Secretary. What's the reason the bidding hasn't been followed? What's the budget that's being transferred to companies as a result of negligence? Has legal action been initiated on those responsible for the waste of public resources without prejudice? Mr. President, thank you very much for your good fortune. Is Mr. Abdullah here? Mr. Abdullah, I hear everything you say. If I did, I wouldn't have any answers, I really didn't.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0487par0649	That's what happened.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0477par0650	If it's a warning, I'd like to hear it. But don't even think about it, if we said anything, he didn't hear anything. If you say, that never happened. I've been in this Parliament all these years, and I've left here with no reverse in my life. Have a good evening, everyone.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0488par0653	Thank you, Mr Turkkan. Mr. Mustafa Destici, chairman of the Grand Union Party, you have asked for a word of bullying. Here you go, Mr. Destici.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0489par0657	The Court of Presidents and the esteemed MPs, first of all, I salute you. I respect the Republican People's Party Group. I have respect for all the patriotic, national lawmakers and party groups in the House. Our exception is the speakers of terror and violence, terror and violence. To this day, I have received the same respect and courtesy from the Republican People's Party and other parties, and I thank you for it. Today, however, Republican People's Party Mersin MP Genghis Gökçel has used statements that would be condescending and condescending to our Party of the Great Union and to my person. First of all, I reject it. From the day it was founded to today, the Great Union Party has continued its politics to serve the state, the country, the nation, for seven years -- honorfully, honorably, without a penny from the treasure. Now, size and size are not measured by numbers. If you say, "Our group has the 2nd number of the Parliaments, we are big." You're wrong. Everyone knows how many small stones break big heads. The army of Islam was few in Badir, but it won the war, and Malazzirt is a great example, and the Battle of Salvation is a great example. I'd like to remind our friend of the difference between quantity and quality, and if he doesn't know it, let him know it from the Turkish Dictionary. By the way, I mentioned the treasury aid, and I just heard a few minutes ago that all the lawmakers here in the opposition group talked about support for the tradesman.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0490par0661	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0489par0662	So I'm going to say, I'm going to suggest that this year, the next year's budget, five parties with this group, will be given 481 trillion dollars. Come on, let's go, put your hands under the stone, and spare it to the tradesman. Political activity has already stopped. Twenty-five thousand liras can be given to our 20 thousand tradesmen. Let the political parties hold their ground. As for what I said in my general speech on the first day, I explained here the right activities of the Ministry of Agriculture, and I said that the high investment share of the budget, particularly in State Water Affairs, is very important because it is vital to water agriculture. A friend from the Republican People's Party Group said there was no support. So I said to him, "Sit down, talk straight, there's support, but does it need to be done more?" I do. Yes, should the EVV in the diesel be removed? I think it should be removed, but that doesn't cover the other supports.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0490par0664	Thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0489par0665	I need one more minute.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0490par0666	Here you go, Mr. Destici.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0489par0667	Now, here today, the budget of our three ministries is being discussed. Of course, I follow closely the services of our Ministry of Youth and Sports as a leader of a youth movement, and I especially thank and support them for their recent investments in youth. In the same way, we talk to our Minister of Agriculture and Forest whenever we want, we pass on the farmer's problems, and he shows great interest. And I'd like to thank him and the entire ministry. We don't even need to talk about our Foreign Ministry, Turkey is taking the most important steps in the history of the republic; we're all proud in Syria, Libya, Eastern Mediterranean, and Azerbaijan. They can't be patriots and nationalists who aren't proud of them. For him, I wish that Turkey would never give up these steps and that it would go to the end at any cost. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Neither will we give up our rights in Libya, nor will we give up our rights in the eastern Mediterranean. For what it's worth, not the United States of America, we won't have a PKK state in the north of Syria if all imperialists unite, God willing.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit04spe0491par0673	I'm taking a 20-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0491par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 31st Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. 1) Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry 2021 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) Forest General Directorate 2021 Central Management Budget 2) Forest General Directorate 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) State Water Affairs General Directorate 2021 Central Management Budget 2) State Water Affairs General Directorate 2019 Central Management Final Account M) METEOROLOGY GENIORITY [[Continue]] 1) The General Directorate of Meteorology 2021 Central Management Budget 2) The General Directorate of Meteorology 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkey's Water Institute Central Management Budget for 2021 2) Turkey's Water Institute Final Account for Central Management 2019 1) The Ministry of Youth and Sports 2021 Central Management Budget 2) Youth and Sports Ministry Final Account for Central Management in 2019 1) State Department Central Management Budget for 2021 2) The State Department Final Account for Central Management in 2019 1) The Central Management Budget of 2021, President of the European Union 2) Central Management Final Account for the President of the European Union 2019 ÜRK AKRUDITASYON BUILDING [[Continue]] 1) Turkish Accreditation Agency Central Management Budget for 2021 2) Turkish Accreditation Institution 2019 Central Management Final Account We will resume negotiations with the Central Management Budget Law Proposal of 2021 and the Central Management Law of 2019, where we left off. The commission is in place. Now, on behalf of the individuals, in favor of Mr. Rizgin Birlik, Şırnak MP. Here you go, Mr. Union.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0492par0040	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of myself as MP of the AK PARTI Şırnak MP. I hereby salute our beloved nation and our Veterans Assembly. Dear lawmakers, our province of Şırnak, which has been known for many years for terrorism, has become a center of attraction, where the social reflections of the peace, security environment that is now being established have been seen in the social sphere. In 18 years, our government has invested serious investments in our province of Şırnak in all areas to resolve our people's brotherhood, peace, financial and democratic problems in the most right and most democratic ways. If we sum up the investments in our province of Şırnak; the airport, the opening of the university, seven public hospitals in healthcare, 10 health clinics in the field, one women's birth and children's hospital, 50 family health centers, 5 112 service facilities, 1 dialysis centers in the province of Şırnak are being built, and there are also projects to build 500-bed district hospitals. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Around 10,200 homes and 506 businesses were built by our government in the districts and districts of Şırnak in the area of environmental and urbanism. Youth was built in sports, 63 carpet fields, 25 multipurpose basketball courts, and seven youth centres. There were 408 school buildings and 21 boarding houses in the training area. (APPLAUSE) The most important of the routes taken -- the Gabar and Judi Mountains in Şırnak, where the terrorists were nesting at one time -- was completed by our government after twenty-three years of the Şırnak-Cizre land road -- which passed through Mount Cudi, which had been auctioned off by terrorists through the effective struggle of our security forces. (AK PARTY applause) The road was a total of 35km, but narrowed it down to half the distance to Cizre-Kırnaq. Work has been completed, with 4 tunnels, a total of 3,000 meters, 2 viaducts totaling 700 meters. It was served by our government. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Our other important topic is our security guards. Our government has taken significant steps towards the rights of some 55,000 of our security guards, still active, who have worked hard to combat terrorism under very difficult circumstances and have given thousands of martyrs. In this regard, the pension age has been reduced to 45, with a one-time pension, while the 18,482 rangers have retired. The pensioners' brother or children were taken as guardians. They've been paid for the mission, the reward, the operation, the compensation. There's been a transition to expert duty. He's been given the right to buy and carry weapons without an allowance. The children of those who were martyrs, or their brothers, were given the opportunity to become officers. One of the children of the martyr was exempted from military service. These rights were given to our security guards during the time of our government. The current demands of our security guards... are said to be having economic difficulties... because they have not received their dues, despite the fact that our security guards, who have been in the border and deported day and night, have been under very difficult circumstances. Our security guards need a raise in salaries, pensions, and other demands to be passed on to the relevant authorities. I believe that the righteous and reasonable demands of our ranger community, which is worthy of the best of all, will be met by our government. The head of all these investments, especially Mr. President, would like to extend my thanks to our government on behalf of Şırnak, with the respect of the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0493par0049	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, it's time for you to take the stand. The first word is from Mr. Bekir Pakdemirli, Minister of Agriculture and Forestry. Your time is 24 minutes. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0494par0054	Mr. President, I present to you the most valued members of our Veteran Assembly for our budget of 2021. I salute you all with love. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] As the ministry, we have mobilized all of our resources to bring Turkey to a stronger agriculture and forest infrastructure, to efficiency in production, to fertility in profit. We've declared 2021 a year of action in water and irrigation. As we've always said, it's more important than the defence industry to the agriculture and forest sector, and the pandemic has proved us right, and 83 million agree with us now. I'd like to do a little bit more figure-heavy presentation because we have to give our numbers, we have to share them, but at the end of the day, there's been a lot of criticism here, some of which are right, and some of which are the elements that need to be answered, and I'm going to be offering them to your appreciation. There's one thing I'd like to point out about the pandemic process: there's grocery lines all over the world, people are starving in their homes, people are taking turns in the markets, have we ever experienced anything like this in Turkey? We didn't. Now, of course the opposition doesn't approve, but there's a very important work in the background here. I'm, of course, a person who likes to share with all the partners if there's a success somewhere. I mean, we talked to the food industry, the production industry, and I thank them. We talked to the retail industry days before we saw the first case, almost a month ago. We said, "Make ready." I thank them. We told the logistics industry to prepare months ago. We thank them separately. Of course, one of the main reasons why we haven't had a problem with this food supply is also because of the strength of food and agriculture infrastructure that we've created for 18 years. What have we done in this context? We've done research on control of product stocks. As of December 2020, we have paid 19.9 billion of our support, 20 billion. We gave our farmer a diplomatic passport. What's a diplomatic passport? While we were sitting at home, we said: "Go out, continue to produce, plant, and harvest. We did the Plantation Project with 75 percent in 24 provinces. We've assigned the atil treasure fields -- we've worked with our Ministry of Environment and Urbanism -- to subsidize them with symbolic figures. And right at the beginning of his pandemic, we did some delays on agricultural loans. We've been talking all day about agriculture and the forest industry, but of course I want to go over TİK, international numbers, and all of that. Now, we've closed our agriculture, forest and fishing sector with an average growth of 2.8 per cent over the last 17 years and 18 years, with 14 per cent positive. Sir, this is a little bit. Right, this is a little bit more, but let's look at our growth in the 60s, and I've only drawn these numbers from the TİK numbers here. Our growth in the 60s averages is 2 percent a year. We've grown 2.8. And in the 90s, unfortunately, 1 percent of the growing agriculture is the forest sector. It's a growth growth of 2.8, leaving all European countries behind. (APPLAUSE) Today, a friend of ours said: "There is 8.7 growth in 2002. " But you must take an anomaly and then not sell it as if its size was a success the following year.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0495par0060	Mr. Secretary, we've come down from eight. Now you're talking about 2.8, there's no such thing.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0494par0061	1999, 2000, 2001, the average growth of 2002 is 0.4 per cent. Now, look, I'll tell you this: we didn't do these things to expect a thank-you from anyone about this pandemic, but we did the right thing when the world shook, we grew 5.3 in the forest sector, 5.3 in the first quarter. We have a faster, better growth than any sector. 2018 Τi 2,1; 2019/u 3,7; and 5.3 as of the 9th month of 2020. In the last two years, our agriculturally illegitimate national product has reached 277.5 billion dollars, 47 percent growth. (AK PARTY) Our sector's contribution to illegal domestic product is 5.8 in 2018; 6.4 in 2019; 7.1 per cent in the first nine months of 2020. Now, agricultural... if you're going to say: "Ya, Mr. Minister, foreign currency prices have gone up, you've gone up, the revenues have increased, the gross revenues have increased." On the part of the exchange, we can also say that we're at the top 10 percent of the world, and on the other hand, we're at an agricultural domestic product, which is $49.5 billion in 2019, we're at the top 10 percent of the world. Let's not play numbers, guys.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0496par0062	You play the numbers!
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0494par0063	I say good health to the farmer, the shareholders, and we can't have anyone demoralizing our farmer. I'm sorry. 18 billion, now, this is a net exporter issue... we have $18 billion in agricultural exports, 5.3 billion in foreign trade surpluses. In the last two and a half years, we've increased our exports by 6.5 percent, we've exported $50.7 billion, we have $14.6 billion in foreign trade surplus. Let's not try to bend the numbers, bend them, do anything else. Our agricultural exports are $15.1 billion and $4.5 billion over the first ten months in 2020. We're breaking record in the history of the republic on animal products. Our exports of livestock, livestock, crops and water products have increased by 9.5 times. In the last two and a half years, we've increased 28 percent to over $1 billion in water products exports, and we've passed 200,000 tons. Planting work, forest presence, Forest Resources Assessment (FRA), according to this, came to the 26th ranking in the 47th row in the world. Our export of non-wood products is 1.1 billion in 2019 and 1.3 billion at the end of 2020. There's something important here, very valuable lawmakers, I want to point out that our exports of forest products have increased by eight times to $826 million, and for the first time in the history of the republic, we've closed 2019 with an extra $479 million. In 2020, we'll be giving more than $1 billion in foreign trade. We've increased production season support in 2020, and we've brought in our new support. Now, we've got 50 percent support in mazotta, you know, we've gone up to $1.1 lira in dune cotton, we've gone up to 50 cents in fat sunflowers, a total of $1.6 billion in water products production. Our agricultural support has reached a real $311 billion grant in the past 18 years with a record of 12 times higher. If the presidency is in the government system -- here, unfortunately, the opposition has ignored it -- with a record increase of 52 per cent in two and a half years, our agricultural support has only been given to the farmer for 22 billion dollars. In December 2018-2020, we paid 51.6 billion liras, and we set out 22 for 2021, but with $24 billion, hopefully, we'll close 2021. Let's get to this 1% thing. I mean, I'm trying to respond to reviews, and I'm going over the cards that I made. State Water Affairs has received an investment budget of 2.5 times this year, 15.4. So when you ask OECD, OECD -- not like our opposition -- you give 2% support. It doesn't bother me to talk about it, let's always give the farmer more support, but it seems now that the OECD says that you're giving 2 percent support.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0497par0070	Do you believe in agencies or do you believe in us?
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0494par0071	The agricultural bank's subsidized loans, the investments made by State Water Affairs, the buy-ins by TMO.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0498par0072	They don't count. They don't support. They owe money.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0494par0073	There's no way we can count on any of this, guys, and we can only do that through the support given to the farmer. We also gave $7.4 billion in animal support in 2020, with a total of 60 times the scope of animal support, and in the last two and a half years, we supported $16.2 billion. We provided 10 billion grants and 100,000 jobs for 12,000 projects in 18 years as part of the Rural Development Investment Support Programme. Again, in the last two and a half years, we've provided $3,500 grants in the presidential government system and 18,000 jobs. We've invested $1.8 billion under IPARD, as part of the younger farmer's development, and in the part of the Uzman Eller, we've invested $1.8 billion. We provided $3.3 billion in loans under the ORC. As for TARSIM, you know in TARSIM, 50 percent are citizens and 50 percent are from the state. We paid $6.9 billion in state damage compensation, plus $3.3 billion in two and a half years. Well, here's the thing about betting again, because TARSIM insurance is running low. I looked at our 2010 insurance numbers, 10 percent, 2020, 20 percent. Let's make sure everyone gets a TARSIM, let's all work hand in hand, let's put everyone in a position to make TARSIM, but there's no reverse trend here, but we have farmers, farmers, farmers, farmers, farmers, breeders, growers who understand the value of TARSIM insurance as we go along. Last year, as you know, we did the Farm Forest. Gene, we talked about this in the budget here last year, but we said we'd do something different. I'd like to talk about our Agricultural Forest Shura to express that we did that. Let's come up with a five-year plan, let's talk, let's distill our ideas, let's get a plan out of here, let's come up with a business plan. We've done that, and all the other chapters have been useful, but there may have been some flaws in the pursuit of the services. In two months, we'll announce an action plan and schedule it and explain it. We explained our plan of action until 2020 and 2023. We will also be having the evaluation meeting of 2020. Again, I want to talk about our brand projects, but I'm going to go over one, so we don't have time problems here. We've put up our digital agricultural market. Today, planning, scale, the farmer's transportation to the market, co-operativeization, the unity of agriculture, all of its shareholders, and this digital agricultural market, including contract production, will grow to be like a small seed on the ground, and will become a tree. And now, thanks to this platform that we opened three or four months ago, we've come to several hundred million liras, and we're going to quickly include this in our agricultural production integration system, and then hopefully we'll eliminate the problem of marketing our farmer's property. He will sell his property to Edirne, our farmer who produces his property in Kars, and Antalya, who produces it in Antalya Kumluca, may have the opportunity to market it in any chain store. In our brand projects, as all of you know, we have a digital Agricultural Forest Academy; Keep Your Foods, Keep Your Foods, Our E-Advantment Portal, Agriculture-The Future, and Breathe into the Future; as you all know, we now have Breath to the Future that the world knows. This year, 28 countries and I campaigned for the future. Hopefully, if we get rid of this Covid plague, next year, we'll be celebrating our November 11th National Forestation Day all together, from seven to seventy-seven. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] It's about digitalization... you know, we've declared 2020, the year of digitalization. During the pandemic, we also had some applications that stood out - smart earrings, electric tractors, drones, and technologies related to them. And the other day, our Dutch ambassador came in, and we told our Dutch ambassador how to share them, how to exchange information, how to give them that information. It's about plant production... friends making Turkish farmers, not Dutch farmers you're always talking about. I'm giving you TIC data again. IN THE AK PARTY, 18 per cent increased from 2002 to 2018. From 97 million tonnes to 115 million tonnes, and from 2018 million tons of plant production was 124 million per 2020. And here we have an 8% increase. And I want to thank the Veterans Assembly for your support with the law on the use of 30% Turkish tobacco. And we've come to 1,150,000 tons with an eight-fold increase in the seed issue. And our seed exports came to 155 million dollars, nine times higher than $17 million. The native seed in the field is 96% qualified. The facts about this are not what the opposition says. Again, in terms of animal production, we've reached 18.6 million in the last two years, with an increase of 8 percent in size. If you look at 2002, there are 50 per cent increases, 60 per cent increase in 10 million in large, 32 million in small populations from Turkey. We have an 11 per cent increase in milk production in two years, a 7 per cent increase in red meat production, a 33 per cent increase in water products, and a 4.2 per cent increase in smaller than the first six months of 2020. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] By the end of 2020, we will provide 876 dams, 651 ponds and dams, 3.221 irrigation plants, 6.7 million hectares, 4.8 million hectares, and 4.7 billion cubic metres of drinking water. In the last two and a half years, we have invested $38 billion in today's figures. We've also raised $2.6 billion in agricultural revenues. What did we do with it? We've completed 72 dams, we've completed 80 ponds, we've completed 225 irrigation facilities, 45 HES, 46 drinking water, 5 wastewater facilities, 400 floods and 100 collection projects. There are no tests related to the food control issue. In the 2019-2020 period, we did 2.4 million inspections, increased control of the pandemic, exposed the copycats. During the 2012-2020 period, we were exposed 26 times, only five times in 2020. I mean, we've been exposed five times, with an average of two exposures a year. We thank the Veterans Assembly for the increased sentence for the increase in punishment, for imitation and battery. We planted 5.1 billion saplings in forestry in 18 years. We're among the top four lands in the world that make the most trees. Our forest area has reached 22.9 million hectares from 22.7 million hectares, and we've done this programme with 28 countries in Breathing Earth this year. Our first fire response time is down from 40 minutes to 12 minutes. We used 27 helicopters, 2 amphibious planes, 1 drone, 6 administrative helicopters and 2,600 vehicles in total. For the first time, we used drones, and for the first time, America started using military drones to put out fires after us. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] I also want to talk very briefly about our goals: 2.5 million Dekar mera reforms, 50 per cent in rural development, a total of 1.3 billion support, the Rural Development Hands Project, 200 million lira grants across the country, 170 million dollars in licensed storage, water products production, our goal in the production of 450 thousand tonnes, and 2 billion dollars exports in 2023, our goal of land collection is 8.5 million hectares, and Turkey is our target in the forest area of 30 per cent of its total land, 2023 per cent of its total. Our number of drones is going to be 4. We're going to produce 270 million saplings in 2021, we're going to produce 32 million cubic metres of wood products, we're going to have $1.6 billion in exports in our production out of wood. In 2021, we will complete 51 dams, 39 ponds, 92 irrigation facilities, 44 collection facilities, 15 drinking, wastewater facilities and 137 flood control facilities. (AK PARTY APPLAUSE) The late Ironel has a saying. You can't say you won't get wet in the rain, you'll have to get wet.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0499par0090	Come to the esnafa, esnafa!
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0494par0091	Now, we need to go on the analytic side and the glass is full. So my friends say: "Ya, you're not in the field." I've taken a measurement, and I've just taken out all the cities I've been to, and all of them, one mile at a time. Guys, for two and a half years, this friend of yours has traveled 800,000 miles. I left my family, including all holidays, somehow I was either on fire or in an earthquake or in a field or in a greenhouse or in a barn. So if there's a lack of information here, but it's very comfortable, if you follow our social media accounts, if you look at the newspaper clippings, we're, like, fifty-two weeks away. I was on TV last week on seven days. You're going to say: "This is what it is... you have to produce something to be on TV on the 7th of seven days. Either something's being achieved or I'm explaining a project or I'm shutting down a project. Now, there's talk of employment all the time. During the AK PARTI period, agricultural employment fell and agricultural fields were narrowed. I will give you something about them again, but now, the republic is established, agriculture has 43 per cent of the GDP. When it comes to the 1950s, 40 percent, 80 percent, 23, 93 percent, 14 percent, 2001, there's a 13 percent trend like this, and that trend has to be met normally. Oh, well, if you're saying that this country is going to produce drones, it's going to produce SIHAs, it's going to produce tanks, and it's going to have more kilograms than agricultural products, and for that, of course, we're going to have to move our agricultural production, and we're going to have to move it forward, and we're going to have to take its share of the total agriculture down from the cake. If you ask any economist, any economist will give you the same answer, you will diversify the economy. If you say: "Ha, do not produce the drone, do not produce the SIHA, don't produce the tank, don't build the defense industry, don't have the technology." [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Now, there are 1,070 tractors in the 1940s, 105 in the 70s, 997,000 tractors in 2002, 1 million 355,000 tractors in 2019.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0500par0095	How many mortgaged, how many?
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0494par0096	36% of our time, the tractor numbers have increased. The watering areas have reached 6.5 million hectares from 3.5 million to 6.5 million hectares. Now, about the wheat, sir, it's like this. You say it's about prices. The world price was 160 dollars, and this year we announced $182 in wheat. Oh, then there was a devaluation, a wolf movement, which I'll admit, but we always defend the manufacturer's rights. As promised, we always defended the manufacturer's rights. Now, I don't think you're right about these comparisons, but I'm going to give you the kind of comparison you like. In 2002, you would have to sell 65,158 kilograms of wheat to buy a tractor, while in 2020, you would have to sell 58,000 kilograms.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0501par0099	No, what tractor, a garden tractor?
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0494par0100	When you sell 1 kilogram of wheat in 2002, you can buy 0.27 liters of diesel, while you can get 0.30 liters of diesel at 2020. By selling 32,579 kilograms in 2002, you buy only 1 tractor and sell 24,000 kilograms in 2020.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0502par0102	Can you tell me the price of your wheat? At what price of wheat, you say what you import.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0503par0103	In 2002, when the farmer sold a ton of wheat, he received 33 grams of gold, and now he receives 3 grams of gold.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0504par0104	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0505par0105	It would be extremely wrong to say that the farmer's income has not increased here.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0506par0106	Go, go, go! Keep up the good work!
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0505par0107	Tomatoes, tomato makers are in trouble. Thirty-six percent production on the tomato, how hard is that? That's 13 million tons. Exports came from 253,000 tons to 535,000 tons, increased by 100 per cent; the price came from $276 to $567, up 105 per cent. From the Russian Federation alone to today, 2,500 tons of products have returned. Lemon...
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0507par0109	Minister, our apricot producers thank you very much in Malatya.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0508par0110	The nut makers thank you, Minister.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0505par0111	Of course, we said we'd produce productively friendly policies, and we said we'd do the purchases by explaining them before harvest time. With the support of our President, we have launched both support and intervention in the period of the EC PARTI governments. Our farmer is very pleased with it. [[From the AK PARTY rows, they applaud the sound of the voice of the "Bravo" (Bravo).]] Do you know, O Omar Fethi, that we are the third in the world in exports of lemons? In 2019, there were 177,000 tons of exports, and in 2020, we reached 248,000 tons this year, up 40 percent.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0509par0116	Mr. Secretary, the tomato remained in the field at Manisa.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0510par0117	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0505par0118	Let's not talk about it by heart. Look, you have to take certain measures during the pandemic period; Russia is taking, Romania is taking, the countries of the European Union are taking, and why won't we decide on export restrictions? Will the goods in three merchants' warehouses be more expensive? Is that why we're gonna buy it, or are we gonna do it so the consumer can find it when he's looking for it, and when he goes to the store, he can find lemons? Debts... agriculture Credit Co-operatives, 3,863 out of 347 thousand farmers, 1.1% in pursuit, only 1.1 per cent in pursuit. In our time, the debt increased, but in our time, we saved the farmer from the loan shark, the loan shark. [[From the AK PARTY rows, they applaud the sound of the voice of the "Bravo" (Bravo).]] Look, we need to raise the level of opposition to a certain degree. If there are no things to criticize us for, we will gladly give the opposition a subject to criticize, which I will now...
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0511par0124	Salute, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0505par0125	Throughout the history of the Republic, Turkey has been imported. Production has also increased in Turkey throughout the history of the Republic. Throughout the history of the Republic, Turkey is a net exporter, friends. The Netherlands, the Netherlands, the one you've always liked, you're always saying, has $17 billion in agricultural product, but sells $100 billion out of the country. I'm sure you've got $17 billion in product in the Dutch Parliament, $83 billion in product from the outside, and you're selling it abroad. Yeah, what kind of import lobby do you have? I'm 100 percent sure there's no talk, no talk. Let the opposition look at these Dutch Parliament reports. You could say that Turkey has $48 billion in agricultural non-nationals, but you only have $18 billion in exports. You, O Department of Agriculture, lead the way. In order to benefit more from the wealth of the region and the world, at a point where airlines, railways, land roads like Turkey meet, come, you buy Bulgaria's sunflower, you buy Kazakhstan's wheat. You should be telling the world to sell all the world's goods by processing them.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0511par0128	Hail, sir.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0505par0129	Mr. President, I'm finishing in a few minutes, I hope. Yes, it's also related to the question proposals, and we've answered 2,830 percent of the 3,180 question proposals, 90 percent, we're in the 3rd place as Ministry. We've already answered 14 of the 16 questions of our esteemed Deputy Fahrettin Hill's motions, but, for God's sake, of course, there's a place above our heads to support the living, but let us go where we're going to work in the morning, where we're going, where we're going to work in the morning, where we're going. We're working, we're working, we're at our nation's disposal. [[From the AK PARTY lines, the voices and applause are made by ▪Bravo (Bravo)]] I wish our budget would be a blessing. I salute all of our covens, all of them who support, all of them who don't. God be with you.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0512par0134	Just tell me why you dropped the customs duties, that's enough. Why are you resetting customs taxes? That's enough. It means your politics are failing. Just customs taxes, that's enough for you.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0513par0135	The second speaker is Minister of Youth and Sports Mehmet Muharrem Közoğlu. Here you go, Mr. Butcherson. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is 23 minutes.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0514par0139	Dear President, honorable lawmakers, I give you the 2021 budget speech of our Ministry of Youth and Sports. I salute our Veteran Assembly, you, our esteemed MPs, and the people who watch us from the beginning of the screens, our precious young men. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Yes, we finished a Covid process, praise be to God. In this process, I thank all those who are with me in prayer, with their support, with their messages, with their care, with the members of our precious Parliament, with my precious health workers. I pray that my Lord may heal all our ills who are waiting for a cure and make all mankind as poor as possible from this Covid plague. [[▪ Amen from the AK PARTY]] Yeah, we're talking about our budget today. I would like to thank the esteemed President and members of our Plan and Budget Commission and all those who have worked on preparing our budget, the MPs of all parties, and I would like to wish our budget of 2021 to our nation, our people, our young people, our athletes. Mr. President, we're leaving a year behind with the fact that the coronavirus, which began at the end of 2019, became a pandemic. This pandemic process, which affects the entire area of life, has put forth a very important challenge for both our country and all the countries of the world. Once again, I would like to express how grateful we are to all those who have been on the front line against the pandemic, our health workers, our scientists, our volunteer support groups, our security forces, and anyone who's given a shoulder to the struggle. Although we are in the pandemic process, I would like to extend our thanks to our Parliament, which has shown its responsibility to our nation very strongly. Yes, there are many heroes of the quarantine process, one of which is our Ministry's dorms. The virus, you know, is a 14-day quarantine process from abroad and in the entry into our country that has played an important role in controlling this spread and fighting the pandemic, and in this sense, our homes have allowed us to conduct this process in the best possible way. And in the process, our homes have revealed that not only are our young people, not our students, but this nation, this great nation. I can rest assured that Europe, which has not been able to overcome many problems in this sense, has successfully, in a strong way, established one of the requirements of being a social state, unlike the European countries who have failed in many practices. (AK PARTY) In our 81 counties, in our 293 homes, we welcomed more than 100,000 citizens from 97 different countries of the world at the temperature of a house. We've also assigned our homes to our health workers, our Justice Department staff, our military personnel, and our citizens who have been quarantined for precautionary measures. Even now, our homes continue to carry out their duties without slowing down in that sense. I'm proud to say that in moments that require a quick and practical solution, our country infrastructure is one of its stars, one of its investment moves, followed by our esteemed President Recep Tayyip Erdogan himself. The most important thing that strengthens our hand in this sense is that housing investments are designed, planned and built, not just for students, but to respond to all kinds of needs when necessary. Our young, our hope, our everything, our present, our tomorrow. We will continue to be with our young people in any way possible in the future, as we have been to this day. In the process, we also cancelled the payments of our students who resided in the dorms during which they did not live. We continued the loan and scholarship payments without interruption, and in that sense, our facilities were offered 24/7 service to our citizens, both in Elazig and Izmir, both in Malatya and in the earthquakes that occurred in Malatya. (APPLAUSE) In this way, our youth centers have been in the service of our people at all times, and in the closing process of this pandemic process, life can fit in the house. With understanding, we have increased our communication with our shareholders, and we have turned the social isolation process into an advantage by developing new methods and approaches. It was one of our main goals to protect our athletes' conditioning, body health, and motivations during the process that the competition did not take place, and we did it successfully, and we carried out effective cooperation, co-ordination, both with our government's institutions and with our NGOs. Again, whatever the circumstances and circumstances, we will continue to mobilise all the resources of our state for our young, athletes and our entire nation. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Mr. President, very valuable MPs, our country has a youth who is interested in all the developments in the world, who thinks, thinks, makes, is brave, intelligent, looks at life through the window of justice and conscience. As the Ministry of Youth and Sports, we work, produce and make efforts for a young person who can make independent decisions, have their responsibilities, recognize their abilities, dream, interact with differences, deal with human and environmental issues. AK PARTY is a young party, a party that exists for young people, a youth party; a party that has been blessed for 18 years by young people's ideas, their thoughts, their energy, their zeal, their hard work, their stone upon stone, and their power from young people to serve our beloved nation. As we try to guide young people through the experiences that we have with our traveling companions, he learns from them every day, and we also constantly update and improve the services provided by the state. We are aware of our youth; youth means hope, Turkey means hope. See, as Turkey's power grows, we can all see how brain migration is reversed. Now, here are the best engineers in the world, the best physicians, the best teachers, the young, the athletes, the scientists. Please, don't let the young people get their hopes up. Thankfully, under the leadership of our President, Turkey has now emerged from a great tunnel, a dark tunnel, led by a leader who cares about young people, who truly loves young people, and who makes them for young people. (AK PARTY) There is now a Turkey that has never been left behind from any country in the world, and is competing head-to-head with the most powerful countries in the world. Our young people know, they feel, in the best way, what that means. When the state embraces all its citizens, when regional injustices are eliminated, when universities open their doors to everyone, no one can fool or fool the children of this country. Our young people grow up in education, social opportunities, art, sports, and they represent our country, our glorious flag, all over the world. The breakthroughs in our women during the AK PARTY administrations are one of our sources of pride in what we came up with in work, in what we came up with in sports. Our athletes, women's athletes, have many organizations that we've had in 18 years, and there are women athletes in Turkey who have risen from 22.5 per cent to 41 per cent in that sense. Wrestling, taekwondo, gymnastics, ice skating, basketball, volleyball, archery, fencing, boxing, almost all majors, our women make us proud. When we look at the Olympics, when we look at the final competitions, we see that our women represent our country and our nation in the best possible way, and we believe that these non-incidental achievements will continue to increase in the future. And in that sense, with the revolutions of the EC PARTY governments in every field, there is no obstacle to our women who have never given up on the road to success today. Our fight against those who lead our women's lives in fear, who try to expose them to violence and abuse will continue with determination. (EC PARTY APPLAUSE) We must all take a sincere stand in the fight against the woman. Mr. President, I've been amazed by the efforts of some of our fellow lawmakers during the day to draw a dark picture. Let's not infect young people with the virus of unhappiness, despair, let's not do that. Come, let us be with our young, let us be with our young, let us be with our young, let us be with our camps, in our dorms, in our youth centers, in our young offices. Let us all see what achievements our young ones have achieved in the clubs that serve there, in the academys. Let us spend time together with young people who are learning coding, developing software, and taking robotic coding in workshops that we opened in a youth centre in the middle of Anatolia. It's not time to complain, it's not time to paint a hopeless painting; it's time to instill hope, it's time to be together. We know very well what dark paintings this country has come from. See, on this bench we remember those who tried to put a young and female member of this country in his place, in that sense, to put her in her place. We know people in this country who need wigs because of their headscarf, who go to school through bathrooms and bathrooms. We know students in this country who can't get into college with a coefficient barrier, but we don't hold grudges in any way. We're here tomorrow to make sure that these paintings never happen again in this country. We're here for the continuation of this bright picture. The youth of this country, no matter what sect, no matter what faith, no matter what thought, no matter what outfit, no matter what lifestyle they are expressing themselves in, we are all for this country to take full advantage of all its resources. Come and be with us in that sense. Let's all build our young people's hopes together, their motivation in this sense. Look, we have young volunteers. If you only knew how much love our young volunteers have grown with their hard work and their hard work. There is a study that we have signed with the SEC, which we have made available as an elective. Hopefully, we will strengthen this atmosphere of love between volunteering and our young people, and again, with the support of youth projects, we will increase our support for our young people, as we have increased their motivation for production, for initiative so far. Look, I just told you where we brought our dorms from. There's a 284 percent increase in capacity in 18 years. I'm sure we've got some fellow lawmakers staying in dorms. You all remember those 20-25 dorm rooms back then, bunk beds, toilets, bathrooms.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0515par0159	We lived, we lived.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0516par0160	Forty years ago, I was in a room of four, which dorm is that?
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0514par0161	They've just told these facilities that there's spirit in these facilities, there's heart in these facilities, there's sweat in these facilities. (AK PARTY) For example, we have a home, a comfortable home, equipped to compete with hotels in Sivas. Again, our Ataturk Student Home in Cevizlibagal, Istanbul, is a home that we built for our daughters in the heart of Istanbul. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Please, let's see these, let's raise hope around here.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0517par0164	Why don't you make it the way it was, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0514par0165	You're right, you have to show it, but I believe you feel it. Again, our sports installation is a fully equipped pool that is ready to open at Gaziantep. We will grow swimmers here, grow swimmers who will wave this glorious flag. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Again, Burhan Felek in Istanbul was the Athletic Field. Construction continues at all speeds all around Turkey, and we haven't stopped at the pandemic for a minute.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0518par0169	Let's raise a rallyer, rallyer!
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0514par0170	We support the rally, volleyball, basketball, more than 60 percent of the majors; in each case, we raise and raise young people who will be proud. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Look, the spot on the loan is $550 at $45 as of right now. We're giving scholarships to 450,000 students. Now, I want you all to realize that in this sense, our country is walking with young people who believe in tomorrows, who produce, who, in a different way, work for tomorrows. Yeah, we have sports projects that we care about. One of them is swimming, the other is athletic, the other is gymnastics. All majors in that sense... I've mentioned more than 60.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0519par0174	What about Saffet Bey's offer?
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0514par0175	I come to the offer of Saffet Bey, and thank him, and to you, and to all the Coven. Hopefully, our House will make its way through sports reform with all its members. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] We have goals in swimming, we have goals in athletics, we have goals in gymnastics, and we believe that our athletes will come back from Tokyo proudly with medals, and we will applaud them.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0519par0179	I hope so.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0514par0180	Yes, there's Ibrahim Çolak, who used to be our pride in gymnastics, the Süleyman Black Sea wrestling. I'll mention a few of them. Believe me, I'd like to remember them all: all our pride, all our hope. There's Emre Sakçı in swimming. We've got girls, we've got the Rhythmic Gymnastics Team; they won the championship 15 days ago, we applaud them. We've got the athletic team, only yesterday, we've got the champions, and we've got the gymnasts again. We have a free-diving girl, and Pentathlon has a principle. Everyone keep a close eye on these achievements in this sense. I'm always stressing that sports isn't a few majors, so I'll keep stressing. I'm asking for your support in our efforts in this sense. I beg you to join me in this sense, and I hope that this country is much brighter with this glorious flag in its eternal hands, with these athletes living up to that pride, and let's believe it. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] We've put an end to the dilemma of education or sports, and it's a very important development. In that sense, our athletes will now continue their studies and march into tomorrows as athletes, not just training or sports or dilemmas.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0520par0183	There's Farhad Arıcan.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0514par0184	There is Farhad Arıcan; there is Ahmet Jeşal; there is İbrahim Çolak; we are proud of them all.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0521par0186	This has always happened during the AK PARTY period.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0522par0187	Zelal Sarıoglu exists, but now he's a seasonal agricultural worker.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0514par0188	Yes, we organized a Sports Worktay. In 2020, the common mind as a ministry is our basic philosophy. We value consultation, common sense. We've always adopted this common mind as a road map, a philosophy. And in that sense, with the Sports Worker that we performed, Mr. Saffet, he spoke in a very detailed way -- we discussed all the issues, with all the partners, we invited everyone. I give thanks to everyone who supports, attends, produces in this way. We will share the outputs of this operation with our Parliament in the coming days, both financial and administrative work at the performance point, brain storms, hopefully, as a reform strategy for sports. We will take this historic step together, hopefully, in order for both our clubs and our federations to be stronger and more equipped in the future. I sincerely thank Mr. Saffet and all those who contributed to him. And I want to express in particular that we trust our House in that sense, that I believe our Parliament will take a historic step in this work. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] From now on, everyone in the new era will be responsible. In the sports agenda, no one will be able to scatter in the conjunctive, and we will raise new Josephs, Merihler, Ibrahims, Principles, Fatmas, Cedi Osmans, Ages, Furkans, Shahikas. We're going to invest in the sons of the country, we're going to develop our sports pool, and we're going to increase the number of our champions. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, it's a sport-building, sport-turning phenomenon. In this sense, sports industry and the opportunities that our country has for us that we believe are very rich, and in this framework, we're again going to take the steps to make our country a brand in terms of sports tourism, and hopefully with this vision document, we're going to make it a brand in this sense. Our ski resorts, which we built in the mountains of Hakari, are hosting skiers from many countries around the world today, whose rafting tournaments in the rivers of Şırnak are being cleared of the bombings of terrorist organizations. (APPLAUSE) As the terrorist organization betrayed the people of this country, they did the greatest betrayal of the land, the cities of paradise, but despite them, despite their destruction, burning, we built those facilities one by one, we renovated them. We also train athletes from there who will proudly wave this glorious flag. The week before, we were in Hakkari. Look, this is Haqkari, the Hakkari, Zap Water that someone is trying to extinguish. (AK PARTI) We will develop sports, sports in Hakkari, Mardin, Şırnakta, Siirt, Diyarbakır, Adıyaman, Urbana, and the champions will grow. We believe it, it has first steps, it has first fruits. I'm giving you good news. Yes, dear MPs, I'm afraid twenty-three minutes go by too fast. I have a lot to talk about, a lot to share, but I always say: "Come, let's not squeeze such matters into one day, two days; for you, as Ministry, all kinds of communication is always a pleasure to give you all kinds of information, to discuss everything in that sense. Of course, we value criticism, criticism and opposition are essential to democracy. Without criticism, there would be no progression of human mind, science, philosophy, thought. Your sincere criticism is a source of motivation for us, and I want to make it perfectly clear. And I want to stress this in particular: regardless of the circumstances, we use our country's resources and resources for the power of this country, for the children of this country. We're thrilled to see how many cities, towns, towns, cities we've brought in, how much important services we've brought in. There must be no district of Turkey, so we don't have any work. We've come this way. When it comes to the children of this land, I don't think anyone here would think differently of each other. The young men of this country are our eyes. For us, it's not just today's agenda, it's every day's agenda. Their troubles are for each and every one of us, and their joy is for all of us. So whatever we're doing, we'll do it together. We're a country with a conscience. Our President's world is greater than his five. With his understanding, we are a country that is always on the side of the oppressed, on the side of right, on the side of justice. (AC PARTY APPLAUSE) Here we are, last week in Paris, in the middle of Europe, with our team, our athletes, and we are proud of them. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] It's the way of the brotherhood, we'll walk this road together. We're not separate. No one can separate our young people or a member of our nation from each other. We're the same garden, we're the same mountain, we're the same reed.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0523par0200	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0514par0201	Mountains, we have an oath for ages; we are brothers, we are one nation. Our cause is humanity, our cause is youth, our cause is nation, dear friends. I beg you to accept this as a call. I want to express to you that we will place any ideas, any projects, any proposal above our heads. Participants is the basis of all our policies. Let's talk, we'll argue, we'll do better for the young, we'll do better, we'll do better, we'll do better. We've been working with all of our colleagues, our team, our cabinet, our Parliament for a whole year with this zeal, this faith. We've been working with the same zeal for 18 years. In that sense, we're grateful to anyone with a needle, a stone, sand, sweat. May they exist, may they be saved. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] I hereby wish our budget of 2021 would bring blessings for our nation, for our young people, for our athletes, and I wish you a good time in your successful work, with health, with pleasure, with pleasure. Thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0524par0209	The order of the speech is for Mr. Mevlüt Sergeant. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0525par0212	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear MPs, I am proud to address our Veteran Assembly on the 100th anniversary of our national sovereignty. I salute you all. On this occasion, I, Veteran Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, the Bani of our Republic, remember all of our veterans and martyrs with mercy and gratitude. May our 2021 budget be a blessing. Last month, I made a comprehensive presentation of our foreign policy on the Plan and Budget Commission. We tried to answer questions from our MPs, and then we gave them our answers in writing. In addition, in our brochure, the details of our foreign policy and our foreign policy stance are widely explained. Instead of telling you about each and every single issue here, I'm going to try to share our general foreign policy vision with you, and I'm going to thank all political party groups and lawmakers who have expressed their views on our foreign policy. Before we got into the details of our foreign policy... there was a flood in Izmir and Antalya, which was heavy. We've learned that two of our citizens have lost their lives. We ask for God's mercy on our citizens. The soul that leaves will not return, but the damage that our citizens suffer will always be identified as it has always been, and I hope it will be done accordingly. Dear MPs, the Honorable President, the world is really going through a radical change today. We're all living together on a global level and in our region, and the pandemic has accelerated this transformation. The world is now multipolar; more than one focus of power is trying to guide progress in its own interests. Regional ownership has become important. In addition, the competition between the great forces is getting stronger. This is a wide range of competition, power wars, trade and energy wars. Now we see that the fittest has become the pale, not the right. The gap between rich and poor communities deepens, and matters such as global growth differences and prosperity inequality, climate change, have come to a point where no one can be indifferent anymore. There's really a pattern that it doesn't seem possible for all the groups that are behind the problems that I've just counted to correct them or to close the gap. It's a pity that the conflict is always happening in the same geography, and many of the conflicts, the problems, are still, unfortunately, in our geography. And especially in the West, we see that populism, anti-Islamicism, racism, and alien hostility have reached serious levels. I just told you that the pandemic speeds up the transformation, not only does it accelerate the transformation, but unfortunately it deepens the problems that exist. So, what are we doing as Turkey against these developments, I'd like to share them with you, dear MPs. In an environment where the world has changed so radically, we do not watch events, we follow an entrepreneurial and active foreign policy. Without Turkey or Turkey today, it is the result of Turkey's active foreign policy if there are no steps in cases such as Syria, Libya, the Eastern Mediterranean, the Caucasus, Afghanistan, Iraq. We don't expect everyone to like us, but we expect everyone to respect Turkey's rights. Besides, Turkey is now a global actor, and everyone will learn to respect that. If we, today, remain silent about the developments I've just been trying to make, if we stand by, we'll have to follow other people's plays, or we'll have to live those scenarios. We are now quarterbacks when necessary as Turkey, but when the time comes, we also disrupt the games of those who play against the interests of our country. So we have to be strong and write our own story. What kind of foreign policy do we run with this consciousness? First of all, we learned to use the field in harmony with the dynamics brought by the presidential government system. Diplomacy is always our priority. We always have a desire to resolve problems through negotiation and the winning-win principle. However, where diplomacy fails, we force diplomacy and a peaceful solution by showing height and presence in the field. So here, as Mr. Hishyar Ozsoy said, we don't show up in the field to stay at the table, we show our strength in the field where the table doesn't work, and we get everyone back to the table. And we have to, otherwise the problems will get bigger, and we won't be able to solve them. I want to give examples. In Syria, we've pushed a lot of negotiations and dialogue to prevent a terrorist state from forming just beyond our borders, but we've seen that there are people who don't understand negotiation and dialogue. Then what did we do? We went down to the field and cleared the terrorists across the border, cut our own bellies. (AS/TK) In addition, since the beginning of Libya, we have taken part in the political solution, and I personally joined the Suheyrat Agreement. In Istanbul, Moscow, Berlin, and other platforms, we tried to work out a political solution, but those who didn't want stability in Libya and who didn't understand dialogue wanted to continue the war, and that's when we went down to the field with the authority of our great Assembly and brought everyone back to the political solution table. This happened because of Turkey. (AK PARTY AND MHP APPLAUSE) And that's how we prevented the blood of brothers from being spilled in Libya. From the beginning in the eastern Mediterranean, we defended dialogue and rightfully sharing. The Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus and we said, "Everybody wins." In return, we've always seen unilateral policies, and we've shown flags in the field again. We supported our call for dialogue and rightfully sharing in the field. We will continue to defend the rights of our country and of the Turkish Cypriots to the fullest. Now, here's our Deputy Group President, Mr. Engin Altay, who also spoke of his 1974 spirit in Cyprus. While we take all these steps, as I said in the Commission, I sincerely say we act with the spirit of 1974. We, in the spirit of the late Ecevit, act with the spirit of the late Necmettin Erbakan, in the spirit of the late Alparslan Turkesh, and live that spirit. But I'm sorry to say that even your members questioned us and accused us of opening the Closed Marash.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0526par0223	We said, "Open all of it." We said, "Open all of it." We said, "Open all of it."
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0525par0224	No, no, it's all... of course we're doing inventory, it has to be in accordance with international law, it has to be in accordance with UN decisions. Everyone has property there, so we have to do it with respect to property rights. There's a time for everything, but at least we'd expect your support for the first step.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0526par0225	We backed it up. There's bullying.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0525par0227	In the same way, in Upper Karabağ, we said, "Dear MPs, for thirty years, the dyplomasi and the negotiation." When it didn't happen, Can Azerbaijan landed on the field and took the rightful one, Can Azerbaijan. Otherwise, who knows how many more 30 years he'd have to wait. And now we're putting together the foundations of regional peace. Mr. Ünal's words have been expressed here, and I have to answer to them. Unfortunately, you questioned the support we gave Azerbaijan in the first place, and you questioned the language of Armenia with the language of those who criticized Turkey here, and we couldn't describe it at all.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0527par0229	Bravo, Minister!
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0525par0230	Not to one of our former members -- I'm telling you my truth -- we didn't. (ARK PARTY APPLAUSE) There is no such thing as taking him away from Syria, taking him away. Here we were always in the presence of Azerbaijan. Azerbaijan had the power to buy his own land. But it could be him, it might be your different opinion; you're the opposition, we're the power, but I want to ask you, Mr. Riot, who told you that the deals with these observation centers that we signed with Russia were confidential? So, who said we were hiding it from Azerbaijan?
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0528par0231	Biden told me, Biden.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0525par0232	We signed two protocols with Russia, two, and each of them sent the manuscript to Azerbaijan first, after Azerbaijan had signed it. Who told you we were hiding it? Who told you?
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0529par0234	They have friends, Minister, they have friends; their friends told them.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0525par0235	Really, I mean, here, all this support for Azerbaijan... and what did we say about his location, what's in the deal? We said we'd set up our headquarters at the point of Azerbaycan. The honorable MPs supported Azerbaijan (Azerbaijan) in the process, but we also saved our country from the shame of Boraltan. [[Applause from the AK PARTY and MHP rows]] To sum it up, we've always been on the side of the table and the dialogue, and then we'll continue to be like this; we've gone where our interests are; we've worked to protect the interests of our country, our nation, but we've always achieved peace and justice in the field. Dear lawmakers, we're not naive, we know the real politics very well. There is emotion in foreign policy, politics, but we know very well that in foreign policy, not everything goes only by emotion. So we try to follow a realistic foreign policy. Here, you all know a little bit about foreign policy, where there are no lasting grudges, and in all our courses, they've taught us these things, but it's our duty, yours, yours, to establish foreign policy for whatever is in the interest of our nation. No problems with foreign policy? I do. Foreign policy isn't a rose garden without thorns, it's a problem everywhere. In the same way, can you face problems, challenges, as you conduct diplomacy? Yes, you can stay, we're staying, but it's our job to get over it, make an effort. So, when we have problems with a country, lawmakers, criticize us, yes, but please don't try to point out Turkey as responsible for everything here. I told you in the budget, no matter how many problems there are, no matter which country we're having problems with, Turkey is wrong, the AK PARTY is wrong, the Cumhur Alliance is wrong; let's get rid of that understanding. So, be against us, really be against us. Look, I'm not saying you're being hostile to Turkey, but please don't oppose Turkey and our national interests, but be hostile to us, criticize us. For example, we're taking steps with Russia, and it's a slow shift. After that, we support NATO membership in Ukraine and Georgia, and this time you're accusing us, as in the budget. Well, there's a decision to make.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0530par0240	It's up to you to decide. You make a decision.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0525par0241	We're... we're well aware of the balance of this. We've made our decision, we're doing it, we're taking it in balance, and you understand that.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0530par0242	You're talking about the European Union again.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0525par0243	Now, there are things that we don't agree on with Russia; there are things about Crimea, about Ukraine, about Georgia, Syria, Libya, there are points that we don't agree on. Sometimes we have the advantage of being on different sides, whether it's in negotiations, whether it's in the gathering of the Constitutional Commission, we see the benefits in many areas, but we have to continue to meet in common interests where we don't agree. On the other hand, the two countries have a common interest -- political, economic, energy, tourism -- we need to develop relationships with everyone. Likewise, we really expect constructive and consistent criticism from you in these matters, and I sincerely say so. Look, I'm not attacking you or your personal rights. In a very sincere way, you said your thoughts, and I said mine.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0531par0244	We're expecting you.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0530par0245	We'll see.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0525par0246	Now, some of our NATO allies say that let's get Turkey out of NATO. Some countries say that. I am one of NATO's most powerful countries, one of the most contributing countries, so why should I leave NATO?
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0532par0248	We're hosts.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0525par0249	We don't want anyone to leave, but the brain death of NATO has happened. If anyone here is uncomfortable with our power, if they want to get out, they should, but we don't want them to. [[From the AK PARTY rows, they applaud the sound of the voice of the "Bravo" (Bravo).]] In the same way, does the European Union double-standard us? It fits. Do we have a lot of systems to do, too? I do. You can criticize us, we have flaws in this process, and we're making self-criticism, but is it realistic now to cut ties with all of Europe, with the European Union, with the European countries? It's not realistic; we have business relations, we have energy, we have migration, we have other issues, we have visa liberalisation. So, of course, we want to improve our relationships by overcoming problems or by overcoming problems. So it is our duty to take the necessary steps in the right places, just as it is in the eastern Mediterranean. Again, it is not possible for us to give up our rights and interests in the Mediterranean because we will be sanctioned or because the European Union will criticize us. Mr. President, high-value lawmakers, Turkey is using its hard and soft power today in a very balanced way, in a very useful way. So it's been a globally intelligent force, the Republic of Turkey. We use the hard force elements all over the field, and we use our soft strength to the fullest. I'd like to give examples: from distant continents where Turkish Airlines carry our flag, to remote villages where our TİKA is helping us; from the classrooms our Turkish Maarif Foundation teaches, to refugee camps where our Redbeard delivers aid boxes; from Turkish scholarships, to the schools our religious officials teach in the Balkans, or to the heritage of our ancestors, we touch people everywhere. You're telling Turkey that the Militariss is following politics. But Turkey is now an important actor in soft power, as well as the human foreign policy I just described. Today, Turkey became a world brand in mediation. Today, in the OSCE, in the United Nations, in the Islamic Co-operation Agency, who is the co-chairer of intermediary with different countries? It is the Republic of Turkey. Why is Turkey always the co-chair in the finder's office when different countries are changing? Members of parliament, we now teach foreign diplomats, we teach courses, they train us; this is the power of Turkey.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0533par0254	Why don't you do it here?
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0525par0255	On the other hand, see, not only in our geography, but in Somalia, in the Philippines, in the Mali, in distant geography, like Venezuela, we are respected and contribute as honest and fair negotiators. We're not following a combative and militant foreign policy, and I'd like to say that from here. Dear MPs, there are daily problems, we're dealing with them. As we solve today's problems, we need to show vision for the future. What future awaits us? What kind of world awaits us after the pandemic? Can we solve problems in our geography or not? Five years from now, ten years from now, we have to think about what's going to happen. So we try to follow a visionary foreign policy, not a daily one. During the pandemic period, for example, everyone talks about digitization, digital diplomacy, but we started digital diplomacy two years ago. When the pandemic started, when everyone was panicking, we were ready for digital diplomacy as a country with a strong infrastructure, and we used it very effectively -- as I said before in the budget. Furthermore, thanks to our 20 years of power, powered institutions and the leadership of our President, Turkey has been a leading country in the pandemic era, access to medical supplies, fight the epidemic, and in the global cooperation. On the other hand, books prepared by our Ministry, two books, and other reports were among the first strategic predictions in the world. (Applause from the AK PARTY) 2 books: "Covid-19 After Global System: Old Problems New Trendler (After Covid-19 World: Collaboration or Competition?" One is Turkish intellectual, thinker, authors' opinions; one is the world's most respected intellectual, author, former statesmen, and Nobel Prize-winning authors. We asked, they wrote it for us. You're saying that no one cares about Turkey, Turkey has no reputation. The world's most important writers, the intellectuals, sent their thoughts about the future because we asked them to. I mean, it's not something to be proud of, but it's important to show this vision. Congressmans, we're running out of time. We always have people at the center of our work. So we also work abroad to give the best service to our relatives and citizens, to improve the quality of our consulate services; we have already explained this. Now, with artificial intelligence, with the speed app, we will serve our citizens and our descendants for 24 hours. We will continue to protect the rights and interests of our descendants from the Balkans to Crimea, from China to Iraq. As a result, there are challenges, but there are opportunities, and we need to make good use of them. We, in summary, will continue to use diplomacy effectively until the end, and in this direction we take our power from the nation and, of course, from our great Parliament, where the authority of our great nation, its will, comes. See, to explain how Turkish foreign policy is viewed by our friends, I'm going to read to you: Turkey is a country that operates independent politics worldwide. Turkey has become a global power centre thanks to President Erdogan. In many countries, Turkey defends rights, justice, the interests of oppressed peoples. Today, Erdogan Turkey is an example of the world; it is an example of independence, courage, courage, and development. (Bravo (Applause, applause) These words are not from me or from a member of our party; these words were given to the press on Thursday by Mr. Aliyev, the President of Azerbaijan. And that's not just Mr. Aliyev, that's the way it feels all over the world. And yet, I would like to respond to the criticism of some of our MPs from here. Look, I see your comments about the defense industry, and I'm very sorry. Today, the largest companies in the world are EUROSAM, France, Italy; Airbus, 5-6 countries; F-35, we have difficulty supplying, but nine countries share. Instead of being dependent on the outside of the defence industry, don't bother bringing in foreign global capital to strengthen production in our country; it's not selling the country. Please, let's not get ahead of ourselves, but our people can see very well what it is. On the other hand, I'd like to say to Yunus Emre [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] You're objecting to postings from outside, but it's a law in 1965... and we've appointed the most suitable person for OECD, and we've appointed a professor who does all his work on OECD; it's not a political choice. Now, based on what our friends here have just said, as the group's deputy president just told us, we have one Yezidi MP in our parliament. I'm happy to have 1 Yezidi nation in our parliament, which shows the wealth of our country. But I saw you accuse Turkey of Yezidi.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0534par0266	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0525par0267	Really, I'd like to ask Mr. Congressman a question to Falaknas Uca. Do you know what you Squirrels are going through now?
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0535par0268	Not Yezidi, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0525par0269	The brothers of Jezidi first drew away from DAEŞ, and that is true; and the Keldanis also drew; and the Syrians drew up. But have you ever heard of Nadia Murad, the Nobel Prize winner and victim of DAESS? Nadia Murad told me and everyone that the PKK has left. Now the PKK is oppressing the oppressed. (AK PARTY and MHP rows) He said to me: Mr. Minister, please stop your operations. Because the PKK is taking our children to Mount Sincar, and when you send your planes, they hide themselves, they put our children in front of them, they're our children. Ask Nadia Murad, if you don't believe me, ask Nadia Murad. Can you, as an Ezidi, question this?
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0536par0271	Where were you when the E.R.A. attacked?
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0525par0272	Why can't you question him? Your party group won't let you or the PKK won't let you?
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0537par0275	Let's complete it, sir.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0525par0276	In the same way, are you insensitive to the persecution of the Syrians in Syria? You grew up in Germany, where you also served as a parliamentary speaker. Ask the President of the World Arab Congress, Johnny Messo, and the others, please. Please hear from them how the PKK persecuted Kurds, Yezids, Keldanis, the Syrians and the oppressed there, and how it shuts down the schools, and I ask you to listen to them.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0538par0278	Why didn't you protect the DA when he attacked?
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0525par0279	DAEŞ is a terrorist, a low terrorist organization, and the PKK is a low terrorist organization, but if you say both, I'll respect you.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0538par0281	Where were your companions when ISIS attacked?
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0539par0282	Where were you?
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0525par0283	And finally, again, thank you very much for the support that Ahmet Erozan had given to our member, the Ünal Riotist, who, in the first place, said, "Our budget is insufficient." And you've been assistant to the undersecretary. We've never had a problem with funding. Every time we asked our Finance Ministry for additional funding -- you were in charge of the IMAD -- they all came in, but we thank you for your support.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0540par0285	Complete.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0541par0286	Tell me about the Uygur Turks, Minister.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0542par0287	Mr. Secretary, we'd like to hear from the Uygur Turks.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0543par0288	One moment, sir... But if we had not been able to appoint ambassadors to Israel, we would have published them, when we had appointed them. Well, I'd like to ask you, Mr. Erozan: use the budget economically, we'll get it in the second half of the year. What's up? What's going on? Do you also expect hope from Biden?
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0542par0291	There's an early election.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0543par0292	There are no elections in the country. You know that even if there is a choice, you will not be given power. Or do you expect a coup?
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0544par0293	Mr. Secretary, the center of the coup is here.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0543par0294	Where will you take over, who will you take over, how will you take over? I mean, I'll take over the second half, I'll take over from you. What does that mean? Oh, if you want to come work with us in our Ministry, if you want to help, the door is open; we'll come to your party and work with you in any foreign policy.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0545par0296	We said your last budget, no offense, your last budget.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0546par0297	Let's say hello, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0543par0298	Mr. President, perhaps I can answer the others in the QA.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0545par0299	You'll go in the first election.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0543par0300	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I really...
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0547par0301	What about the corrupt ambassador?
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0543par0302	...external policy requires a busy shift, and we, our friends and I, are working hard together. Like our MPs, in parliamentary diplomacy, our diplomats work very hard in every field and touch people. Like our diplomat and the UN General Assembly, we also have friends at important points, such as the UNESCO General Conference, who are reporting on the future of NATO today. I thank all my friends in your presence. And I thank you very much, very much, for your support in parliamentary diplomacy and our budget.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0548par0304	Mr. Altay...
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0549par0305	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary has accused our party of not providing the necessary support for Turkey's policies on national issues, sir, I demand your word.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0548par0306	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0549par0310	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I can't answer to our Minister of Agriculture and our Minister of Sports. When I say "answer," there are a few opposing issues, but I will not answer them.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0550par0312	You're a good man, act accordingly.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0551par0313	Engin President, you're a nationalist in foreign policy...
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0549par0314	Mr. Secretary of State, first, I have a little regret. In this Parliament, I think, in one day, the Republican People's Party is considered to be about 90, which is the same as the law... in which you can't meet 20 articles in two weeks, in one day or two days, I think you're wronging a Republican People's Party, which has passed the 97 international treaty text as law.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0552par0316	I'm glad you're here, Mr. Engin!
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0549par0317	Because we, on every occasion, consider the country's position in international matters to protect, protect, and stand by the interests of the nation as our foundation's motive, Mr. Secretary. [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] Now, alone, to this habit of AK PARTY... friends, speak properly, but do not harass. Harassment is despicable, speak properly. [[Applause from CHP rows, noise from AK PARTY rows]] Now, when you're stuck, you're holding on to this, or you're hugging the headscarf... here, brothers, here, the headscarf.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0553par0322	What's that got to do with anything?
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0549par0323	What's the big deal? You either cling to religion or embrace the fight against terrorism. Sometimes I make you look like this, correct me if I'm wrong...
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0554par0324	You're wrong.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0549par0325	I think it was the Battle of Siffin, and they had put Koran verses on their spears, and sometimes I think you're like them, so forgive me. [[Applause from CHP rows, noise from AK PARTY rows]] Now, I'm going to ask the Minister a clear question. I wonder why the Turkish Foreign Minister couldn't say anything about a decision against Turkey two hours ago. The sanctions have been signed.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0555par0329	He made a statement.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0549par0330	Did he say anything from here, brother?
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0555par0331	Bad ally...
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0549par0332	Now, I'll tell you what I think first. That's bad enough for this party. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, I'm going to ask for leniency.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0556par0335	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0549par0336	The sanctions have been signed, and as the Republican People's Party, we say to the government: Push them away with your hands. Say, "Get out of here! As long as you don't get fooled, in the meantime, don't be fooled. Don't be grateful, don't insult Turkey.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0557par0338	We don't. And don't go complaining.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0549par0339	And Turkey does not need the protection of the United States of America.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0558par0340	Is that what you're saying, or are you saying?
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0549par0341	Turkey does not need the support of Russia. Turkey does not need the European Union to adjust. Turkey does not need the accent of Qatar. Turkey is a big, powerful country. These people are a great nation. Biden, stop saying Biden. Did America bring you and America take you? Do you have a problem with yourself?
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0559par0343	What did Biden say? He said we should cooperate with the opposition.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0549par0344	Mr. President, why aren't you interfering?
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0560par0346	Congressmans, this is the Deputy Director of the Group, please...
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0549par0347	If America brought you back in 2002, believe me, America will take you. This is your shame, your effort to cover your sins. [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] I repeat, I'm asking you to make a proper statement, pick on me. What you do is harassment. Mr. Bulent, this budget will continue tomorrow; I'll see you tomorrow, I'll see you tomorrow.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0561par0351	Are you threatening me?
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0562par0352	Talk to those who like it.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0549par0353	Mr. President, I'm not getting out of here. I'll say what I have to say.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0563par0354	Finish what you're saying.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0549par0356	I'll show you where the harassment is so we don't have to get into this.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0563par0358	Mr. President, go ahead.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0549par0359	We have one saying to both America and Russia and the European Union: "Get out of the Middle East, and leave the Middle East people to their own destinies. "
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0563par0362	Let's complete it, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0549par0363	The Syrian swamp... in the Syrian crisis Mr. Erdogan has confessed that Obama deceived me. Now let me tell you something he didn't confess: Obama cheated, Trump distracted. Let's see what Biden does. If it's America... then it's no good to you from this America, you came down with the rope of America in Syria.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0564par0364	Tell that to your vice president!
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0549par0365	I'm asking the Minister: Mr. Minister, at Syria, we called a meeting first, then we went down to the field. How do you get on the field like that? 36 of our soldiers were killed in one night.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0565par0366	We've given you your answer!
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0549par0367	You went to the foot of Russia, which is a Dahli. What kind of territory is that?
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0565par0368	We've given you your answer!
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0549par0369	I'm asking, where are our vantage points, where are they? I'm asking the minister a sincere question: is our observation points where they were established, or not? How far back did we pull? Let him answer.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0566par0370	Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0549par0371	My last question is... let's all use the rights and interests of Turkey together. And the government... I like the Minister, I don't have anything personally.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0566par0373	Please, Mr. Lawmakers...
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0549par0374	That's what I'm saying to get the government behind this entire House, not the AK PARTY Group.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0566par0376	Thank you, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0549par0377	But I can't get off without saying, Mr. President, I've been very harassed...
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0566par0379	Well, complete it, sir.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0549par0380	Who controls the field in the east of Fırat? Minister, please, who controls the field east of Fırat? This is what I see: the United States of America and the PYD judge or YPG to the east of Fırat. Mr. Erdogan tells them something, pi, ci. His English is very good; I don't know it! Dear friends, who controls the field in the west of Fırat? Russia and Syria control the central government. America and Russia are running wild, my soldier is a martyr, brother! Sir, martyrs don't die. Of course they don't die. We believe they're alive. May God grant us mercy. But it seems to me that in one night, 36 Mehmets were martyrs, their blood was spilled, their fire fell on the stoves. If you're doing this as a political tool, I think shame is enough for you. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0566par0383	Thank you, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0567par0384	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0568par0385	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0566par0386	Mr. Secretary...
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0569par0387	The president must respond to us collectively, respond collectively.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0568par0388	Mr. President, let's talk, Mr. Secretary will answer all of them.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0566par0389	Let's respond collectively, sir.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0570par0390	I didn't pick on the Minister.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0571par0391	Mr. Secretary can answer at the end of it all. Let's do that, let's do that, let's do it all.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0566par0392	Mr. Oluç, come in. Your Honor, I urge you to comply with the deadline.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0572par0394	I'm worth as much as Engin Altay.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0566par0395	No precedents, please. Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0572par0398	Mr. President, Mr. Deputys, I just heard from the Minister. It's not the first time we've heard it here; we've heard it before, in previous budgets, and in other sessions, we've heard it. Really, I'm a little surprised when I'm listening. Mr. Secretary, right now, there have been three fundamental issues of our criticisms against you under this House roof, so to date, other budgets and intermediaries. One: you killed Diplomasi, you brought forward military power. Thus, we lost the opportunity to resolve problems in the Middle East -- Syria, Iraq -- in the Mediterranean, in the Aegean, and elsewhere. You've brought forward military power and military operations, actions, that's wrong. We've told you that. Two: Turkey has become a country that has lost play in terms of its foreign policy. We said, "We've talked about it here, look at the transcripts; this is our second criticism." Our third criticism is that you do not maintain realistic foreign policy. Why did we say this: you don't maintain a realistic foreign policy. Look, Turkey is a member of NATO based on what you just said here. It's weird that a NATO member can't go into a military show with his other neighbors. Two, Turkey, member of the Council of Europe. Turkey has applied for membership in the European Union, continues its talks, opens and closes chapters, and Turkey is a member of the Council of Europe. So you can't succeed in a foreign policy that puts aside all these alliances, fights with the Western alliance, ignores their rules, rules that we've established together, it's wrong. And your whole strategy has collapsed, your entire foreign policy has collapsed; we're facing a major fiasco. We were right, Mr. Secretary, in all our criticisms. That's the first one, I'll tell you that.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0573par0404	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0572par0405	Thank you, Mr. President. Second, I mean, we're not upset about being right, we're not happy about it. Why aren't we so happy? So Turkey, I think, has been facing sanctions for many, many years, from the 1980 coup to today -- the last 40 years -- for the first time, because of fighting with all Western allies, for the first time. Mr. Secretary, you're not listening, but I'm saying something important.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0574par0408	I'm listening, I'm listening.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0572par0409	For the first time, Turkey has faced sanctions in conflict with the United States, the European Union countries and the Council of Europe. There is a monitoring process in the Council of Europe; now, for the first time, such a situation... So your precious policy of solitude, your strategy is bankrupt, that's what it is. I mean, unfortunately, we're not happy about this because we're all living in this country together. Now, so, once again, as we've been saying in the past, we've been saying: hear our realistic foreign policy proposals and our foreign policy proposals that weigh heavily on negotiating diplomacy to eliminate the mistakes that have been done today, take them seriously, talk to them. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm picking it up, sir.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0575par0413	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0572par0414	This applies not only to European relations but also to relations with the Middle East, but also to relations with the Eastern Mediterranean and the Aegean. Look, regarding the Kurdish people in Syria, don't turn your back on those who extend their hand to the Kurdish people in Iraq, and let's stress that once again. And I'll say one last thing: yes, it's good, it's good, it's good, it's the right policy to fix relations with the West, but in order to fix relations with the West, you need the rule of law, democracy, respect rights and freedoms, international democratic contracts, the agreements that Turkey has signed. Without democracy, law, justice, you can't fix relations with the West, let's stress that once again. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0576par0418	Mr. Turkkan...
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0577par0420	Mr. Secretary, Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, I would like to stress here that the Minister is having a very unfortunate conversation. [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] Mr. Secretary, our claim is that Turkey will be running for 2021 years. Because Turkey can't carry you anymore, that's the problem. [[A round of applause from the good PARTY and CHP rows]] Look, guys, 342,000 students are in debt right now, moaning, unable to pay; you've put up foreclosures in the homes of 217,000 students. You're selling potatoes and onions at a tanning sale! You're talking about agricultural policy, not agricultural policy! Can this country carry you? Mr. Secretary, you've come to the stand, you haven't said a word about the Uygur Turks. You're surrounded by fear of China, the Chinese are leading you, and you can't say a word to the Uygur Turks under the influence of your little partner, the Vatan Party. [[A round of applause from the good PARTY and CHP rows]] Mr. Secretary, American sanctions have been announced, and we've been crying. We stand tall as one nation, one state, Parliament, we stand by your side, and you can't say a word. Mr. Secretary, let's move on to the coup. Mr. Secretary, you are the Minister of a party, first September 12th, then February 28th coup. You need to think twice about the coup. [[Applause from the good party and CHP rows, noise from the AK PARTY ranks]] Our qiblah was neither Trump nor Biden. We have only one qiblah, and it is the Turkish nation. I wish you a good evening.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0578par0434	Are you talking or are you talking?
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0579par0435	Again, someone must have whispered the election.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0580par0436	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State has made a statement saying the name of our Deputy Feleknas Uca as well as the name of our Mr. Hishyar Özsoy, and we'd like to speak with you.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0581par0437	I'll make four friends from their place a promise to them.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0580par0438	But there's teasing.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0581par0439	Mr. Ozsoy, please speak at your place.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0580par0440	And then there's the Uca.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0581par0441	Here you go, Mr. Ozoy.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0582par0444	Thank you, Mr. President. I listened to the Minister. Mr. Secretary has also been agitated by many criticisms, and I thank him; not many ministers do, but come and curse here. I thank you, from that point of view, from the bottom of my heart. Now, my argument is a very simple argument -- not just the diplomacy of Turkey; look, I underlined it, I said: there's a militantization in almost all areas of economics, finance, law, sports. I mean, we use a military language when we talk about health problems; we go to the game, as if two teams aren't competing, they're fighting, they're fighting. As Turkey has lost its significant economic, financial, cultural, ideological hegemony in the past three or five years, Turkey has benefited from NATO's Southeast... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm just finishing up.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0583par0449	Thank you, Mr. Ozoy.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0582par0450	NATO's...
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0583par0451	Mr. Uca...
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0584par0452	He didn't complete it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0585par0453	He didn't complete it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0583par0454	Thank you, Mr. Ozoy.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0584par0455	But there's teasing, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0586par0456	For a minute, Mr. President, you've given it to me according to 60.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0583par0457	Here you go, Mr. Uca.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0587par0459	Mr. President, please don't tell me what happened to the people of Ezidi, because I am a son of that people, and on 3 August 2014, during the attack on Şengal. The longing is one example of them, and there are hundreds more. Hundreds of people were hungry and thirsty after the DAİSK attack, so where were you? No one has ever protected the Crushers, and right now the Crushers want to defend themselves, which is a fundamental right. I've been to the Shengal many times. Only by meeting with Nadya Murad....do you think the oppressed are entitled to the rights of...
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0583par0461	Thank you, Mr. Uca. Mr. Quickie...
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0588par0463	According to 69...
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0583par0464	Your position, please.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0588par0465	According to 69...
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0583par0466	We treated friends the same way. Mr. Quickie, please...
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0589par0468	Mr. Quickie, according to 60...
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0583par0469	Let's hear from a Riotist, Mr. President. EnGIN ALTAY (Istanbul) - Mr. President, there is a heavy, open taunt for Mr. Riotist. You've given the answer and you've used your time very generously. - I didn't use a word for the Divinity. Mr. Quickie, if you'd be so kind as to... One minute from your position, sir.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0590par0476	Mr. Minister, even if we were retired as a former diplomat and as a member of the State Department, we always consider you our Minister, Mr. Minister. You've told me three times how much your conversation is, even with Ahmet Erozan, you've confused my name. See, from November 11th, you discussed 15 days of observation missions with Russia, finally signed on December 1st. Regarding the details of this agreement, the Ministry of Defence said that the number of soldiers will be kept or which tasks he will take on is classified, cannot be explained for him. You're doing demagogue, since there's no such explanation, we're making these statements here. I expected you to say so. I'd expect you to actually explain those numbers, those numbers, those numbers, those soldiers, and that quality of duty here; you didn't explain it. Second, how can you, as an ambassador for three years in Baku, speak to me with the mouth of Armenia? I don't speak with Armenia's mouth, nor do I accept such injustice, nor do I describe you.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0591par0480	Can you go to Azerbaijan now? You can't go to Azerbaijan right now. He can't go, he can't go to Azerbaijan right now.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0592par0481	Hakan, you're a disgrace, you're the Commissioner!
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0591par0482	I went to Azerbaijan, and that's all people talk about. And he's an ambassador, so make an apology, it's a virtue.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0593par0483	Mr. Emre.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0594par0485	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, my dear friends, I'd like to say a few words. First of all, in the speech of the Minister... [[Interference between EC PARTY and CHP rows]] Guys, I'm running out of time. Would you please shut up? Mr. President, can we start over? Mr. President, I can't start my speech. Can we start over, please?
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0595par0490	Let's start over. Here you go, Mr. Emre.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0594par0491	Thank you. Dear friends, in his speech, the Minister of Foreign Affairs has accused the opposition party, the GOOD PARTY, and generally the opposition, seeking foreign support, and expecting a coup next year. My dear friends, look, give it up; we live in a common land, we have problems, but we are people of the same country, don't do this, Mr. Secretary. But I want to remind you that you are a government that sends delegations to the United States as the EC PARTI, who already sends the special advisor of Mr. President to the United States, who talks with lobbying companies there, where the contents of these talks leak to the press, how the money is being talked about, trying to get in the way of the new American administration. We all know that.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0596par0494	You are the ones who received instructions from Biden!
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0594par0495	Wasn't Mr. President welcomed by President Bush's Oval Office in the United States when he wasn't Prime Minister yet? What are you telling us? Look, I'm going to give you a reference: in January 2004, there's an article by Mr. Erdoğan in the Wall Street Journal entitled "Stille The Best of Friends." So this is the March 1st thesis and what happened after...
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0597par0499	Mr. Gürer...
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0598par0501	Mr. Minister, you said, Omer Fethi, we're the 3rd in the world in exports in lemon. Mr. Secretary, he listened to me, but you didn't understand. I said we're tangerines, oranges, apricots, nut exporters, but we're addicted to wheat, barley, soy, rice, herbal raw oil, bacteria. Tell me how much you imported in ten months, not lemon, rice, lentils, herbal raw oil, wheat. Explain to me how much wheat and lentils you bought from the farmer as an Earth crop office. Mr. Secretary, in 2002, when the farmer sold a ton of wheat, he bought 33 grams of gold, and this year he bought 1 ton of wheat, and he received 3 grams of gold. That's a shame enough for you. You kicked the farmer's ass, the farmer's ass. You can't cover up the truth by squeezing lemons.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0597par0503	Mr. Secretary...
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0599par0505	Mr. President, thank you very much. First, of course, in their talks, the MPs, the group representatives, said their opinion, they criticised us, and rightly -- some of them were heavy -- we have to respond naturally, and no one has been insulted. We thank Mr. Engin Altay for his support for U.S. sanctions. So we immediately made our statement to the Ministry -- as you said -- and we pushed it backwards. So this is a national issue, and we're all going to show this upright position, this honorable posture. Thank you very much. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Our other MPs also had real views. We're not a country that can't make a game, Mr. Oluç, we're building a game, and when it comes to it -- I just told you -- we're ruining the games. Please do not underestimate Turkish foreign policy and Turkey; we are strong in the field and at the table. Lütfü Abi, it's not an unfortunate conversation that I'm speaking to, so I'm not saying that we're members of the Commission before -- we're not saying that we're members -- we love our two friends -- sometimes they talk too hard, but I have to give them those answers.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0600par0511	Mr. Secretary, of course we'll listen to your answer, we'll be glad to hear it, but are you in favor of the coup? The accusation is a serious accusation.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0599par0512	So it's not unfortunate when you answer, please. Now, about the Uygur Turks today, I mean, I didn't go into any of our other relatives, but from China to the Balkans, I said, "All of our kin." By the way, I went out in the middle, talked to the Chinese Foreign Minister, and in that conversation, I gave him our expectations of the Uygur Turks. In addition, you did not participate in the declarations signed by 39 countries in New York. But we did not participate in the declaration -- 45 countries supported China in front of it -- because we are the descendants of the Uyghurs. We have made clear our criticisms, our opinions, our expectations, without politicalisation, and we ask you to see this as well. We will defend the rights of the Uygur Turks in every environment, and together we will continue to defend them.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0601par0515	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0599par0516	Mr. Uca, we know your suffering because of the DAEŞ, we haven't lived like you, but we do. In the face of these sufferings, we have opened the door to the oppressed, the Keldanis, the Armenians, all the Kurds, the Turks, the Arabs, the Sunnis, the Shiites, who fled from the PKK. You've really suffered a lot, but now I'm saying something else. We cleaned and cleaned both in Iraq and Syria; only Turkey killed 4,000 DAESS terrorists. [[Applause from the AK PARTY and MHP rows]] But now that the PKK has persecuted the oppressed, Mr. Uca, that's what I'm saying. Nadya Murad also said that at the NATO meeting, in the United States, she told everyone, and she came to me.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0602par0520	Mr. Secretary, there is a camp in Istanbul. The DAEŞ people have neighborhoods in Istanbul, Ankara, over there. We're almost living next door to the apartment.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0603par0521	Report it, then, if you have any information. Tell me where the DAESS is. If you know, there's intel.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0604par0522	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0605par0523	Now, again, one of my favorite members -- still a member -- said Mr. Ünal. Mr. Ünal, you said it on TV. Armenia tells us that Turkey has sent terrorists. And I reproached you for saying that. France used it, the Westerners used it, and Armenia used it. I didn't expect it from you, so I reproached it. I don't do demagogue. Seriously, what's the deal with the details? Details will be determined by host Azerbaijan.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0606par0525	Mr. Secretary, don't talk like trolls. It's a shame! Are you trolls?
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0605par0526	Where the center will be, how many people will he need; it'll be obvious in the three-way, but our deal is not confidential. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0607par0528	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0608par0529	You're trolling, trolling!
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0609par0530	Don't shout! It's a shame what you're doing! You put your mask down and yell, shame on you!
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0608par0531	You wear out Mr. Ünal, but you shame him.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0610par0532	Here you go, Mr. Pakdemirli.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0611par0534	This matter of imports may not be fully understood in my speech, but I'll repeat it. So what we say is that Turkey should definitely take more of the wealth of the region and the world, of course, increase its production, but it should also market Kazakhstan's wheat as well as Ukraine's sunflowers, process it in industrial plants, bring wheat, process it and sell it to the world, as in other examples in the Dutch example. Friends, during the history of the Republic, Turkey has been imported, so don't demagogue.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0612par0537	What about the nuts? Don't demagogue!
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0611par0538	Turkey has increased its production throughout the history of the republic, and Turkey has given more net exports throughout the history of the republic. Let's not talk about this anymore. So Turkey will increase production, sell wheat in its region and barley in everything. I had a pleasure, but unfortunately... at least it didn't come from the CHP Group, thank you, it came from the CHP Group, from another group, about the import of hay.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0613par0540	I forgot.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0611par0541	Remember? At least we have this satisfaction: I don't know why you don't see 84,000 tons of export last year. Do you not see that for a purpose?
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0614par0543	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0615par0544	$17 million in exports, $20 million in imports, TIC data. Mr. Secretary, we don't speak by heart, here, your data.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0614par0545	Mr. Turan...
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0616par0547	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all again. We've had three important Ministry interviews today. I, Mr. Ministers, would like to thank the representatives of all parties, especially the Deputy Directors of the Group. At this time of night, we have come at this hour, perhaps less than he deserves, but Mr. Secretary has already responded to important foreign criticism. Mr. President, but I can't go past the pre-election allegations. This nation has given us authority until 2023. I would like to point out that we are determined to use our authority to the end, to make the elections at the time appointed by the Constitution. Other than that, I think it's unfair to express the AK PARTY as the result of an extraordinary period of September 12th or February 28th. The AK PARTI is a form of the whole independent understanding of Turkey from Sultan Alparslan, Sultan Fatih, Gazi Mustafa Kemal, who came to this day from Gazi Mustafa Kemal, a form of the spirit of Kuvaimilliya.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0617par0553	Thank you, Mr. Turan.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0616par0554	One minute, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0617par0555	Here you go, Mr. Turan.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0616par0556	So it's not an unfair, unwarranted synthest of accusations. I salute you all again, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0617par0559	Thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0618par0560	Mr. President, for the record, you don't have to open it. In this country, the initiative for whether or not the election will be early is not in the AK PARTY, but in the People's State Garden. I'll buy it.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0619par0562	We're not responding to what Mr. Engin Bey said, Mr. President. It's late, he's busy, Mr. President, I know that.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0620par0563	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0621par0564	Mr. Beştaş...
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0620par0566	Thank you. To be honest, I listened to the Minister. I'd like to remind you that I haven't heard of the Shengal attack, the ISIS genocide, even if he has. He hasn't said genocide yet, you've only heard suffering. He said to Mr. Uca. After the 73rd genocide, ISIS led the people of Ezidi into a new genocide. DAIH kidnapped 7,000 women with their children, sold them in slave markets. There were dozens of books written on it, and some of the families of the women who were kidnapped, sold in the slave markets, had to go and buy their wives, their daughters, their sisters -- and unfortunately, some of these women, I said in my speech, I said some of them, I say two things, and I say somut -- were found in a student dorm in Kırşehir, the ISIS people brought them there.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0621par0569	Complete, Mr. Beştaş.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0620par0570	A woman, a Z. A woman named Kا has been captured in Ankara. You guys are still making fun of our minds. So we're talking about killing thousands of people over Nadya Murad, taking 7,000 women to slave markets; you're saying, I get it. What kind of foreign policy is that? [[Applause from HDP rows]] We say that in the 21st century, a people had been subjected to the 74th genocide, and the state of the Republic of Turkey did not condemn it internationally, and did not stand up to it. You're saying we helped. You helped them, and you took those children who came to your border, and most of them went to Europe. I really find your words unfortunate about this, that you should at least apologize -- it hurts me for those women -- so if you don't condemn it, I'd like to say that you owe the people of Ezidi an apology.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0621par0573	Thank you, Mr. Beştaş.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0622par0574	Ms. Meral, how are you bringing this up? Don't push it so hard!
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0621par0575	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0623par0576	We said we were sorry, so what do we say? We didn't do anything!
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0624par0577	He can't take it, so...
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0625par0578	How do you guys move into this? We've fought this hard.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0626par0581	Ladies and gentlemen, if you'll excuse me, I'd like to say a few brief words about Mr. Uca: an independent, spiritual figure of political identity, as well as a member of Ezidi's faith, just as there is a primity in the Alemi tradition, a sheik, a sheik in the cult, or a saint, a saint in the Christian religion, and a spiritual identity in the community. So he congratulated them today with his identity and his two identities in Kurdish language, which they could understand, the holiday of his people. With your permission, I congratulate you on the festival of the Ezidi community. [[Applause from CHP and HDP rows]] 1) Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry 2021 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) Forest General Directorate 2021 Central Management Budget 2) Forest General Directorate 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) State Water Affairs General Directorate 2021 Central Management Budget 2) State Water Affairs General Directorate 2019 Central Management Final Account M) METEOROLOGY GENIORITY [[Continue]] 1) The General Directorate of Meteorology 2021 Central Management Budget 2) The General Directorate of Meteorology 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkey's Water Institute Central Management Budget for 2021 2) Turkey's Water Institute Final Account for Central Management 2019 1) The Ministry of Youth and Sports 2021 Central Management Budget 2) Youth and Sports Ministry Final Account for Central Management in 2019 1) State Department Central Management Budget for 2021 2) The State Department Final Account for Central Management in 2019 1) The Central Management Budget of 2021, President of the European Union 2) Central Management Final Account for the President of the European Union 2019 ÜRK AKRUDITASYON BUILDING [[Continue]] 1) Turkish Accreditation Agency Central Management Budget for 2021 2) Turkish Accreditation Institution 2019 Central Management Final Account Now, Mr. Gültekin is asking for a word against you. Here you go, Mr. Nicesal.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0627par0619	Dear President, highly valued lawmakers and ministers whose budgets have been discussed, first of all, I salute you all. In fact, as you know, we're in the middle of a reform campaign. Earlier, at the beginning of the budget, we learned that our President of the Turkish Grand National Assembly had made a commitment to democracy as a concept of values, in terms of pluralism, but that he had been gracious in a blessing democracy. On this occasion, I would like to make my assessments today under the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, the Ministry of Youth and Sports and the State Department. Dear lawmakers, we have to evaluate not only the budget of 2021, but also the execution of a government that has carried out an 18-year-old process of development, three-year intervals, with medium-term programmes, not just in the final account of 2019, as the AKP spokesman have insisted. From this point of view, budgets today aim to activate all elements of Turkey's national power at the maximum point. It is a financial and political text that aims not only to use its resources but also its potential to a maximum extent. When we look at it from these angles, unfortunately, I consider this budget to be a sign of the extinction of power, the lack of words to say, and on the other hand, the consumption of Turkey. We're flying, we're running away from the rhetoric, and I'm wondering when we've come to a bitter prescription. At the point where we've come today, along with the reforms, the Minister's change, unfortunately, we should have been able to put people in the back of the Republic of Turkey's union, who were full of food, their backs, their foreheads, their heads, their heads. Today, however, we live in Turkey, where more than 10 million unemployed people have reached 30 per cent unemployment; 13.2 million pensioners live on a minimum wage of almost 7.8 million. Among the pensioners, we face a portrait of Turkey, where 47 per cent of it has to work. When we look at this budget, we'll see what these segments are... It's as if he fell side by side with the rich and the poor in the mosque. Poor citizen's got a problem, he's got a problem. When he got a little loud in prayer, the rich one took the highest note out of his pocket for that day -- whatever it was -- and gave it to him and asked him to leave the lines alone. And you, especially our farming people, are putting it as a precaution to shut down the businesses of millions of our people in this pandemic environment, but, as a country that has even exhausted its backup accents, we are unable to even meet their basic inputs in this process. There are a number of donations that Mr. President has announced today. Our hearts desire that we may be with our people at such a time as our nation needs its state. Dear lawmakers, unfortunately, Turkey has left behind many black holes, along with its politics. Today we would have wanted to express it from time to time, on July 15th, and I have expressed it as a means of opposition to power, opposition to Turkey's interests, adopt an argument against Turkey internationally, but we also have to talk about the facts: we know the cost of a Syrian crisis that absorbs all of Turkey's energy and consumes its energy. We want that there is a price that Turkey has paid for choosing politics in a way that exceeds Turkey's power capacity, and at this point, we want our power to do an accounting.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0628par0624	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0627par0625	We're trying to break the game at the expense of martyrs in the Battle of the River Shield and Al Bab. However, I would also like to say that this place has turned into a black hole, and that Turkey's preferences have led to challenges against Turkey, unfortunately, as many of the dynamics that we've taken in international theory -- which we can express as the theory of attitude. On this occasion, if the Annan Plan had been adopted in 2004, 15 years later in the Eastern Mediterranean, I would also like to note that we will not be able to have any of the claims we have in Cyprus. I especially want to point out that Turkey's new developments in the world...
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0629par0629	Bow, please.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0627par0630	I'm completing it, Mr. President. At such a time as the rise of new regional power centers, we are sadly missing history. When new roles were being described to the government, we left twenty years of the window of opportunity that our demography had set in front of us. In such a climate, I know that there is a very short period of time in front of us in order for Turkey to become a country that is not only producing, but transferring prosperity, especially in the sense that history is the race of nations, including the education system. So on this budget, we had to ask ourselves the right questions and get the right answers. Since we can't ask the right questions, our little problems are growing, and our big problems are becoming chronic. I hope, despite all this negativity, this budget is a blessing. I hereby salute you all with my deepest respect.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0630par0634	Congressmans, the talks on the seventh round are complete. Now we're going to question-answer. Your Excessive...
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0631par0637	Thank you, Mr. President. Today, Turkey has a sense of foreign policy that can protect its rights and interests, praise be to God, both at the table and in the field. Turkey is now a well-known country, not in its immediate environment, but in every part of the world. With his help, Turkey is the most generous country in the world; it also showed it during the epidemic. From evac to relief, all work abroad is successfully coordinated by our State Department. No success is a coincidence; it is the result of our claim to have a say in global policy, saying that the world is greater than the five ▪ under the leadership of an effective foreign policy and Mr. President. Mr. Secretary of State, during the corona period...
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0632par0641	Mr. Özyrek...
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0633par0642	I'd like to ask our Minister of Youth and Sports: Our Sivasspor has been exposed to an informal position at the airport on his return from Tel Aviv, Israel, where he went to play the UEFA group game during the week. I condemn this attitude toward our Sivasspor, which has been held at the airport for about five hours, and I demand that the Israeli authorities be given the answer in the presence of your ministry. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0632par0644	Mr. Altaca Kayışoğlu...
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0634par0645	Mr. Minister of Agriculture, this is a photograph of Lake Iznik, which is several metres behind the pier, and I took this picture on September 30th, which is now much further back. Do you have a plan to save Lake Iznik? In Newşehir, the area across the airport is said to be a prison for mera status, which has previously been tried in Kestel. What kind of management does it take to build a prison in Mera? Will you allow it? Again, the scholarship farmers ask: Will you increase the support of olive oil and table olive grain? For the past two years, irrigation rates have been increasing, and the surface irrigation charges are being paid. The farmer wants the irrigation fees reduced, will you lower them?
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0635par0648	Mr. Gunpowder...
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0636par0649	Mr. Minister of Agriculture, the farmer is looking forward to it. In recent days, there has been no development in parliament in the bag of law about the farmer's debt and loan configuration, and there has been no development in the debt configuration at today's Cabinet meeting. What do you think about that? How do you feel about the appointment of the minister of agriculture in the parliamentary system to those groups of professions he's promised to? Will you officially share the contents of the water agreement signed with Qatar with the public? Jacob Konan, Kahramanmarash...
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0637par0654	Mr. Girgin...
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0638par0655	Thank you, Mayor. One of the most valuable parts of the basement is to be made into 100 million liras worth of linoleum in Karkı Bay. In 2012, the land separated as a social, cultural and religious area was later asked to be converted into a religious culture and information facility at the request of the Dianet. The plan, which has been discussed twice at the basement municipality, has been rejected because it does not have local architecture and environmental construction features. This time, the Ministry of Environment and Urbanity has issued a resen construction license. The appeal process continues, and is the ash, which was not built on time when the license was issued irregularly, proportional to the needs of our citizens in the region? Does he have an emergency during the economic crisis and pandemic period?
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0637par0657	Mr. Montenegro...
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0639par0658	My question is to our Minister of Agriculture. Iğdır is ranked fourth in Turkey's production of table apricots. It is important to have an apricot research institute in our province in terms of protecting the gene source of our apricot, increasing efficiency and promoting it to the world. In addition, our province is ranked in the 9th place in our country with 1.3 million small animals, and is ranked third in the Eastern Anatolian region. In this context, the branch of the Iğdır Facility for Meat and Milk is considered to be opened. In addition, I would like to invite our Minister of Agriculture and Forest to Iğdir, in order to see the potential of Iğdır Plains of Iğdır for agriculture and livestock. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0640par0661	Dear Yým...
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0641par0662	Thank you, Mr. President. I speak to all the ministers: Our shop closed down because of the pandemic is crying blood. We'll see that six months of guarantee payment to the contracting gang, which is called the five-alarm gang, which sticks to our treasure, is stopped, and our entire closed-down tradesman will have a budget of $2,000 for six months. I'm asking the Minister of Agriculture and Forestry: when are you going to make sure all the land is planted, Mr. Secretary, by providing enough support for the crop, not the land? When are you going to give the farmer the U.S.V.-free diesel in the farming equipment he used to harvest?
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0642par0666	Mr. Driver...
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0643par0667	My question is to Mr. Minister of Agriculture and Forestry. DEDAS's power cuts and billing practices, particularly Urbana, have made the region's people and its farmers suffer a division; the public cannot continue to live socially, and the Urban farmer can't produce because he has been denied support. DEDAS conducts whatever practice he wants with law enforcement behind his back. Mr. Secretary, we've been talking about this problem over and over again. WHEN will you see what DEDAS did to the people and to the farmer and the victim? Will you take a step to the solution point? Thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0642par0669	Mr. Osmanakaoğlu...
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0644par0670	Thank you, Mr. President. I ask God's mercy for our citizens who have died in the floods caused by heavy rains in Menderes district of Izmir province. I wish you well, citizens of Izmir who are affected by the flood. Mr. Foreign Minister, it is very fortunate that the rights of the Turkish nation are being defended in every corner of the world. I'd like to thank every single diplomat, every employee of our Turkish State Department, and all of you for breaking the traps in a way that amazes him. I wish our Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Youth and Sports have a good budget.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0645par0674	Mr. Yasar...
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0646par0675	Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers, the fact that I mentioned the baby in my budget speech, Aylan, has disturbed CHP Deputy Director Engin Altay, who has accused me of not being honorable after my speech. Congressmans, politics can't be done through children, their suffering can't be competed. Should we ignore the pain of a child just because he's an immigrant? It's a purely racist and segregating mentality. Remember, they're children, then immigrants. Yeah, I can't forget the baby Aylan lying face down on the beach, and not all human beings can forget it, because it's the shame of humanity, the shame of all of us. Aylan baby, the symbol of this drama...
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0645par0678	Dear Virtue...
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0647par0679	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary of State, the scope of the new generation of free trade agreements is vast. The European Union has not updated its Customs Union Agreement with Turkey on political grounds. I know your efforts, and I thank you. What's the latest on this? Mr. Minister of Agriculture and Forestry, with months of burning forests in many countries around the world, loss of lives and goods is quickly and effectively interfering in our country. Will new technologies for forest fires be used in 2021, which ones? Do our heroic firefighters have a job description, a study of their rights? Mr. Minister of Sports, will your project continue in 2021? Thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0648par0684	Mr. Aycan...
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0649par0685	Mr. President, I'd like to ask Mr. Minister of Agriculture and Forestry that we can't water enough farmland and not every farmer can afford to water it. What kind of work do you do for every farmer to benefit and water the land enough? Although heromarash is rich in river water, only 30 per cent of agricultural land is watered. It's very important that the watering channels of the Guided and Adatepe Dams are finished. When can we use our irrigation ducts? Do you plan to increase the employment of agricultural engineers and veterinary physicians for increased agricultural efficiency, scientific agriculture, technical support and control? How many agricultural engineers will be taken in 2021?
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0650par0688	"Dear Nameful..."
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0651par0689	My question is to Mr. Minister of Youth and Sports. In our country, 5 million 759 thousand young people in the 15-29-year-old group have neither been able to study nor work. Our young unemployed number has risen to 2.5 million, and most important of all, young people have given up hope of finding work. When will you take a concrete step as a representative ministry of young people and feel that you are with young people? When will the good news come that hundreds of thousands of young people who can't pay their loans? When are you going to step up for young people who are notorious for wiping out millions of pounds of tax debt? Thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0652par0692	Mr. Sword...
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0653par0693	Thank you. In 18 years, the DSI invested a total of $4 billion 462 million in our Kahramanmarash. The dams, the ponds, the irrigation facilities, the drinking water, the flood protection facilities, the river reforms, the HESEs, and many of them have continued planning and projecting. The water our people need, our land is provided, our land is protected, the energy our country needs has been produced. Do those who deny the truth not see that We separate the heavens and the earth, and that We revive the water? Good luck with the budget.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0654par0697	Mr. Mountain...
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0655par0698	My question is to the Ministry of Youth and Sports. Do you have work to erase loan debts for young people who are close to 5 million? Will all students be granted scholarships? What kind of studies are being conducted in the country and especially in Kurdish provinces regarding rapidly increasing substance abuse? What kind of studies have been conducted in what province against substance abuse?
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0654par0700	Mr. Ministers, you have ten minutes. Our three Ministers will use it among themselves. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0656par0702	We've got 11.717 personnel involved in hiring. We're a Ministry of approximately 150,000 people. If you think he's got 30 years of civil service, he's got 5,000 officers a year, 5 grand a year, tops. We want it to come a little less because of efficiency, but in two and a half years, we've taken about 11,800 people -- about 2,500 people to the Ministry center and country, 6,090 to the OGM, 545 to the DSI, 100 to the Meterology General Directorate, 231 to the Metheorology Directorate, 231 to the TMO. We continue to study for promotion and change of title, and our OGM (OGM) is taking a rotation. The official content of the Qatar water deal is pure help, nothing else. There's no secret agenda or anything. A man who already knows the trade knows that it's not logical to take the water from here to there. There's no water going anywhere, we're just our knowledge and our manners, which is one of the world's largest investors today because in the West, these investments are over, these investments are over in America. As one of the best organizations in the world, we pass on our knowledge to them. That's all there is to it. To save Lake Iznik, we will transfer water from Bosporus. We don't have any information on the scholarship prison application. We're the first ones to start rooting for the olives. Hopefully, in later years, we'll have a lot more money. We don't make profit on irrigation fees. Because we don't aim for profit, prices change from irrigation troops to irrigation troops. I can tell you this about the Agricultural Credit Cooperatives, the follow-up loans and general farmers' debts: We are not opposed to the debt configuration as the Ministry. We also work with the relevant institutions as the Ministry and its source. But 806, 000 partners were given 7.7 billion credits in 2020, 1.4 per cent of executive monitoring, which is 0.3 per cent, or 3 per thousand, foreclosure. In 2021, we will increase both the number of drones related to the forest and increase the number of our planes and renew our arizers. If we can, we're thinking of at least trying out a vehicle where we can get into the field, get into the middle of the fire, like a red tank. Let's get back to the Maraş Guide and the Adatepe Dams later. There was something about TIGAM. Something came in. It's ruined. There's 59.3 million losses in 2017. There's 9.3 million in 2018. There's 20.8 billion in 2019. We expect 45 million in 2020. It's about the price of milk: yes, of course we want better for our milkman, but today the head of the Turkish Milk Makers' Central Union -- the paper cube -- relieved the producer of another 50 cents -- another newspaper clipping: Nazilli and Environment Agricultural Development Cooperate -- I don't know this friend, of course I know the President of the Milk Association, but this fellow said there's been as much increase as they expected. I mean, we'd like more, but from time to time, it's up to 1.30, so it's in the bait-milk ratio that everyone agrees to. Stockpile of the field crop office: it entered with four times more stock, despite the pandemic.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0657par0715	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0656par0716	We're prepared to go on for a year. We're working on TMO scenarios from three scenarios, worst-case scenarios. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] The last thing about burning areas...
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0657par0719	Mr. Secretary...
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0656par0720	Okay.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0658par0721	Mr. Secretary, you haven't answered the question about Dede.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0656par0722	We'll answer in writing.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0659par0723	Mr. Butcherson, come in.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0660par0724	Yes, dear MPs, thank you for the questions. About the treatment of Sivas MP, first of all, Sivasspor... all our clubs are our pride. As we celebrate all of our clubs that represent us abroad, which bring this kind of sweat, I congratulate Sivasspor. I've had a chance to watch a few of your struggles in place. God willing, I wish you many successes. Of course, we are closely monitoring the treatment they face with our Federation, our Foreign Ministry, our relevant embassies, our foreign diplomatic missions. I'd like to express that we are personally followers of this, as no Turkish athlete would be willing to allow any Turkish team to be treated wrongly in any way by the Turkish club. Our MP, Ms. Arzu Erdem, is one of the most important projects we care about. In that sense, thank you for bringing it up. I haven't had a chance to give you a lot of detailed information on the stand. Swimming, you know, is one of the basic disciplines, like athletics, like gymnastics. At this point, we have a plan to teach swimming to anyone who wants to learn how to swim, and we have a project. And in that sense, praise be to God, 2020, we've captured our target with pandemics, and hopefully we're working on a very surprising target for 2021. Because we have so many water sources, so many pools that we've built, and our water supply is very rich. Swimming is also a very useful sport, both internationally and in health at the performance point. We're going to strengthen this project with her husband, her young and her senior, hopefully in 2021, and I believe that in 81 districts of Turkey, we're going to work together with the Ministry of National Education, with our clubs, with our governorships, with our municipalities, we're going to raise swimmers, and we're going to take an important step on the road to Turkey, which is swimming in the future with health. I invite all of our deputies to share the same excitement at the point of our swim campaign.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0661par0727	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0660par0728	There's no time left?
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0661par0729	Our time is up.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0660par0730	Yeah, let me just say one thing about addiction. Look, addictions are one of our biggest challenges -- not just substance abuse, but digital addictions in every area, and all of our ministry's activities are actually a means of dealing with addiction, and in this sense, hopefully, in 2021, the labor units that I've just mentioned are very important to us. All institutions, organizations, volunteers, sports community, we're going to hold hands, and hopefully we're going to do a stronger job on addictions. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0662par0733	Mr. Sergeant, come in, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0663par0734	Thank you very much. Ms. Arzu, our free trade agreement on the United Kingdom has come to an end, and as a continuation of the Ankara Agreement, hopefully, we'll connect them with England in terms of the rights of our citizens. The Customs Union, you know, is trying to block the European Union with both sides, but with political opinions. Engin Altay had another question today. We've had a lot of questions and answers to the Engin brother today.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0664par0738	For the country, Mr. Secretary, for the country.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0663par0739	Why didn't you say don't go on the Turkish ship? We said very clearly, Mr. Engin. Our military attache in Rome immediately told us, and then our Ambassador in Brussels sent it again, and then they got to our Ministry as e-mails, e-mails. We were at the G20 Summit that day, with video conference, with our President. And then the information came to me, and when we told them that the flag-owning country couldn't be boarded without permission, and there was no such thing as four hours under international law or naval law, we already asked a formality, we don't have to ask that. I mean, we reported all this before we got on board. After we got on board, we gave him a note again, showed him our reaction, reminded him of what we just said. Then they said they'd panic and leave the ship. They said some soldiers were leaving in the morning due to weather conditions, so they left. So please tell the president here that we did what we had to do, so don't blame it on us. So let's just say it's wrong to get on this ship here. We actually told them that they couldn't get on board the ship under international law. Ms. Meral, we curse the DEAS. We didn't just curse, we fought the DEAS, we'll fight the foreign terrorists, the warriors, again. In the same way, we explained the persecution of our Ezidi brothers everywhere and supported the UN Human Rights Reporter's report. We said we killed over 4,000 terrorists. Once again, we are cursed and condemned, and from now on, we will continue our fight against DEASH. After the DEAŞ, we also condemn and condemn the PKK, who persecuted our brothers Ezidi. In the same way, we condemn the PKK that attacked the hepmerge in northern Iraq and our Kurdish brothers there, but we have warned very much that they will attack you. In Turkey, we curse both our citizens, especially our Kurdish brothers, and the PKK, who killed our soldiers, our police, and the DEASH, both of whom we curse. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0665par0742	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Hawk Tin, I'll give you my word on your position for a moment. Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0666par0747	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We are not surprised that CHP Deputy Group Chairman Engin Altay is seeking political recovery by twisting my words, since we have seen many others like them before. First, let me point out that social state understanding in Turkey is based on the arrival of the AK PARTY. There's never been a power as troubled by the poor as we are. After stressing this fact that you know very well but you don't want to accept, I'd like to tell you my true meaning. Your problem is lynching with distortions and slanders, and that's what you do best. You don't have a project, you don't have a word to say about the future of this country, you don't have a problem with serving the country. But to pursue cheap political materials like this, to use them on social media, and to make a run for it, you have no other politics. Everyone with a conscience knows that I have no malice. He who knows us knows us, and he who does not know us knows us. Our beloved nation is yours...
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0667par0751	Mr. Enginyurt...
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0668par0753	Mr. President, our Minister of Agriculture has spoken for more than thirty minutes, but has not said a word about Turkey's most important product in exporting nuts. Despite the fact that I asked him again about the nuts, just as 665,000 tons explain the recluse, would you stop buying on December 31st? Despite what I said, the Italian company is setting up a game about nuts on December 31st, setting up a scam; the price of nuts is starting to come back, falling back from the figure given by Mr. President. I ask the Minister of Agriculture again: Do you intend to extend the December 31st purchase of nuts to May or March? Do you plan on revising the nut prices at $24? Thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0669par0756	Mr. Nightingale, if you'll excuse me, Mr. Secretary, I need an answer. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0670par0759	As always, we're with our nut maker, as we are with all of our customers. As of now, I've received information that the Treasury and Finance Ministry is about to leave. So we took the initiative to extend it. We're still talking to relevant institutions, and we're taking steps to take these measures as soon as possible.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0671par0760	Thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0669par0761	Mr. Nightingale...
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0672par0763	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, we have completed our 8th day and seventh round of budget talks today. Today, the budgets of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, the Ministry of Youth and Sports and the State Department have been discussed. We, the National Movement Party, thank you again, for the service that each of our three ministers has done so far, to themselves, to their individuals, and to all the Ministry staff, to all our officials, to the central agencies, to the rural agencies, and to all the members of all the non-violent members of our organization in 250 countries. We repeat that we pray for them to succeed. I'd like to express our support for budgets as the National Movement Party, and I'd like to extend my regards. [[A round of applause from MHP and AK PARTY]] 1) Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry 2021 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) Forest General Directorate 2021 Central Management Budget 2) Forest General Directorate 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) State Water Affairs General Directorate 2021 Central Management Budget 2) State Water Affairs General Directorate 2019 Central Management Final Account M) METEOROLOGY GENIORITY [[Continue]] 1) The General Directorate of Meteorology 2021 Central Management Budget 2) The General Directorate of Meteorology 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkey's Water Institute Central Management Budget for 2021 2) Turkey's Water Institute Final Account for Central Management 2019 1) The Ministry of Youth and Sports 2021 Central Management Budget 2) Youth and Sports Ministry Final Account for Central Management in 2019 1) State Department Central Management Budget for 2021 2) The State Department Final Account for Central Management in 2019 1) The Central Management Budget of 2021, President of the European Union 2) Central Management Final Account for the President of the European Union 2019 ÜRK AKRUDITASYON BUILDING [[Continue]] 1) Turkish Accreditation Agency Central Management Budget for 2021 2) Turkish Accreditation Institution 2019 Central Management Final Account
tbmm-2020-12-14sit05spe0673par0801	Now, in order to get public administrations in the seventh round in order to transfer to their budgets and certain accounts, I will have them read separately to your votes. I submit to your votes that the Ministry of Agriculture and Forest should be transferred to the central management budget for 2021: Those who don't... Sustained. 1) Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry 2021 Central Management Budget General TOPLAM 51.518.086,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The budget for central management of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry in 2021 has been adopted. I submit to your votes that the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry's final account of central management in 2019 will be transferred to the chapters of the final account: Those who don't... Sustained. 2) The Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry 2019 Central Management Final Account Total grant 36,949,478,696,29 Budget Expenses 36,096,946,149,38 Canceled Fund 852,532,546,91 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 292,986,873,25 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry was adopted in 2019 as part of its final account of central management. I submit to your votes that the Director-General of the Forest shall be transferred to the central management budget of 2021, and those who agree... Those who don't... Sustained. 1) Forest General Directorate 2021 Central Management Budget GENEL TOPLAM 4,205,954,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 4,200.954,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The central management budget of the Forest General Directorate was adopted in 2021. I submit to your votes that the Central Executive Account of the Forest General Directorate in 2019 will be transferred into the chapters of its final account: Those who don't... Sustained. 2) Forest General Directorate 2019 Central Management Final Account Total allowance is 3,708,028,721,50 Budget Expenses 3,494,632,037,57 Canceled Fund 197,816,061,88 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 15.580.622.05 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. I'm reading the general sums of the ruler (B): Budget Profits estimated 3,300,410.000.00 Collection 3.410.170.681.06 Rets and returns 41,570,850,76 Net Collection 3.368.599.830,30 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Parts of the central management account of the Forest General Directorate were adopted in 2019. I submit to your votes that the State Department of Water should be transferred to the central management budget for 2021: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. THE GENTLE SURVOLUTION 1) State Water Affairs General Directorate 2021 Central Management Budget GENEL TOPLAM 18,730,949.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 18,725,949.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Central Management budget of 2021 of the State Water Affairs Directorate has been adopted. I submit to your votes that the Central Executive Account of the State Department of Water Affairs, in 2019, will be transferred to the chapters of its final account: Those who don't... Sustained. 2) State Water Affairs General Directorate 2019 Central Management Final Account Total allowance 11.817.416.619.84 Budget Expenses 11.689.956.677.37 Canceled Fund 120.694.979.83 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 65,416,498,43 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. I'm reading the general sums of the ruler (B): Budget revenue estimate 9.201.045,000.00 Collection 11.695.782.014,45 Ret and returns 17.462.259,54 Net Collection 11.678.319.754,91 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Parts of the Central Government's final account of 2019 were adopted by the State Water Affairs General Directorate. I submit to your votes that the General Directorate of Meteorology will be transferred to the central management budget of 2021: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 1) The General Directorate of Meteorology 2021 Central Management Budget General TOPLAM 541.018,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Central Management budget of 2021 was adopted by the General Directorate of Meteorology. I submit to your votes that the Central Executive Account of the General Directorate of Meteorology in 2019 will be transferred to the chapters of its final account: those who accept... those who don't... are accepted. 2) The General Directorate of Meteorology 2019 Central Management Final Account Total allowance 435,450,000.00 Budget Expenses 431,257,705,58 Canceled Fund 4.192.294.42 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Parts of the central management account of the General Directorate of Meteorology were adopted in 2019. I submit to your votes that the Turkish Water Institute be transferred to the central management budget for 2021: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 1) Turkey's Water Institute Central Management Budget for 2021 General TOPLAM 4.247,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 4.247,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The central management budget of the Turkish Water Institute was adopted for 2021. I submit to your votes that the central management account of the Turkish Water Institute in 2019 will be transferred to the chapters of its final account: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 2) Turkey's Water Institute Final Account for Central Management 2019 Total allowance 4.078,000.00 Budget Expenses 3,996,987,83 Canceled Fund 81,012,17 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. (B) I'm reading the general sums of the ruler: Budget Profits estimated 3.958,000.00 Collection 4.075.214.06 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Parts of the central management account of the Turkish Water Institute were adopted in 2019. I submit to your votes that the Ministry of Youth and Sports will be transferred to the central management budget of 2021: Those who don't... Sustained. 1) The Ministry of Youth and Sports 2021 Central Management Budget General TOPLAM 22.859.079.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The central management budget of the Ministry of Youth and Sports was adopted in 2021. I submit to your votes that the Department of Youth and Sports's Central Management account of 2019 will be transferred into the chapters of the final account: Those who don't... Sustained. 2) Youth and Sports Ministry Final Account for Central Management in 2019 Total allowance 20,736,781,995,00 Budget Expenses 20,600,574.826.05 The grant goes to 5.545,72 Canceled Fund 78,506,519,32 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 57,706,195,35 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. Parts of the Central Management account of the Ministry of Youth and Sports were adopted in 2019. I submit to your votes that the State Department be transferred to the central management budget of 2021: Those who don't... Sustained. 1) State Department Central Management Budget for 2021 GENEL TOPLAM 5,786,984,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The State Department's central management budget of 2021 has been adopted. I submit to your votes that the State Department's central management account of 2019 will be transferred to its final accounts: Those who don't... Sustained. 2) The State Department Final Account for Central Management in 2019 Total allowance 5.118.048.815.30 Budget Expenses 4,695,447,460,11 Canceled Grant 329,885,346,22 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 92,716,008,97 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. Parts of the State Department's central management account in 2019 have been adopted. I submit to your votes that the European Union's presidency be transferred to the central management budget for 2021: Those who don't... Sustained. 1) The Central Management Budget of 2021, President of the European Union General TOPLAM 787.432,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The central management budget of the European Union's presidency was approved for 2021 years. I submit to your votes that the European Union's Central Administration account of 2019 will be transferred to its final accounts: those who accept... Those who don't... Sustained. 2) Central Management Final Account for the President of the European Union 2019 Total allowance 972,728,000,00 Budget Expenses 958.812.030,53 The grant goes to 3.590.04 Canceled Fund 13.919.559.51 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. Parts of the central management account of the European Union's presidency were adopted in 2019. I submit to your votes that the Turkish Accreditation Agency be transferred to the central management budget of 2021: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 1) Turkish Accreditation Agency Central Management Budget for 2021 General TOPLAM 42.301.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 59.995,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The central management budget of the Turkish Accreditation Agency was adopted in 2021. I submit to your votes that the central management account of the Turkish Accreditation Agency in 2019 will be transferred to the chapters of its final account: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 2) Turkish Accreditation Institution 2019 Central Management Final Account Total allowance 46,682.600.00 Budget Expenses 36,056,391,43 Cancelled Fund 10.626.208,57 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. (B) I'm reading the general sums of the ruler: Budget Profits estimated 44,851,000,00 Collection 52.631.990.77 Ret and Returns 3.390.443,26 Net Collection 49.241.547.51 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Parts of the Turkish Accreditation Agency's final account of central management was adopted in 2019. The budgets and precise accounts of public administrations in the seventh round were thus approved. I wish them well. Congressmans, the seventh round of talks is complete. According to the programme, it is 11 p.m. Tuesday (December 15th 2020) to discuss the provisions of the 2021-Year Centre Management Budget Law Proposal, respectively, with budget and precise accounts of public administrations. I'm closing the merger to meet at 00.
