tbmm-2020-04-07sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 78th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Dear lawmakers, like all over the world, we're trying to deal with an invisible enemy in our country who has caused many deaths. This enemy, called the corona virus, distinguishes no one, and everyone who does not pay attention is under threat. In particular, under the statements made by the World Health Organization and the Science Board in our country, it has now become mandatory to wear masks in closed places, markets, buses, and that's the truth. We, as lawmakers working indoors at the Turkish Grand National Assembly, are the ones who face this threat in the face of it. The health of our MPs is important. Because of the work our MPs have done, we are in the process of maintaining their health and wearing masks, especially by maintaining social distance. Therefore, as our Parliamentary President, we will continue our next work by wearing masks, and especially, we will be careful to maintain social distance. The work our MPs and the Turkish Grand National Assembly will do by wearing masks and maintaining social distance will also be important to our society. We are the people who should be an example to society, and we will continue our work by increasing our efforts more carefully, by increasing our measures, knowing that far beyond reason, anyone can be infected, but by taking precautions. In that sense, I would like to ask that our lawmakers not come to the General Assembly with no exceptions, no masks on, and I would like to ask again and again to make sure that social distance is maintained. We have masks on all our desks, masks on the doorways, disinfectant drugs on our desks. We'll take care of all of this and, of course, all of our fellow lawmakers and all of our citizens, and hopefully, we'll take care of an elaborate process to get out of this danger as soon as possible. I'd like to thank all my fellow members for their attention and care. Of course, by the way, I remind you again of the importance of the following press members and everyone wearing masks, my dear friends. Everyone in the hall is obliged to wear masks, so please let our friends do so by warning, including the members of the press, my dear friends. [[x]] My dear friends, today is Berat Kandili. Because of Berat Kandili, I want to say that I am celebrating the Islamic world and the Berat Kandili of all our citizens. We begin our work by wishing you all a productive and prosperous week. [[Applause]] Dear friends, before I go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first out-of-date statement belongs to Mr. Ridvan Turan, our MP, who asked for the negative effects of the Covid-19 outbreak of the coronavirus to the agricultural sector. Mr. Turan, your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit01spe0002par0018	Mr. President, it's a matter of social distance. Are we going to follow the mask rule on the stand?
tbmm-2020-04-07sit01spe0001par0019	Take a look, I think the conversations are clear. I mean, short talks may not be necessary, but whatever you need.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit01spe0002par0020	Friends, it's a point that fits social distance, so I intend to speak up in general if there's no objection.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit01spe0001par0022	I think we should pay attention to the five minutes of conversation, Mr. Ridvan, and maybe our friends can take it out in a longer conversation.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit01spe0002par0023	Okay, fine.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit01spe0001par0024	Because since we're going to send a specific message to society today, let's make sure that our friends take care of it. Here you go, Mr. Turan.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit01spe0002par0029	Dear friends, I salute you with respect and love. And I salute the people who are watching us on the screen with my sincerest feelings. The pandemic caused by the Coronavirus shows a very serious effect all over the world, unfortunately, the deaths are sequenced one after another. Of course, when it comes to this kind of situation, human health is a fundamental issue, as important as that, and another issue that affects it is our food problem, our food problem, our agriculture problem. The plague caused millions of people to die in the 1300s, but it was not only the plague bacteria that killed them, it was also the famine caused by the plague. Millions of people died from famine and hunger along with the plague.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit01spe0003par0033	Quiet, dear friends, please.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit01spe0002par0034	Dear friends, when we look at the matter from this perspective, we see once again how important food sovereignty, food safety, and food security are today when we face such a pandemic. But it is good to stress, regretfully, that there is almost nothing in it that concerns agriculture, food safety, food sovereignty, when the packages are taken into Nazitibara, one after another. For example, there is no place for agriculture in the package of measures. Erdogan informed me that his 2020 supports were paid; that is not true; he is obviously misled by advisors. Given that Turkey has become a country that imports agricultural products, which is 81 billion dollars in agricultural raw materials and goods imports, we have over $13 billion in agricultural raw materials exports. Because we're in such an absolute importer position, it's likely that food assurance is at the top of the issues that we need to question very much. The seriousness of the process once again arises, especially considering that we received 10 million tons of wheat from Russia in 2019 and Russia began to block imports. Friends, in different provinces of Turkey, I met farmers in 10 different counties. Everyone's common anxiety is that the supply chain can't be built the way it used to be. The manufacturer can't transport the goods he produces to the big cities, and sometimes, at the expense of it, he collects it just to clean up the field. In addition, agriculture, especially the price of input, had many problems, so the coronavirus crisis was added. The gloves, masks, disinfectant products, and so on, almost all of them have become new costs. FAO recently shared a memo, dear friends. He stressed that the outbreak would seriously affect food supply chains and that there could be a shortage in the world. Now, if that's the case, if we're in such a critical situation, we need some measures, an emergency action plan, the government, the Ministry, to be on the agenda as soon as possible. We, the People's Democratic Party Agricultural Commission, have come to the conclusion that it is appropriate to share these proposals with you: an urgent action plan for agriculture against the Corona threat and the risk of famine must be prepared and the entire supply chain must be secured from the field to the plate. All agricultural supports from 2019 must be paid immediately, and support must be increased by including all plant and animal products. For farmers to produce and agriculture to be sustainable, agricultural input prices need to be lowered, diesel and other entries need to be removed from VAT and OTV. All agricultural workers must be provided to work in hygienic conditions. Workers must work at least two metres of physical distance in the field, and workers must be given special protective clothing, masks, gloves, and disinfectant products free of charge. Agricultural areas must be shut down and declared a quarantine zone in order to ensure agricultural production will continue in a virus-free environment. The production of the manufacturer must be guaranteed by the government. Seasonal farm workers travel through the Ministry of Interior and...
tbmm-2020-04-07sit01spe0004par0040	Complete, Mr. Turan.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit01spe0002par0041	...with the co-ordination of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, the coronavirus factor must be carried out by providing security and hygiene conditions. Before seasonal agricultural workers leave, health checks must be made and their shelters should be fit for norms, periodically disinfected. All workers in the countryside must be covered by social security. Like grain products, exports in the risk group must be banned. Our farmers' debts to banks and Agriculture Loan Cooperatives must be met by the state as public debt. Because of the execution, the farmer must be forbidden to take his land away from him. With the next Ramazan month, measures must be taken to prevent unfair price hikes due to increased food demand. In order to ensure food sovereignty during this crisis, where the borders are closed, the trade is suspended, there must be an emergency legal arrangement for reuse of the domestic ancestor seed. In the 90s, it should be encouraged to return to villages burned, destroyed, and evacuated for production, and the public's efforts to restart agricultural production should be supported by the state. That's a couple of billion dollars to settle, fellas. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] The last sentence, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit01spe0005par0045	Let's take your last sentence and your greeting.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit01spe0002par0046	The power that gave Mehmet Genghis (Gabriel) the $19 billion contract and then erased the $425 million debt I hope won't spare the few billion for the future of our people. I salute the General Assembly. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit01spe0006par0050	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, when we try to maintain social distance, there are distances between our friends, and when the conversation is appropriate, there's a serious noise, there's a hum in the hall, and let's be careful about that. Also, valuable lawmakers, today, I will interrupt the unification at certain intervals; we will all work together to ensure that all our friends get air outside, and also to ensure that the Parliamentary General Assembly is aired out. The second word outside the agenda belongs to our Istanbul MP, Mr. Sezgin Tanrıkulu, who wants to speak about human rights violations. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is five minutes, Your Holiness. [[Whistling]] Guys, let's stop humming, please.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit01spe0007par0058	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I respectfully salute you all. I also congratulate our citizens of Berat Kandili, and wish them health. Dear friends, we're going through a difficult time, the whole world is going through a difficult time. So I guess we're going to get through these difficult days together with solidarity, with a sense of justice, but in these difficult days, there are very important things expected of us, expected of this Parliament, from the state. First of all, our citizens need to have a way of ruling at this time where they can trust the government; there has to be a period where justice is applied equally to everyone. We are at a time when it is necessary to reach out to our citizens, the poor, the laborers, the unemployed, the unemployed, the day-to-day employees, the most state hands, the support, the solidarity, and, of course, the rights of our citizens, the inmates, the prisoners and the prisoners who are under the guarantee of the state, especially the right to live. There's an execution law that will begin their discussion today, so with another expression, the amnesty law, a partial amnesty law, will be on the agenda of Parliament today, maybe tomorrow. Now, we have thousands of people with ears and eyes, not just people in prison; they have relatives, brothers, children. The proposal for this law to come to Parliament today is only about prisoners and a limited legal proposal and an offer of equality in terms of execution that will not ensure justice. At the same time, an offer of law that does not precipitate equality in this period and is not based on the actual goal of modern execution law, not on the kind of crime, not on the type of crime, but on the criminal, whether the criminal is dangerous, whether he's a repeater and if he's a danger to society, beyond a system of executions, and a law proposal that provides a reduction according to criminal types. But beyond that, there are thousands of prisoners in prisons, dear friends, valued lawmakers, thousands of prisoners. Of course, there's no need for a legal arrangement. After all, courts, prosecutors, if there are investigations, prosecutors, prosecutions, courts, adjudications, the Supreme Court, the Supreme Court of Justice, must decide on these matters. However, we see that the courts and prosecutors have not stepped forward. We see that the judicial control measures that have taken place in the arrest place have not been implemented in terms of prisoners. However, they could have handled the files without waiting for trial days and made decisions about it. At a time when the whole of Turkey is almost quarantined, what criminal, which prisoner will judge what evidence, which witness will influence, and how will he be suspicious of escape, how? In a time when you can't even go from one city to another town, to another district, how do the courts still decide to remain in custody during this epidemic period? How can journalists, activists, make such decisions in terms of the possible prisoners if they are prisoners that can be converted into other measures? I'd like to make a call here to Mr. President: because of the reserve set by Mr. President, we have citizens who have been evacuated and then arrested again, politicians, activists. They were evacuated, but they were re-arrested because of the reserve set by Mr. President. At the beginning of this, my colleague who had been a member of this Parliament for many years, Selahattin Demirtaş; he had been released; but he was arrested again for saying, "How can he be released?" There's Osman Kavala. Osman Kavala was also released, but after the President's speech at the group meeting, he was arrested again in the evening for another crime. He was 70 years old; he was released; he was released; he was released in court; but after the campaign, he was arrested again by an unauthorized court. Selçuk Koztree was evacuated, arrested again. There are dozens of people like that we can't name. There is Idris Bauken; he was released; then he was arrested again, and he was convicted because of the reserve. There are many politicians like that. Dear friends, look, all of these conscientious burdens are on this Parliament and especially on the President.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit01spe0008par0066	Complete it, Mr. Godkulu.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit01spe0007par0067	Because the first place this pandemic hits is the prisons, and it's starting to hit. We've just received information that a second prison physician in Şakran Prison has been treated with a prerequisite of the virus, so as a result, this physician is bound to get it from the prison environment, so it's possible that if it becomes common. Therefore, from here, this Parliament must all call the judges, the judges, the prosecutors at the same time. Because the judges who didn't make that decision, in terms of these cases, may be the perpetrators of a possible manslaughter charge. So today, as these negotiations begin here, let's send our messages to the judge and let the politicians open the way for the judiciary. And I'm going to say once again that we're going to be trying to make sure that the next law in terms of convicts is a law that will ensure equality and justice in the execution. I also urge the Justice and Development Party and MPHP to take a stand on this issue. I salute you with respect and say stay healthy.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit01spe0008par0070	The third non-responsive statement belongs to Ankara MP Emrullah İslam, who asked for a speech due to Berat Kandili. Here you go, Mr. Business. Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit01spe0009par0074	Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, I have taken an off-the-book promise that this meaningful night, the blessed Berat Kandili, will bring peace and peace to you, our country and humanity. I salute your great delegation, especially our Necip nation, with respect and conversation. The night of the holy month of Ramadan, the month of mercy, forgiveness, blessing, and healing, welcomes the whole world and the family of mankind, with suffering and sorrows caused by a great epidemic. In the evening of this lamp, we will accompany the Grand Creator, the supplications, the supplications from all around the earth, the voices of the oppressors rising from our beautiful land, and the tears of prayer and sincerity. In all our households of Turkey, in all its glory and sorrow, as an epiphany of unity and unity, we will raise our hands to the sky from our homes, and pray to God Almighty, and ask him to have mercy on his weak servants, and to give them urgent healings. The month of Ramadan, the night of Berat and its harbinger, is a special time zone, courtesy of the Almighty God, who gave us the opportunity to calculate our humanity on our journey of life. The Night of Berat gives us the opportunity to examine how we carry out our responsibility to be human and how our relationship with a whole world of beings is happening. Let's stop and think about what we've done as humans, what we've done. What's our individual humanity like? What's our social status? How's our human-human relationship and our human-verse relationship? On this night, the answers to these high questions of humanity and so on may turn this great plague into mercy because the Night of Berat is forgiveness, mercy, and healing for all the worlds that have been spread out by divine love and compassion, and a desperate fear for the future of all mankind is a light and hope for all mankind these days. Is there anyone who begs forgiveness until the Day of Judgement, in the love and compassion of God, our beloved Prophet (SAV), about the night of purity and salvation? Whosoever desires livelihood, I shall provide for him. Whosoever is troubled, let me give him pleasure. He has given us good news of his commandment. It is our government officials and scientists' search for a way to achieve the good news expressed in the event, that our government officials and scientists continue to conduct all kinds of administrative, scientific and technological work in order to find a cure for the virus that enrages humanity. On the other hand, on this holy night, each one of us must strive to feel this good news in his own field of existence, united and sincerely, to join in with our heartfelt prayers for the good news of our beloved prophet, and to seek the mercy, love, and compassion of the Almighty God. In fact, each man's fate is in his own hands and his own responsibility. As in every crisis, if we can show love, compassion, and compassion to all mankind in this time of crisis, the breasts, the blessings, the poor, the poor, the poor, the poor, the needy, and the universe in which we live, the environment, the environment, the environment, the environment, and all the people in which we live, all the earth will become a land of narrowness and security. In these difficult times, if we put aside our feelings of hatred, hatred, anger, and hostility, and follow the path of love and peace, the Great Lord will forgive us and bless us. If we can ask for the beauty that we want for ourselves, and for others, God grants us all the good things. If we can reach the rescue of the oppressed and the oppressed and the afflicted, our great Lord will grant us our blessings. With this feeling and thought, I congratulate you on the blessed night of Berat of our beloved nation, our nation abroad, our brothers and sisters in our heart geography, and all the world of Islam. On this occasion, the most honorable of all who have been created in these difficult days, I humbly thank our health workers, our security forces, our municipal employees, all our public officials, who have worked day and night to keep us alive. I pray that our precious people be patient, firm, and zealous from God the Most High. I ask God's mercy upon our brothers who have died of this relentless illness, and patience for their grieving families,
tbmm-2020-04-07sit01spe0010par0082	Finish it, Mr. Business.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit01spe0009par0083	To prevent this disease from spreading, I offer my deepest gratitude to our elders, our young and all our sensitive citizens, who fit the call to stay at home. Syria, Palestine, Yemen, Libya, especially in different geographys of the world, I call upon Cenab to quickly let go of the tears that flow, not to destroy our nation, to restore Muhammad's community, to guide all human beings to the right and to join the nation in peace and security. Once again, congratulations and compliments on the Berat Night of the Necip nation, which is watching us at the beginning of the screens and the precious MPs.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit01spe0011par0087	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I will now promise our valued MPs who have entered the system. Of course, knowing the challenges of this process, my dear friends, it's best to keep the conversation short. I was promising the first 30 MPs, but today I think I'll make a promise to the first 20. So let's all work together to get you to meet with fresh air as soon as we can use time to your advantage. Let these days be like this, we'll make it up to you later. Mr. Lightning...
tbmm-2020-04-07sit01spe0012par0091	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I wish to congratulate Berat Kandili, to bring health and happiness to the Turkish and Islamic world. Because of the Coronavirus, almost 20 million students stay at home and many of them receive remote education. My call is to the Minister of Transport: In the meantime, this will give our students a little comfort, free Internet or at least a 50% discount if it can't be done for free. Because most of society is at home, and the economic levels are in the middle, as well as the Internet, social media, and youTube. With instructions to the companies that provide this internet access by taking the government's necessary decisions on this matter, I demand that Internet access be free in this process, and I offer respects.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit01spe0013par0094	Mr. Kaya...
tbmm-2020-04-07sit01spe0014par0096	Thank you, Mr. President. The Night of Judgement is a night of divine salvation, which the Almighty God has given to us believers. It is a good opportunity to get rid of all kinds of grief and distress, human error, and sin, and unbecoming speech, attitude, and conduct. The night of our Berat, the world of Islam, and all humanity will lead to salvation and prosperity from the Covid-19 virus, a day that will allow us to forget resentment and resentment and friendship, brotherhood, peace, and, more importantly, to restore our unity and unity. On this occasion, the messenger of the Ramadan sherif, I wish that the night of Berat, where God's mercy encompasses the earth and the sky, should be the cause of salvation and good for our nation, the world of Islam and all mankind. I salute the General Assembly, saying to all our citizens who died because of the Covid-19 virus, that God be merciful, and bless all our patients with immediate healing.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit01spe0015par0100	Mr. Durmusoglu...
tbmm-2020-04-07sit01spe0016par0102	Thank you, Mr. President. I call upon the Lord God, our Lord, to bring salvation and prosperity to our nation, the world of Islam, and to all mankind, that the mercy of God encompasses the earth and the sky. I'm celebrating the 7th of April Health Day for all of our health workers, from his doctor, who devoted himself to health care and put his night into the day, to his nurse, who faced all kinds of hardship and hardship. As the healthcare system of many countries collapsed in these days, our President Recep Tayyip Erdogan was once again seen how strong our healthcare system has been because of huge health projects under the leadership of our President Recep Tayyip Erdogan. Thanks to our selfless and selfless heroes who serve this country, I sincerely hope that we will get through this difficult process, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit01spe0017par0107	Mr. Clumsy...
tbmm-2020-04-07sit01spe0018par0109	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I'm always expressing the problems of society on this stand. I got a promise to thank you this time. First of all, dear friends, at the point of bringing our Hataylı fellow citizens to Turkey, I thank Mr. Foreign Minister, our Group Deputy President Mr. Free Private, and again, Mr. Özlem Güzel, Deputy Chairman of the EC PARTY Group, Mr. Qadim Durmaz, our head of the Turkish Grand National Assembly, Mr. Qadim Durmaz, and our deputy foreign minister, Mr. Yavuz Selim Kiran. Thank you, I pay my respects.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit01spe0019par0113	Your Excessive...
tbmm-2020-04-07sit01spe0020par0115	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, I congratulate you on the Berat Night of the entire Islamic world, especially our beloved nation. On this blessed night, I call upon Almighty God to deliver our nation and all mankind from this deadly plague. We all see what happens when the measures against the Coronavirus are not followed. To stop the spread of the virus and get rid of it completely, we must obey social isolation. We have to quarantine ourselves, wear masks, maintain social distance, wash our hands properly if necessary. As Muslims, there are three basic principles for our stand against trouble and wastelessness - caution, trust, and prayer. As we carefully follow all precautions, we will seek God's help and consent on this blessed night and at all times with trust and prayer. I pray for God's mercy to our citizens who have died in the plague, and for our patients who are still in treatment, and for immediate healing, and for the sake of the General Assembly, I salute them.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit01spe0021par0120	Mr. Flagtutan...
tbmm-2020-04-07sit01spe0022par0122	Thank you, Mr. President. I just got a call from our mayor, Erkan Özyazcı, from Arhavi district of Artvin. Unfortunately, our citizens in Arhavi -- although we wear masks in the Assembly General Assembly -- are instructed to wear masks in their pharmacy, our citizens are unable to use the mask. There's a deep victimism in this, and we're waiting for authorities to instruct us to eliminate this threat as soon as possible, and we're asking for the release of mask sales. Other than that, the Genghis Group's Eti Bakır Enterprises are also involved in some activities in Artvin Cerattepe, which are related to copper businesses in Murgul. There are problems with job safety, health, hygiene. Again, there are problems with dam work in the Yusufeli district center. The workers who work here are on their way to the district centre after they complete their duties. Therefore, a paid permit must be processed immediately in order to prevent this injury and ensure hygienic conditions. The urgency here, what's the rush? Even in these difficult days of mining in Cerattepe...
tbmm-2020-04-07sit01spe0023par0126	Mr. Chepni...
tbmm-2020-04-07sit01spe0024par0128	Thank you, Mayor. All over the world, fighting pandemics. However, Turkey is busy taking opportunities to fight the public, not the virus. Stay in the house while working life is meaningless. The government has officially allowed people between the ages of 18 and 20 to work. Although there have been close cases in İzzmir Çımli, Akar Textile, the Ministry has granted work permits for the workplace, 2,000 workers face death; thousands of such examples are available. For all employees, the government must immediately declare a paid permit, not the profits of companies, but the health of the public.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit01spe0023par0130	Mr. Gültekin...
tbmm-2020-04-07sit01spe0025par0132	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, let the people live so that the state can live. During the EC PARTI period, thanks to the Health Transformation Programme, which began under the leadership of our President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, we see today that the fight against the coronavirus epidemic has been carried out with sacrifice and success. In health, we also bring to life an example of transformation in our Niğde. It will be equipped with state-of-the-art tech equipment that I gave my fellow citizens the good news of in the budget talks of 2020, which will increase the momentum our Niğde will have in healthcare, will contribute greatly to our city economy and employment; we will begin the tender of our modern, 400-bed additional hospitals on May 6, 2020, and hopefully very quickly. In the introduction of our hospital to Niğde, I thank Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, our Minister of Health, Mr. Fahrettin Koca. And all who have done so, on behalf of the Niğdels, he wishes our hospital to be a blessing to our Niğde. I congratulate our blessed Berat Night, the publisher of Ramazan, our Veteran Assembly and the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit01spe0023par0134	Mr. Özkan...
tbmm-2020-04-07sit01spe0026par0136	Thank you, Mr. President. Drawing the most important sign of change and transformation on our journey of worship, berat is an important good news that tells us that a person has been born from sin. The night of the holy Berat is a nearness that prepares us for the moon of Ramadan, whose light shadow begins to fall upon us, which brings us to a living mind and a clear heart, and brings us to the ground of obedience with our Lord. It is a unique opportunity to be acquitted of all the sorrows and tribulations that weigh heavily on our souls, of the sin and sin that afflicts man, of the unbecoming words, attitude, and conduct that weigh heavily on our souls. I congratulate you on this blessed night, and I salute the General Assembly, that our nation and mankind should be since the plague and all kinds of tribulations.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit01spe0023par0138	Mr. Arkaz...
tbmm-2020-04-07sit01spe0027par0140	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, I congratulate our nation's Berat Kandili. As a Turkish nation, we are in a tough fight with Covid-19. While fighting an invisible, sneaky enemy, our heroes on the front line are all health workers, especially our doctors. The number of our heroes who shielded their lives is about to reach 700. Our heroes who walked to Hakk, while in office, are martyrs in the eyes of our nation. In that sense, my expectation from the High Council is that by unanimous decision that doctors and health workers who have died infected this virus will be considered martyrs. Professor Dr. Cemil Taşçıoğlu and Professor Dr. Feriha Öz Hodja are all of our health workers who died while on duty, with mercy and gratitude. Remember, our health workers are staying at the hospital for us, so stay home for them. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit01spe0028par0146	Mr. Aydemir...
tbmm-2020-04-07sit01spe0029par0148	Mr. President, thank you. Covid-19 has upset every balance in the world. Economic organizations are making anxious statements that lead to developments. The IMF says the world is going to a deep recession, prepare for the most powerful crisis in history. There's no need to be allegorical to see that, even the most unmistakable one knows it. But there is another truth, which is also expressed by global economic actors. The assessment of Fitch Ratings is that Turkey will keep inflation at 8 per cent this year, with measures taken over the past two years. It adds: The signal that the Central Bank is ready to lower interest at any time makes its economy resistant. We say: The key to success is our way of ruling. Anyone who wants to see it, let the New Economy Programme, which our Treasury and Finance Ministry announced in 2018 look at the process of stabilisation, discipline and change. And the final note: time is on our side, God willing.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit01spe0030par0152	Mr. Subas...
tbmm-2020-04-07sit01spe0031par0154	Thank you, Mr. President. As of yesterday, 649 of our citizens who died of Covid-19 disease, I ask for mercy from the Great Lord, my condolences to their families and loved ones, and I ask for immediate healing for our patients. In the fight against this epidemic, Mr. Health Minister, I give thanks to our Science Board members, all of our doctors, all of our health workers, for their selfless work. I hereby congratulate our blessed Berat Kandili, and wish this night to be a blessing. I also thank the Speaker of Parliament today for providing us with this cologne and social isolation, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit01spe0030par0156	Mr. Stoneborn...
tbmm-2020-04-07sit01spe0032par0158	Mr. President, ninety-nine years ago, when Gaziantep was under investigation, the telegram collapsed, and there were only carrier pigeons left for communication. It is a wonderful feeling to see where the PTT (PTT) has come from today. As the corona virus surrounds the world, it's important to remember all the postal distributors and all the PTT employees who are trying to do their duty in spite of any difficult circumstances. Today, we don't want anyone to leave our homes, and I want to wish you success, for our people over the age of 65, who carry their needs, like salary, to their homes, even to our homes, with masks. When this trouble is over, I'd like to remind the authorities of our government to arrange their rights. I congratulate you on your Berat Kandili, which we wish would lead to the acquittal of this siege.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit01spe0030par0160	Mr. Ozturk...
tbmm-2020-04-07sit01spe0033par0162	I celebrate the blessed lamp of our nation, which we believe to be the night of the blessing and mercy, which is given to the Prophet the right of intercession, which is given to the Prophet, the night of the blessing and the night of the blessing. On this occasion, we have received a pledge from our Parliamentary Speaker Mustafa Sentop., to our citizens on April 23rd, 21st. Let's read the Istiklal March from our homes at 00. I support the call. As he warned our minarets about the coronavirus every day, on the night of April 23rd, on the grounds of the 100th anniversary of the opening of our House of Religious Affairs. In order to consolidate our unity and unity at 00, I ask that our Instigative March be used to read from our minarets in order to bring joy and morale to our people.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit01spe0030par0164	Mr. Sumer...
tbmm-2020-04-07sit01spe0034par0166	Thank you, Mr. President. I celebrate the Berat Kandili of the Muslim world. May God have mercy on our citizens who died because of the Corona virus outbreak, and for those who are sick, and for those who are sick, I pray for immediate healing. Of course, we know the challenges of the process, but many people, such as our van driver and bus boy, are urgently looking for help and support. Even if they find passengers to carry, our van drivers, who have to carry half their car capacity, can't even take out their gas money anymore, so they dial their contacts at any cost. I'm passing on the demands of van drivers and servicemen from here to the authorities. The VAT rate of 18% will be withdrawn to 1.5 per cent, with a down payment of diesel or diesel per kilometre per mile along the routes of the vans, and the loan and credit card loans of our van driver and serviceman will be postponed for eight months without interest.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit01spe0035par0170	Mr. Iron...
tbmm-2020-04-07sit01spe0036par0172	Thank you, Mr. President. The Coronavirus continues to pose a threat to the world and our country. For 18 years, we've had 43,000 intensive care units and city hospitals that could be used in the epidemic with breakthroughs in health care. 2.682 beds, 456 intensive care units and Turkey's third-largest health project, Başakşehir Biktelli City Hospital, will open in mid-April, but the roads were never made by İstanbul Metropolitan Municipality and unfortunately reported to the governorship that they could not do so. Instead of pursuing political interests in these days, we should be united and in solidarity, while unfortunately the Istanbulers did not receive the necessary support from the Istanbul Metropolitan Municipality. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] In the end, it's up to the authorities again, and the road construction work was done by our Ministry of Transport under orders from our President Recep Tayyip Erdogan.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit01spe0037par0176	Mr. Gergerlioğlu...
tbmm-2020-04-07sit01spe0038par0178	Thank you, Mr. President. Millions are waiting for the death law to immediately evacuate. There has been no change in the commission talks to address major violations, dramas. No changes have been made to legal attitudes, to the freedom of speech, to the definition of terrorism, and journalists, politicians, are still in prisons, unfortunately. For days, millions of "tweets" have been posted on social media every day for a fair law, thousands of messages have been sent to MPs' phones, e-mails have been sent; civil society, nation, its deputies are waiting for justice, law. As the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, we're all protecting ourselves with masks, with our will, perfectly well, but what do we need people in prisons who are desperate, without water, without disinfection?
tbmm-2020-04-07sit01spe0039par0181	Mr. Stonedemir...
tbmm-2020-04-07sit01spe0040par0183	Thank you, Mayor. As you know, Group Commentary members have turned their hunger strike into a fast of death, demanding the end of pressure and bans on concerts, which is to make art free. The band's Commentary member, Helin Dividek, lost his life in public for two hundred and eighty days to be heard. So imagine a country where artists have to put their bodies to hunger to do their art. Helin died for it, and this country entered the history of geography as one of the pages of shame. Group Commentary member Ibrahim Gökçek, two hundred and ninety-five, on his two hundred and eightyth day, Mustafa Koçak, who is on a death sentence demanding a judicial trial, and their lives are now critical enough to be said to be tied to a thread of cotton. No one, especially the House, can stand by and watch these people die in such a time as we have blessed to survive in an epidemic. Their demands are never demands that will not be met. I demand that the House step in immediately and take responsibility at the point of stopping the killings.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit01spe0039par0185	Mr. Steel...
tbmm-2020-04-07sit01spe0041par0187	Thank you, Mayor. Hürmuz Diril and Shimuni Diril, who live in Mehri district of Beytüşşebap district of Şırnak province, have been missing since 11 January. Despite all our calls, no effective search has been conducted. The investigation has not been taken seriously, no statement has been made. The government has taken no steps to find missing citizens. As a result, the lifeless body of Shimuni Diril was found on March 20th. The state must protect its citizens' right to live. However, he has not yet fulfilled his mission. The authorities' attitude raises concern for the Suryans, whose numbers are growing smaller in the region. The state must carry out its duty, an effective search and rescue operation must be carried out, the case must be carefully investigated, and the authorities who lead the investigation must make a statement about the investigation. We also need to act urgently in order to find the Hürmuz Resurrection, whom we hope is alive.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit01spe0039par0189	Dear Sugar...
tbmm-2020-04-07sit01spe0042par0191	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs, important work is being done in the coordination of our Ministry of Health, headed by our President Recep Tayyip Erdogan to slow the spread of the coronavirus in our country. I would like to thank all of our health workers, especially the hospital chief health workers, who have successfully provided the creation of pandemic hospitals in our province, the ability of visitors from abroad to conduct quarantine procedures in our province, the transport of the coronavirus patients and the necessary health supplies and co-ordination of the necessary health supplies. In the meantime, we will never forget the selfless work of your valued health workers. He says, "God bless you, and I congratulate you on Berat Kandili, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit01spe0039par0193	Finally, Mr. Aydoğan...
tbmm-2020-04-07sit01spe0043par0195	Thank you, Mr. President. The Centre for Loans and Homes has cut the scholarship for Ankara University students. Why? Because they put on a show and criticized this order. So now the Credit and Homes Agency punishes those who oppose it. Especially in an epidemic, when all of our young people, all of our citizens, are supposed to be protected by the social state, the fact that students' scholarships have been cut is something that the Ministry of Youth and Sports looks at. I invite the Ministry and the Centre for Loans and Homes to be carried out in the case of the social state, the constitutional guarantees of young people. Otherwise, a world of literature based on the virus and the epidemic will become a criminal even from this event alone. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit01spe0044par0198	Dear lawmakers, isn't it right to talk to the mask -- at this point we were able to do it, so it's good to do it. I see everyone's voice is clearly heard. Thank you, dear friends, all. Now, Mr. Group, I will meet the demands of our Vice President. First of all, Mr. Turkkan, deputy president of the group. Here you go.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit01spe0045par0204	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, today we understand the Berat Kandili, blessed be the lamp of our nation, I wish it to be a blessing. May God make this blessed night a means of escape from this plague. Blessed be the night of Berat for all of us. In response to the Coronavirus outbreak, a campaign launched by many major cities, especially Ankara and Istanbul, was halted by the Interior Ministry for the aid of small-income and needy families. We marvel at this decision, we condemn it. It is impossible to understand what the government intends to do by stopping a campaign that helps millions of citizens and makes needy families breathe. Aren't our citizens the ones who helped Ankara Metropolitan Municipality and the ones Ankara Metropolitan Municipality helped? Aren't those who donated to İstanbul Metropolitan Municipality and those who were funded by İstanbul Metropolitan Municipality, our citizens? We're really tired of you polarizing these people even on such difficult days. We're really tired of you splitting it apart instead of uniting it. Even when we have a pandemic virus that dominates the entire world and the entire human race has mobilized to fight it, you stop the help that is being done, not just from us and from us. Instead of diversifying the aid and bringing it to all sides, it's unthinkable to bring bans to neither humanity nor conscience. I'd like to point out something at this point. The Meat and Milk Foundation -- that used to be the Meat and Fish Foundation -- has imported meats in their warehouses, which I've just learned, became a Meat and Milk Foundation. There's talk of 50,000 tons of imported meat, carcas. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm getting reports that the meat that's been waiting at the Meat and Milk Association warehouses is rotting, it's corrupt, I'm talking 50,000 tons of meat. If my hearing is wrong, now is the right time, give it to the citizen at a low price, let the citizens eat well, let the citizens gain immunity, fight the virus. Why are you waiting to hand these out? Or do you have other intentions with these meats? If so, tell us, and we'll find out. If our hearing is wrong, let's wait for an explanation from the Minister. It's always highlighted, but I'd like to point out once again that all of our health workers on the front line in the fight against the plague must be protected and protected first. It is important to applaud, though, in a moral sense, but not enough; self - worth rights and additional financial premiums must be given.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit01spe0046par0211	Let's complete it, Mr. Turkkan.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit01spe0045par0212	We also argue that all of our health workers who have been caught and died in the battle against the coronavirus should be declared martyrs without distinction, as our Mr. President, Coral Akshener, stated. Because like our Mehmet, they put themselves in danger so that we can live in these difficult times. AS THE GOOD PARTY, under the orders of our Mr. President, we would like to ask that the health workers who lost their lives during the outbreak of the coronavirus come to the General Assembly as soon as possible to be considered a martyr. While wishing that these losses would never take place in our country, it should not be ignored the sanctity of the task that our health members are doing in the matter of betting.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit01spe0046par0214	Let's finish it.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit01spe0045par0215	In order to legalise the sanctity of the duties of health professionals who have done their duty without hesitation in the fight against the epidemic during this period, and to ensure that the deceased personnel have a similar status with the Armed Forces, the Police, the Police, the National Intelligence Agency, and other interested personnel, the Veterans must carry out an essential task immediately. By the way, Mr. President, I'd like to thank you for your practice on this mask today. We've been a little loose in the past two weeks, although we've been giving serious warnings about this. We have immunity from the bench, which seems to exist even though it hasn't been for a long time, but we don't have immunity from disease. Thank you for reminding me of that. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit01spe0047par0218	I thank you, too. Mr. Akçay, deputy chairman of the National Movement Party Group. Mr. Akçay, first of all, I'd like to ask you to make a statement on one matter. Your Vice President and Istanbul MP, Mr. Feti Yıldız, announced on social media, was the result of a test we were delighted to learn later. We wish you well, if you'd be so kind as to inform her about it. I just want you to get well again. Here you go.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit01spe0048par0226	Thank you very much, Mr. President. As you pointed out, our Vice President, Istanbul MP, and our very dear brother Feti Yildiz Bey had a post from Twitter yesterday. He's already been our older brother, who's been very sensitive and attentive to the measures against this epidemic since the outbreak of the coronavirus, but he wasn't concerned about his age. Preliminary examinations have already been tested negative as a result of these coronavirus tests, while the follow-up confirmation test is negative, and, of course, due to age and medical problems, he will remain in the hospital for several more days for further examinations and examinations. We wish him well again, and I would like to express to him that there is no cause for concern. Mr. President, I pray that the night of the month of Ramadan, when the gates of food and healing are opened, on the night of mercy, blessings, and forgiveness of the faithful, the night of Berat Kandili, should be a blessing for our nation, the Islamic world, and all mankind. On 4 April 2020, the founder of our party and the ulterior movement, we remembered and understood the 23rd anniversary of the death of our Basbug, Alparslan Türkesh. The memory of our late Prime Minister is in our hearts with the same freshness, his struggle continues with the same excitement, his ideas shed light on our future as they did yesterday. He left us a large legacy, such as Turkish nationalism, nationalism and the National Movement Party. Alparslan Türkesh is an idea and a man of action. Chief Turkesh says that an unrelated man is like a ship without a helm, without a compass. He has transformed the love of his heart at a young age into a movement of ideas, into a caravan of time and space. He put the idea of nationalism at the center of politics in a political program, making it a political program. At the heart of this policy is the nation and democracy, which is based on multi-party democracy, an inclusive and integrating foundation. This is the understanding and politics of the Turkish nation, which, in its entirety, does not accept separation from its existence. For this reason, the National Movement Party opposes ethnicism, racism, sectarianism, communityism because it has been referred to as a whole. He's also opposed to all kinds of totalitarianism because he's a reference to democracy.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit01spe0049par0232	Go ahead.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit01spe0048par0233	In the wake of our chieftain, under our leader's command and in the service of our nation, we will carry the Turkish nationalism torch forever. On this occasion, we celebrate again Alparslan Türkesh, our Archduke, with mercy and gratitude, his place is paradise. Let the martyrs he calls his companion. Mr. President, the world has experienced the importance of health in different periods of history with the sad consequences of epidemics. The condition of a healthy world is a healthy environment, a healthy society, and a healthy individual. Today, I also celebrate World Health Day, when we are reliving the importance of health in human life. I wish God's mercy to our citizens who died of the Corona virus epidemic, and to our patients who are on medication. The virus was declared to the world on January 10, 2020, and the Ministry of Health began to conduct the necessary work before the announcement date.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit01spe0050par0239	Let's finish it.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit01spe0048par0240	At this point today, our state institutions and our nation have come a long way to fight the epidemic. Mr. President, I would like to take this opportunity to finish my words in the words of our dear artist, musician and composer, our dear brother, Mr. Ahmet Shafah, who has also made a theme with his intellectual identity: We'll see the night, we'll see the sun, we'll see the sun, we'll see the future, we'll see the future, we'll see the wheat again, spring, summer, children will come back, we'll see it together, we'll see it together, we'll be busy, we'll smile in faces, we'll start again, we'll be happy again, we'll see the wheat again, spring, summer will come again. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit01spe0051par0243	On behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, Here you go, Mr. Oluç.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit01spe0052par0246	Thank you. Mr. President, Mr. Deputys, first of all, bless you and the Berat Kandili of all our people. There has always been health in our good intentions and prayers in the candles. In this lamp, we wish for health and peace to come to all mankind, and then for peace and quiet that we need the most. We hope that humanity will survive this crisis -- the corona crisis -- in solidarity. In this context, we celebrate the Berat Kandili, of all the worlds of Islam and our peoples. Mr. President, with a very right attitude, we've solved the matter of wearing this mask; of course it's important. We're going through a really tough time, but I just want to remind you that while we're paying attention and attention in the House, there are some people who can't pay attention and care, I want to remind them. One is where a lot of people stay together in a ward in prisons, and we'll continue to discuss it today, tomorrow, in the days to come. There's no way they can take such precautions. The second is that workers, workers, workers, and workers, who work in businesses that are not mandatory, cannot pay the same attention and attention, unfortunately. We want all of our deputies to think, feel, to think, to feel, to think, to think, to think, to feel, to think, to think, to think, to think, to think, to think, to think, to think, to think, to think, to think, to think, to think, to think, to think, to think, to think, to think, to think, to think, to think, to think, to think, to think, to think, to think, to think, to think, to think, to think, to think, to Now, the whole world is fighting a fierce battle against the pandemic of the corona virus. There are various measures taken in this struggle. We take some of this, we argue, we talk, we express our demands. I'd like to remind you that international institutions have been calling in especially concentrated lately. They have calls to all countries of the world, and they have calls to Turkey.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit01spe0053par0252	Let's move on.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit01spe0052par0253	It's about prisons. For example, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights, the Amnesty International, the World Muslim Association of Scholars, the European Parliament, the World Anti- Torture Organization, the Human Rights Watch Organization, and many institutions and institutions in international prisons have issued statements saying that prisoners and prisoners should be evacuated for a reason and that necessary measures should be taken out. I wanted to remind you of these calls from international institutions. Why is this important right now? Look, we've just received reports that in Şakran Prison, Izmir Şakran Prison, another physician's results came back positive. He also dated a physician five days ago, became a second physician, and this second physician is known to have been in close contact with the prisoners, especially during the last week. So once again, let's emphasize the importance of this issue.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit01spe0053par0255	Let's finish it.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit01spe0052par0256	The prisons are facing an extremely stressful situation. In this context, of course, we'd like to know if the measures were taken enough at Shakran Prison. I'd like to make another point about the corona virus. No doubt we were discussing the number of tests very important in the early days, and we were saying that the more tests were done, the more the truth would come out, and it turned out that we were right. Currently, 21,000 tests a day have been reached in Turkey. This number needs to get higher. So it started with very low numbers, 21,000 is an important point, but it needs to go up. But I can't help but point out a fact. Diyarbakır State Health Directorate has issued a statement, the total number of tests conducted in Diyarbakır province has been 500 in 27 days. There have been 500 tests in Diyarbakır province in 27 days and no other; a statement by the State Health Directorate.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit01spe0053par0259	Complete it, Mr. Oluç.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit01spe0052par0260	Diyarbakır has been tested 500 times, but, for example, Diyarbakır is currently in hospital treatment for 128 citizens. So I don't have to tell you in proportion to the fact that there are 128 citizens in treatment for 500 tests, nine citizens are dead. So Diyarbakir is an example, but there must be some serious work to be done on this, otherwise we can see that very large inequalities are also happening on this subject. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit01spe0053par0262	On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, the Deputy Director of the Group is special. Here you go, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit01spe0054par0265	Thank you, Mr. President. We wish all groups and our valued deputies a successful and healthy week of work. So far, we ask for God's mercy on our 649 citizens, who have lost the corona virus, and hope that the cases will quickly be contained and the casualties will stop as soon as possible. Once again, we express our appreciation, gratitude, and feelings of solidarity to all who strive for it. Mr. President, tonight is Berat Night; Since Selim gave the good news of putting lamps in the minarets of mosques, he has been celebrated as Berat Kandili. We wish all Muslims and all humanity that Berat Kandili would bring health and peace. Berat means salvation, redemption and forgiveness, both literally and in terms of understanding the importance of this night. We also find it very meaningful that a night in which forgiveness is advised, as well as forgiveness, a day in which resentments and resentments are advised to forgive each other and on April 7th, the meeting of the law of execution, known as amnesty, begins in parliament. Our speakers, our party's position, and as the clauses progress, will voice our suggestions, criticisms in each article, but not in the political categories of forgiveness, and not in the political position of their party...
tbmm-2020-04-07sit01spe0055par0270	Let's move on.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit01spe0054par0271	...from the heart, with a genuine sense of justice, and a sense of justice that those who make this decision in their inner world can carry out, and we think it's very important that the scope of negotiations be determined in a way that does not undermine the sense of justice for everyone who makes this decision, and that the decisions are made. Mr. President, Turkey is fighting the coronavirus. For example, in the past few weeks, a huge mistake had been made: while people were dealing with the coronavirus, with their lives, someone was dealing with the Canal Istanbul tender. There have been many debates throughout Turkey, and political consequences, but on a smaller scale, while we were all here, cutting social contact, the former town of 40krep, present neighborhood Karakurt and Kars.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit01spe0055par0274	Go ahead, let's finish.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit01spe0054par0275	While people were working on their lives, someone went to Karakurt, staked them out, the idea that 70 percent of the land would be an olive grove, and there would be no collectibles, and they asked for a two-to-one-percent waiver and rearranged the deeds. I went -- in accordance with social contact -- and I got a petition signed by hundreds of people in Karakurt, from our district president, and I have it in my hand, and all of Karakurt wants it to be expressed in the House. Let me remind Karakurt, especially the AK PARTI Group: When we go to make political propaganda, the AK PARTI is so powerful that they were saying to us: "Oh, let's criticize the AK PARTI, but let's not say too much to the President, a neighborhood like this is getting a lot of support here. Look at the election results, especially the election results 17 years ago. The problem with this Karakurt is that the land borders are changing; an olive comes to the neighbor without olives, an olive for the former landowner, an empty land, and a 60-year-old olive for his grandfather. The drip's been irrigated, the drip system's failing.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit01spe0055par0277	Complete, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit01spe0054par0278	There are thousands of olives left on the roads between the parcels. Social peace is over. At this time, the Karakurtians are faced with a problem of going after their property and olives when they should be in isolation at home. We think the AK PARTY should hear, see, intervene. Mr. President, in the fight against the coronavirus today, the law of violence against our party's physician will soon be brought up on the part of the Internal Charter 37, where we all appreciate that our physicians, their professional organisation, their sister trade organisations, their healthcare unions, are agreed upon by our Ali Candy Deputy's first signature. In this regard, the Minister of Health said: "Applause, but do more." I asked inside, Mr. Secretary, what do we mean to get the message right?"
tbmm-2020-04-07sit01spe0055par0281	Complete, please, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit01spe0054par0282	Mr. President, it's a little difficult to express, so I'm hoping that you'll show even more generosity in the amount of flexibility you've always shown in terms of time. He told me himself, Mr. Minister, that the law of violence in health. Everyone knows that the Minister wants it, the health workers want it, the health workers want it, the occupational organisations, the doctors want it. We'll vote today, please, while there's time... we won't vote to pass the law exactly today, we'll vote to put it on the agenda. This is a test of intimacy for all of us. We put it on the agenda, pull it up to number one on a day we see fit, make it right with the motions, but I think that all groups have important tasks. Mr. President, last but not least, I'm going to use this part of my word to complain about one thing, one injustice to our nation and our National Assembly. He is the appointed Minister of Internal Affairs Süleyman Soylu, who was in charge of the administration, last week...
tbmm-2020-04-07sit01spe0056par0286	We're finishing, Mr. Special, for the last time.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit01spe0054par0287	... After the death of Group Commentary member Helin Korakek, one of our MPs -- we want everyone to make an effort to avoid any other deaths, not to bury the young -- says: "We have talked to all our MPs who have taken him out of the hospital by order of the DHKP-C. Our visiting MP, Ali Candy, is in the living room. The chief physician is speaking to Helin Sirek, in the presence of doctors, and he says: "We, the CHP, do not approve of the fast of death, we advise you to drop it. I've come to ask you to go to a full university hospital, to persuade you, and to ask you to hold on to life on this matter. Everyone is witnesses. How could you leave this?
tbmm-2020-04-07sit01spe0056par0289	Complete, Mr. Special, for the last time.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit01spe0054par0290	In the past, many lawmakers have mediated death fasts in the EC PARTY. He says: "The only condition I have is that after the outbreak of the coronavirus, the Group Comment will give a concert, not take our tools, not tear them up, not be wrongly detained, not be detained. You will give a concert when the state passes to him in Corona. If he says -- in front of everyone there -- he will leave the fast of death. That promise is not made, Helin is dying. The young people should not lose their lives. Because we said so, he comes out -- and he says to us: "You have prevented him from being treated. We have fought for him to be taken to the university hospital. He comes out, and then he's spreading money trolls from robot accounts on Twitter, and he's trying to get news from there, and he's trying to blame CHP.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit01spe0056par0292	Mr. Special, we're finishing, aren't we? Please...
tbmm-2020-04-07sit01spe0054par0293	I'm ending it, Mr. President. Unlike the People's Republican Party (CHP) and the DHKP-CH, Suleiman is not blessed with death, but with life. Come to your senses, Solomon, come to your senses! A young woman died between you and DHKP-C, and new ones could die. Let him not take away my beard, nor break it, nor put me in prison. If we had promised a concert, he would have lived. On the application of his lawyers, it's a court order that takes him home from the hospital. We don't support that decision. He tried to convince Helin to go to the university hospital. We condemn this lie. Solomon the fool will know his place, and the day will come when he will answer!
tbmm-2020-04-07sit01spe0056par0296	On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, the Deputy Director of the Group is Mr. Rich. Here you go, Mr. Rich.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit01spe0057par0299	Mr. President, my dear fellow lawmakers, I salute you and wish you a good week. In fact, how free we were without masks. In that sense, one actually appreciates the way he is. I thank you very much for your sensitivity, for this planning. Hopefully, we'll finish this week without causing the slightest inconvenience from any of our friends. Of course, at the beginning of my speech, I ask God's mercy for those who have died of this virus so far. It's a difficult process. I'm asking each of the paramedics, his doctor, his nurse, all of our employees, all of our employees, our gratitude, and I'm even bowing down to them with respect. Ankara's -- of course, we have people still working because there are processes going on in Turkey, there's a plague called terrorism, and I'll be there soon -- there was an explosion at the ROKETSAN Factory in the village of Elmağ -- very soon, within half an hour -- around 2:00 p.m., and we have no casualties in the result of this explosion, but we have three people, three people, our employees are injured. I wish them a speedy recovery. I also remember Mr. Turkesh on the anniversary of his death -- April 4th -- with mercy. I remember the work we did last year when the university in Adana was named after him. In that sense, I reminisce of him. The Berat Kandili -- Mr. Special -- have made it very clear, very clear -- is a very important night, of course, of course, from the suffering of the Islamic community. We prefer to sing at night. Because these nights, big secrets are hidden, a road to Ramadan. You know, on April 23rd, that night, the first sahur will rise. One of the most important nights in three months. These nights, we're all...
tbmm-2020-04-07sit01spe0058par0307	Let's move on.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit01spe0057par0308	Especially in mosques, it's almost like a huge festival. I mean, people run wildly, flocking to mosques, people... there's a movement that doesn't stop until morning. Women, women, there's more in those mosques. Our people won't be able to go to our mosques right now, but I know that they'll spend the same excitement, the same love, the same conversation in their homes, the people in our country, praying for the people of the world. In this sense, I call upon my Lord to make the night of the night of the night of the Berat a night where each of us's prayers are answered. Now, I'd like to say a few words about Group Comment. Every death is sad. Because I believe that people's accounts, along with their deaths, have ended the account of the world, which is what the law says. If you have a case, it's off, it's off, it's off, it's off, it's off.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit01spe0058par0311	Go ahead, Mr. Rich.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit01spe0057par0312	That's why we're closing the deal on people from now on. I mean, no matter how much it hurts, we're done. Now, when it came to the group's agenda, I felt the need to look at group interpretation concerts. You know, my friend, the Deputy Director of the Group: If you'd made a promise, a promise of a concert. What would it be like if we had given it -- because I was curious? Look, it's not like a concert, it's like this: The concert goes on -- you're going to remember it today -- and I want to remember it with mercy -- Selim Kiraz, as if they were living there, killing our fellow judge, as if they were living there -- I'm not going to tell their names here -- they didn't die, they didn't die among us.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit01spe0058par0314	Let's move on.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit01spe0057par0315	There's already been a crime, not a possibility of criminal activity. There's terror propaganda at that concert -- you don't see it -- I suggest you watch it. I suggest you watch those songs, that attitude over there.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit01spe0058par0317	Guys, let's be quiet, please, everybody calm down.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit01spe0057par0318	So what you're asking is that the government is going to make a commitment to an idea that they're struggling with, and there they're going to applaud the people who killed this country's prosecutor, its judge. That's it!
tbmm-2020-04-07sit01spe0058par0320	Friends, please, please, let's hear it.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit01spe0057par0321	Is that what you're suggesting? Me and our band listened to Mr. Special without a word. Mr. President, I invite my friends to rest, which is my opinion.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit01spe0058par0322	Dear friends, please be quiet.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit01spe0057par0323	I'll give you your special opinion, and I'll give you my opinion. That's our objection. Oh, and I'll tell you, there's no more of that death-ordnance appeal.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit01spe0058par0326	Complete it, Mr. Rich. Here you go.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit01spe0057par0328	Mr. President, these were one of the methods of IRA-based terrorism, especially in Ireland.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit01spe0059par0329	Palestine is still going on.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit01spe0058par0330	Mr. Kaya...
tbmm-2020-04-07sit01spe0057par0331	I know Palestine well. These people had a hard time in prison.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit01spe0058par0333	You address the General Assembly, Mr. Rich.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit01spe0057par0334	Burned, burned prisoners for their own cause. That's why we don't want anyone going on a death fast, never, not a friend, and each of us trying to convince them to give it up. In the process, we had many conversations with Filiz Kerestecioğlu Hanım. In that sense, I would like to say that we always regret the loss of a person's life, but at the end of the day, it's a matter of choice to come here, and from here, you can make your criticism of our Minister, but you also have to admit that he has a style problem.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit01spe0058par0336	Let's finish it.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit01spe0057par0337	One last sentence.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit01spe0060par0338	Ask the man who killed Helin Dividek.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit01spe0058par0339	Guys, please...
tbmm-2020-04-07sit01spe0057par0340	You're the ones with the killing problem. Who slaughters people...
tbmm-2020-04-07sit01spe0058par0341	Mr. Rich, you address the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit01spe0057par0342	Then there will be no interruption, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit01spe0058par0344	Dear friends, please...
tbmm-2020-04-07sit01spe0057par0345	You can't just say things and leave the answer lying around, and I can't stand it. In that sense, the Minister said that the Group Comment would reveal its own truth. Group Comment -- what you're defending -- is a group that praises the judge of this country, the prosecutor, the people who murdered them. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit01spe0061par0349	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-04-07sit01spe0062par0350	Mr. Special, please finish with a brief statement and we'll continue our agenda.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit01spe0061par0352	Mr. President, this is the first time a death fast has been used by Gandhi, a method that the IRA has made widely used in Israeli prisons by the Palestinian Liberation Organization. As a party, we have never seen the hunger strike and the death fast as a proper form of action against the human body, but our role has always been about ending it, but here's the problem -- the situation where I'm going to hand it over to the conscience of Mr. Rich. Süleyman Soylu says that the MP has gone -- he means Ali Candy, there's no one else going -- and we've taken him to his house to die.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit01spe0062par0354	Complete, please, Mr. Special, let's just drop it, please. Here you go.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit01spe0061par0356	The issue there is Suleyman Noble, who, in spite of his hatred and hostility towards the Republican People's Party from the past, is a false and deliberate assassination of reputation, slandering our friend, a situation in need of apology. The public servants who were with him were witnesses, and he urged our friend to stop the fast of death, not as Solomon Nobleman had slandered.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit01spe0062par0357	It's on the record, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit01spe0061par0358	Besides, if you have a concert in a country in 2020, some of the people watching that concert are going to commit crimes, and it's not in modern democracy to defend the canceling of the concert, you can't have such a preventive service, you can't have a preventive effort. If there's a concert, if there's a crime, the authorities do their duty.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit01spe0062par0360	Complete, Mr. Special, let's finish. Please, dear friends, let's finish with a sentence.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit01spe0063par0361	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-04-07sit01spe0062par0362	Mr. Rich, I promise you, you finish it with one sentence, and we'll be done with it.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit01spe0064par0363	Mr. President, crime is personal, it happens after a crime is committed, it's not the democratic state mind to try and prevent it before it's committed. The crime is personal, and the reed, and the word, and the spring of his life, cannot be Helin. Helin was killed by the DHKP-C organization and by Süleyman Nobleman. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit01spe0065par0365	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-04-07sit01spe0066par0366	Here you go, Mr. Rich. So, please, just get it over with, and let's get on with our agenda.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit01spe0065par0369	Mr. President, very briefly... Now, I'd like to point out that, of course, crime is personal, but no one can say what happens at these concerts isn't a crime. I'm telling you what's been done so far, it's in the records. I went to his house on the day of Selim Kiraz's death. I've seen his parents, I've seen his wife, I've seen the state they've been in, what a pain they've been in, and look, they're in court. Before he died, there were allegations that the Group Comment had been heard. Now, when you look at it like this, you can't say that none of this ever happened. I'm talking about the case, not the future, and what are you offering? He should've offered it to a group of people who act like this, and they should've given a concert. You get your concert done, we don't do it.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit01spe0066par0373	Complete.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit01spe0065par0374	You ask him, you make him do it, we don't make him do it. In that sense, our friends are considered murderers. We deny that, too. If he decides to die here, his name is the fast of death, he's the one who decides to die.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit01spe0066par0377	Quiet, dear friends.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit01spe0065par0378	He's the one who decides to die, the one who reveals that will. Each man is responsible for his own actions, and no one should blame others. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit01spe0066par0381	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I also stated this morning that I would interrupt the merger at certain intervals, because it is needed. It's both for airing the living room and for a healthy breath of air for you. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit02spe0066par0001	Dear MPs, I am opening the Second Session of the 78th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. THE Good PARTI Group has a proposal given according to the 19th Amendment of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the Council of Counsellors cannot meet on Tuesday 7/4/2020 (now), I respectfully submit the following proposal of our group to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Civil Code. In order to facilitate the accessibility of our health centers, increase the number of sick beds and equipment, to create epidemics and quarantine hospitals, and to avoid harm in treating other diseases during the danger of epidemics, all necessary measures were suggested by Group Deputy President and Kopeeli MP Lütfü Turkkan to meet with urgency on Tuesday (7/4/202020) in order to ensure that all necessary measures are implemented, including the resuscitation of our closed public hospitals. On behalf of the PARTI Group, our Eskişehir MP, Mr. Arslan Kabukcuoglu will speak for the reason of the proposal. [[A round of applause from the good parties]] Your time is five minutes, Mr. Shellguy.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit02spe0067par0019	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I have made a pledge as a good PARTI to the group's proposal for the reopening of public hospitals that have been closed during the construction of city hospitals. I salute the High Council. As I begin with my words, I celebrate the blessed Kandili of the world of Islam. The outbreak of Covid-19, which began in China and surrounded the world, continues to be a major threat to the health of our nation. Our health care system has begun to be designed in our country according to the outbreak of coronavirus. Not just the health system, but the social structure is shaped accordingly. Before all hospitals were declared a pandemic hospital, we had hospitals that served patients here, or, in fact, all of the existing healthcare systems were serving them, and they were operating at 70 to 80 percent capacity. Right now, after pandemic hospitals are established, infection specialists are working piece by piece in every hospital. For the time being, they're there to treat and control patients who are corona positive.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit02spe0068par0024	Let's keep it down, guys.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit02spe0067par0025	If these patients are gathered in a hospital in each city, which is to be determined for the time being, and the doctors, if the staff gather here, the staff's health load will be reduced, their experience will increase, and they will be more useful to the patients. Now that all hospitals have been declared a pandemic hospital, ex-patients, classic patients, routine patients have suffered some loss of service. Since all hospitals were declared an infection hospital, a pandemic hospital in the first place, these patients do not want to go to those hospitals for fear of infection, their treatments are failing. For example, a patient who suffers from a memocardic infarction (also a minor pain) is staying at home, and then it leads to more difficult situations to avoid, to repair, to repair. Hospitals are now declared a pandemic hospital, but these are not hospitals full of coronavirus infections. The departure of hospitals at present, certain hospitals in certain cities as pandemic hospitals, and running routine patient services from other hospitals will prevent patients from losing their services and will provide a good service for the patients. This argument is a total lack of organization. City hospitals are huge hospitals that modern hospitalization doesn't agree with; it's hard to heat, clean, light up, hard to access. These hospitals aren't cut out to be an infection hospital. Thousands of people who go to the hospital every day, Covid, who come in positive or Covid, who come in negative, are getting sick from each other, they're getting some kind of infection from the government. At the last point, it's possible that all hospitals will have a coronavirus hospital. The size of the epidemic in our country isn't at this level right now, and hopefully that won't be necessary, and hopefully we won't get to that level. The effort to explain how good city hospitals are, how they meet the need is weak. Public hospitals, which have tens of thousands of beds that have been thrown out, as well as public hospitals and military hospitals in addition to that, would have done a great deal of damage. We know that none of the equipment, the structure of these hospitals, was interfered with, and the staff walked away. Some of them are still protected by beds and tools. Friends, what needs to be done to get these hospitals into service is to open the door and admit patients there. These former public hospitals are in the centers where citizens can easily access them. These hospitals are rotten, they're wrecked. Such rhetoric is to handle these hospitals. During the outbreak, a citizen needs these hospitals urgently. When you're building hospitals in airports, when you're trying to set up field hospitals, it's a comedy when you're planning to do that, when you don't have the current public hospitals in the service.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit02spe0069par0031	Complete.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit02spe0067par0032	AS A GOOD PARTI, we demand that Parliament investigate all necessary measures, including the re-opening of our closed public hospitals, and implementing them immediately, in order to prevent the creation of disease-fighting and quarantine hospitals, in order to prevent the treatment of other diseases during the time of the epidemic. Yours truly.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit02spe0069par0035	Our friends Kaves, after the speaker, please clear the podium. Dear friends, after every speaker, we're going through a cleanup procedure. Masks on, but contact, maximum caution. My dear friends, on behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, who now want to speak on the basis of the proposal, Mr. Gülstan Kılıç Koçyigit. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is three minutes, Mr. Coach.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit02spe0070par0040	Thank you, Mr. President. And I would like to begin by remembering Helin Dividek, who died on the 288th day of the fast of death. Together, we as Parliament have failed to survive Helin, but we can keep Ibrahim Gökçek and Mustafa Koçak alive. In that sense, I invite the House to take action for Mustafa and Ibrahim and take a stand for life. Dear friends, it's the day of the corona, the whole world is dealing with the corona, and we see that the corona is actually doing impossible damage to human history every day. In one way, as we confront the system that we live in, as we reveal the distortion of capitalism, we see once again how the nation's state structure we live in is not enough in these epidemics, and how each state is left to its own destiny, and how the peoples of every state are abandoned to its own fate. Now, what was to be done first in our country? The Ministry of Health had to explain its action plan to fight national pandemic very quickly. Such an action plan has not yet been announced. A Science Council was created. That was a very right and proper decision, but every recommendation from the Science Board, unfortunately, I know, hangs out with the board, and I know that the institution doesn't take the necessary measures. Why don't they take these precautions? Because they want production to increase, because they want the economy to spin in times of crisis, because they say, let the bosses win, the workers' lives don't matter. That's actually true of healthcare workers right now. I've made it very clear from this bench that a few things need to be done very quickly. The first is to test health workers, municipal workers, and those who work in mandatory services, very common tests, and the results of these tests must be explained. Secondly, the tests should increase the number of labs running; the protective equipment problem must be resolved very quickly. The Ministry of Health, in its own words, said 601 health workers are sick. We know that many of these health workers, although they are actually sick, are working even though they are from Covid. Third, work schedules need to be lowered. Twenty-four hours of work is deliberately killing people in an epidemic like this. This is unacceptable. It must be a six-hour shift, and it must be provided to health workers for the rest of the work. The additional payment must be paid to all without distinction. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm completing it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit02spe0071par0050	Go ahead, go ahead.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit02spe0070par0051	Thank you. So it's unacceptable that the additional payment to the physician, paid to the nurse, should not be paid to the assistant health care provider, ambulance driver, and the friend who collects the garbage there. This has got to get in the way of it somehow, dear friends. What else is there to do? Other than that, you need to listen very quickly to the scientific board's suggestions. So the sabbatical must be fast-lived. Look, at night the Ministry makes a suggestion, the President comes out, makes a statement, and the next day we see that statement being drilled with a sentence. Why? For one reason: so production doesn't stop. Now over 65, not under 20, but the entire community is at risk, and it's now in the hands of political power to eliminate the risk of all of it, but unfortunately, it doesn't. The public faces the threat of mass death. We're warning you from here, from this stand one more time. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit02spe0072par0057	On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Balıkesir MP, Mr. Fikret Şahin, who wants to speak on the proposal. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is three minutes, Mr. Hawk.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit02spe0073par0060	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your grand delegation. Today I congratulate Berat Kandili, the Berat Kandili of our entire nation. I hope we get out of this plague as soon as possible. Again, I ask for God's mercy on our citizens who have lost their lives, and I ask for God's mercy on Helin Korek, and I pray for immediate healing for our citizens who continue their treatments. Yes, as all over the world in our country, our health workers continue to fight this pandemic with limited resources at the expense of their lives, while we are using the evidence of government officials turning this epidemic into an opportunity to cover up public damage and corruption over city hospitals. How would we deal with this epidemic if it weren't for these city hospitals? Since you were so confident in city hospitals... you had to reopen the Tahir Burak Hospital where you closed the intelligence you had to open the city hospital... and quarantined the Turkish citizens we evacuated from China. The fact that you had to reopen this even though you had to open Tahir Burak Hospital, the Intelligence Hospital, is a sign of how wrong it is to set up a city hospital. Even though we've repeatedly said that we should separate hospitals from the moment the outbreak began, you can't separate hospitals and hospitals that chronic patients will apply for because of hospitals like this that you've built under one huge roof. Beyond that, the Ministry still can't explain the cost of these city hospitals. Look, in front of me, I've come with a question proposal. In November, I ask the Minister of Health what are the monthly rent and service costs of these city hospitals? The health minister's answer to me is: You can learn from the Ministry of Finance. I ask the Minister of Finance, and the Minister of Finance tells me that the Ministry of Health will give me the answer. Here's where you come in, where you're at in the city hospitals, and you're admitting it with the official numbers you're giving. You can make these hospitals at the cost of a year's rent and service you've paid for these hospitals. So you're going to build the hospital at the price of one year's rent and service, while you, unfortunately, have been paying these hospitals for 25 years. In 2017, these city hospitals were opened for the first time. If you didn't prefer the model of city hospitals, you would have made these hospitals in a classic state budget, we would now have at least two or three times the amount of city hospitals, and we would have had an intensive care bed.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit02spe0074par0067	Complete, Mr. Hawk.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit02spe0073par0068	Now, look, you're in trouble, you have to reopen the hospitals you've closed. Sir, here you are, trying to make Ataturk Airport a hospital. So these city hospitals aren't the right way to invest, and there's tremendous public damage and corruption. Again, sir, I'd like to say this from here. You people always say, in your mouth, unity and unity, but unfortunately, your president calls the Republican People's Party, the main opposition party, a challenge. So I want to say that this is very wrong. The Republican People's Party is the main reason for the existence of this great roof. This is the uniting power of Turkey. I want to say that I absolutely refused. And again, look, thanks to this epidemic, we've seen what a freaking management system this single-man administration system you've brought in. In times of disaster like this epidemic, the president of genius... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] We're almost there, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit02spe0075par0072	Well, salute, Mr. Hawk.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit02spe0073par0073	The presidential system that we're used to... look, what's the point of separating the leaders together, putting all the institutions together and fighting this collectively? It doesn't make any sense. Look, there's a lot that this epidemic has taught us, of course we'll discuss it later, but come, turn this way, this wrong, these city hospitals, turn this wrong. First, turn the payments of these city hospitals into Turkish liras and then nationalize them and cost our citizens, our people. I salute you all.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit02spe0075par0076	On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, Mr. Mustafa Esgin is our MP. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is three minutes, Mr. Esgin.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit02spe0076par0079	Mr. President, before I begin my words, I pray that mercy, forgiveness, and purity of the night of Berat be blessed, our country, our nation, and all mankind be cleansed and purified. Dear friends, Turkey is steadfast in its fight over the outbreak of the coronavirus, where 1,300,000 people worldwide have been infected and 73,000 people have lost their lives. In our fight against the Coronavirus, our hospitals have no problems with diagnosis and treatment. As our President, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, stated, we stand firm in both preparation and intervention during this period in which even the world's most advanced countries have had a very serious problem. Turkey, along with its 18-year-old AK PARTI power, is also experiencing the most efficient period in the history of the republic in health investments, as in all areas. In just 17 years, we have increased the number of hospital and other bed treatment institutions from 2,600 to 5,500. By increasing the total number of our hospitals by three times, we increased the total number of beds to 240 thousand, by raising the number of qualified beds by 20 times, by increasing the number of intensive care beds by 20 times more than 40,000. We've raised our number of doctors from 92 thousand to 161,000 and the total number of health workers from 378 thousand to 1 million 25. Our health minister, Mr. Fahrettin Husband, has recently announced that we are hiring 32,000 health workers in the process. IN THE early years of our EC PARTY rule, our health infrastructure was greatly needed to strengthen. While our current hospitals had an average age of 49, many of them suffered from earthquake strengthening and functionally failing. Today, we have reduced the average age of our hospitals from 49 to 13. Look, on the one hand, we're fighting the coronavirus, which is significantly affecting the world, while we're continuing our health investments and services. Last week, we completed the first stage of Okmeydanı Education and Research Hospital and named after our first health martyr, Professor Dr. Cemil Taşçıoğlu. We open our Two-City Hospital on April 20th through connections. In a short time, we are opening up a total of 2,000-bed epidemic hospitals in Yeşilköy and Sandzaktepe. In the last 17 years, we have launched a total of 68 health investments -- 26 of which are hospital investments. See, in the group research motion, the Bursa State Hospital -- which is a hospital that I proudly serve -- was in a state hospital that had lost its physical life, and we, yes, took 2020 into the program, as modern as the Homeland Hospital...
tbmm-2020-04-07sit02spe0077par0085	Complete, Mr. Esgin.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit02spe0076par0086	I'm completing it, Mr. President. Yeah, it's the first name for Homeland Hospital. In 1947, when the central government doesn't have a budget, opening the country's hospital by means of a formal collection of money will again be granted to the AK PARTI power, dear friends. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Dear MPs, as the EC PARTI, we will continue to do things that will win the approval of Hakk, and the public under the leadership of our President Recep Tayyip Erdogan. I pray for the mercy of the Lord God to our citizens who have died of the plague, and for the immediate healing of our patients who are in treatment. In combating the Coronavirus, with determination and sacrifice, I would like to thank all of our health workers day and night under the roof of our Veteran Assembly once again. I salute you all.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit02spe0078par0093	I submit the proposal to your votes: Those who don't agree... The proposal was not accepted. Mr. Eronat, you have just stated that you wish to speak with the authorities in Diyarbakır to make a statement regarding the issues expressed in Diyarbakır. I'll give you my word right away, and before long, please, I'd appreciate it if you'd give me your information on this matter.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit02spe0079par0097	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, a Group Vice President has just said that there have been 500 tests done in Diyarbakır, and I have made a point that the number is few. In my meeting with Diyarbakır, I was informed that if patients with fever, cough and respiratory distress applied to the hospital, they would take a CT and test, that our number of cases were relatively low, that 28 people were discharged, that six were in intensive care, and that there were no patients connected to the machine, and that Diyarbakır was 500 daily test capacity, and that 500 people could be tested a day if they were requested at the Gazi Yasargil Education and Research Hospital and Dicle University Hospital. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit02spe0080par0100	Okay, thank you. Mr. Cakirözer, you had a request, so let's take it, and then let's start with our other party's group proposal. Here you go.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit02spe0081par0104	Thank you, Mr. President. The Ministry of Agriculture made a statement yesterday and said that the products they considered strategic products would provide 75 per cent seed support in 21 counties. The crops to be made in October were determined to be wheat, barley, beans, lentils, corn, sunflowers, and chips. Among these 21 counties, many of our provinces, including Eskişehir, are unfortunately absent. In Central Anatolia, perhaps for corn, for sunflowers, for wheat, where the largest production is made is our Eskişehir, but Eskişehir farmers naturally think they are treated as stepchildren when they look at this decision. Therefore, if possible, we would like to expand this seed support to include Eskişehir and the rest of the provinces. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit02spe0082par0110	The People's Democratic Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the Council of Counsellors cannot meet on Tuesday 7/4/2020 (today), I respectfully submit the following proposal of our group to the approval of the General Assembly according to Article 19 of the Civil Code. On 23 March 2020, İzmir MP Sepil Kemalbay Pek Göpegü and his friends offered 5937 rows to secure workers against the contagion of the coronavirus, to ensure high-level measures to protect economic and social security, and the proposal for parliamentary research to the Turkish Grand National Assembly was proposed to meet in the other motions on Tuesday (7/4/202020). Mr. Oya Ersoy is our Istanbul MP, who has asked for the cause of the proposal on behalf of the Peoples' Democratic Party Group. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit02spe0083par0122	Mr. President, I salute the General Assembly. Fighting the Covid-19 epidemic is as much a social struggle as it is a medical struggle. It is the duty of this Assembly to prevent the social destruction of the plague, to take measures to protect the people from its destruction. Three quarters of this country live on its labor. Protecting public health is primarily about protecting workers, but unfortunately the fight against Covid-19 will continue in this country with an open class discrimination. Workers and their families are forced to work face to face with death. On the other hand, the outbreak of Covid-19 causes millions of workers in the world and Turkey to lose their jobs and income. Turkey faces the biggest unemployment disaster in its history. Likewise, recently, the International Labour Organization (ILO) reported that the outbreak would cause about 25 million people worldwide to lose their jobs. Labour and trade organisations have made several statements so far, and each time they have explained what workers need to be done to protect employees' rights. We, as Congress, cannot close our ears to these demands. What they say is that production of goods and services outside of the mandatory and urgent work must be stopped during the outbreak. Workers must be allowed to pay, layoffs must be banned, and all employees must be guaranteed their income. The lives of those who have lost their jobs and income due to quarantine and curfews must be provided by the state. The increasing quarantine period must be implemented, the Istanbul Convention on violence against women and Act 6284 must be used effectively. Houses should be given electricity, water, natural gas without money; consumer loans, credit cards, and bills must be postponed. The minimum pension must be raised to minimum wage. Now, the public is waiting for your protection from here, from the House. Workers, on the one hand, are waiting for an arrangement not to get infected, but to keep their jobs. So, what does this place do? What's the power doing? You're throwing IBANs at people, people who can't pay their rent, people who can't pay their bills, people who have food problems. Look, I'd like to share a few numbers with you, as of April 5, 2020, the National Solidarity Campaign received $1 billion and $70 million. However, in the first two months of this year alone, January and February, the bosses received $3 billion 700 million from the unemployment fund. Do you know how much that number is in 2019? 16 billion liras. Well, can you imagine what you could do with that money? Two million, eight7,000 workers could receive minimum wage support for three months during the outbreak. You'd rather give this money to the bosses than to give it to the workers. They, on the one hand, kick the workers out because of this epidemic, and on the other hand, on social media, they do charity shows with the money of workers in front of the media. Dear lawmakers, another example: curfew was imposed under the age of 20, which was lifted the very next day, and employees between the ages of 18 and 20 were exempted from the ban. This is not an exemption, this arrangement is called an obligation to be sick, it is an obligation to carry a virus to its family. I ask: Doesn't this country have $5.6 billion to give to 811,000 young employees? Because it costs $5.6 billion when you only pay 811,000 people at minimum wage. Now, there's no one to say there's no source. There's a source, we've counted it many times; there's resources for people you can't run down on contractors, banks. In the first place, use the unemployment benefit Fund for workers; stop paying companies for bridges we haven't crossed, airports we haven't used, hospitals.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit02spe0084par0133	Let's finish it.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit02spe0083par0134	Tax the wealth, not minimum wage. In Turkey, 42 per cent of the total wealth is in the hands of 1 per cent. Pay taxes on the rich instead of looking into the pockets of the people. The workers and families whom you have forced to work in these conditions will pay the ultimate price. But our issue is an epidemic, and the price will not be limited to that alone. Let's set up a research commission to take the necessary measures to save the lives of workers, families, and, therefore, the lives of the people. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit02spe0085par0138	On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Mr. Veli Ağbaba is our Malatya MP. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is three minutes, Mr. Agha.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit02spe0086par0141	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Dear friends, I ask God's mercy to all our citizens who died of the plague, and for those who are sick to be healthy as soon as possible. Dear friends, both the world and Turkey are probably facing the biggest crisis of the last fifty-six years. Of course, what should be done in this crisis, in a crisis like this? Especially those who rule the country should ensure that they will not separate people from what they say -- the unity of the nation, the unity of the nation. Dear friends, President Corona is holding a meeting, the first person to be at the corona meeting, the first institution is not called the Union of Turkish Medical Medicines, the Union of Turkish Pharmaceuticals is not called, the Union of Veterinarians is not called, part of the unions are called, DİSK is not called, KESK is not called, UNIC KAMU-H is not called. Dear friends, put your hand on your conscience and think about whether it's true or not. A meeting without the Turkish Medical Association or the Union of Turkish Pharmaceuticals can be admissible to whom. I mean, what's the point of shutting these people out, what's the point? I'll leave that to your conscience.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit02spe0087par0145	Veterinarians' Association.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit02spe0086par0146	I also told the Veterinarians' Association. Again, my friends, our municipalities have made a donation campaign in the past few weeks, it's been unusually interesting, the Ministry of Internal Affairs has gone, banning this fundraiser, this campaign of solidarity. Yesterday we encountered an incident in Muratpaşa City Hall, dear friends, which is truly amazing. Muratpaşa Municipality opens a donor account so that poor people of the AK PARTI will eat food for the poor food that previously existed in the soup kitchen and the Ministry of Interior decides to close this donation account. Is there such a political morality, such a conscience? And I offer this to your appreciation. Dear friends, Article 83 of the Umumi Hüfzishahaha Act (i.e. What does it say, 76? For those who are around it, it is certain that it is a means of transport of one of the saris and epidemics, and it is said that it is menolated by the execution of the occupational sanitizers by the decision of the parliaments. Who are they? Dear friends, the number of closed barbers, hairdressers, and beauty center employees is 504,000; the number of coffees closed is 71,103; the number of employees is 213,000; the number of workers in the canteens closed in schools and dorms due to quarantine is 150,000. There are 6 million street workers; bagel makers, chestnuts, vendors, not dustcloths. There are women who make a living on daily wages, one million people. There are 500,000 motorized couriers out of work, dear friends.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit02spe0088par0150	Let's finish it.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit02spe0086par0151	Again, there are 533,000 people working in the AVMs, 42,350 restaurant workers, 50,000 of the total 350,000 security guards, 300,000 people going to work day-to-day in a market across Turkey, 150,000 students who have closed schools, 90 thousand people working at 2.850 private education centres, and many other professional owners, but they must be paid for, as in other countries. Stay in the house with these people. It means stay in the house, starve, die. (HPP) So the government has to pay for it. Dear friends, look, from one of the poorest countries in the world, the Congo says the government will pay the bills for two months. Germany, France, Sweden, Norway both guaranteed jobs to their employees and to their owners, and I will not leave any of you hungry. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, I'm finishing up.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit02spe0089par0155	Complete.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit02spe0086par0156	Dear friends, what are we doing? We're opening our hands, asking for money, from a tradesman we're not paying for. Dear friends, look, how many countries are there like us? Lebanese, who declares bankruptcy, collects money, Sri Lanka, where the crisis is not missing, and Iraq, where the war is not missing, collects money. Where do you place Turkey? You put Turkey in the same spot as Iraq, Sri Lanka, Lebanon. Look, you don't give money, you don't support it, and I'm afraid you're asking for money.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit02spe0089par0159	Quiet, dear friends.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit02spe0086par0160	What you're going to do is stop the palace in Ahlat, stop the palace in Marmaris, sell the planes you're riding, and don't starve this poor wretch in these difficult days. I'll tell you something else: don't discriminate. It's a shame, it's a sin.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit02spe0090par0163	You're lying.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit02spe0086par0164	You're the liar.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit02spe0091par0165	This is Mr. Necip Nasir, our Izmir MP, who has asked on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Mr. Nasser, your time is three minutes.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit02spe0092par0168	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group on the advice of the HDP group. First of all, the herald of Ramazanaş, the night of Berat, where God's mercy encompasses the earth and the sky, wishes that our nation, the world of Islam, and all mankind, should be the cause of salvation and good, and I salute the Gazi Assembly. The coronavirus, which emerged in Wuhan, China, on December 12th, soon surrounded the world and was declared a pandemic worldwide by the World Health Organization. Our country has managed and continues to run a very successful process so far, with decisive measures in its time for this global epidemic. In our country, anti-infective policies have been taken seriously in the first place, and the risk has been reduced by implementing it. In addition to these successful health studies, the process requires the implementation of the Economic Stabilisation Shield Package, where studies have been put into practice to ensure that the citizen is not a victim and the lack remains to be carried out. Dear lawmakers, I have a pamphlet on the Economic Stabilisation Shield Package. And since it's going to take me a long time to express it one by one, I'm going to go over some headlines with the suggestion that it won't last. The conditions for short work grants have been facilitated, one of the most effective applications between passive labour force programmes, which allow the worker to not lose his job and support the employer financially during this process. The net amount of payment reached 78 per cent, with the number of applications approaching nearly 70,000 companies, including 1 million employees. Two-thirds of our employees in our businesses, which interrupt or reduce production, will be paid by the state in a manner that does not exceed the minimum wage of their wages. More than 2 million taxpayers, VAT and premium payments have been delayed for six months, and income tax taxpayers are considered to be a strong cause for nearly 2 million of our citizens. The rights holders of unemployment allowance will easily be paid 1.168 lira as an unemployment allowance for the citizens. The provision adopted by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey will provide minimum wage support for close to $7 billion.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit02spe0093par0175	Let's finish it.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit02spe0092par0176	In accordance with Social Aid and Solidarity Act No. 3294 and Law No. 2022, the payment of £2 million to 11,000 in homes is delivered to the residents of our citizens. Compensation period is extended from two months to four months. If our worker has failed to continue working on external factors during this time, he will be able to compensate for it for the next four months, so there will be no loss of wages or loss of labour. The minimum pension for 2020 began to be paid at 1,500 lira. As part of the new coronavirus measures, holiday bonus payments have been moved up, starting to pay off 12 million pensioners on Ramadan Day. Our ministry has issued a manual on measures taken at workplaces as part of the fight against the new type of coronavirus.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit02spe0093par0178	Let's finish it.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit02spe0092par0179	Dear lawmakers, from the very first day of the process, I thank the President and the cabinet and the health workers, who have followed the process with precision, and who have led this struggle very successfully from the very beginning, and I thank you, and I salute the Grand Assembly.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit02spe0093par0181	I submit the proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Mr. Coachyiğit, you have a request, let's take it.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit02spe0094par0185	Thank you. While the whole world is fighting the coronavirus, the AKP continues to seize the will of the Kurdish people. In Corona's day, the elected co-chairs of the mayors, city council members, are unfairly, unlawfully removed from their duties. Even during the day of the corona, the AKP has established an unprecedented anti-enemy policy against Kurdish people and HDP. In the last two weeks, seven of our city council members have been suspended by the Ministry of Interior. Three of our elected city council members are Muş central, two of Varto, one of Blurk, and one of Malazgirt. These friends of ours were chosen by the will and vote of the people of Mush. I'd like to say that we condemn this coup against the will of the people and that we don't recognize this decision. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit02spe0095par0191	Dear MPs, the Republican People's Party Group has a proposal for the 19th Amendment. I'll have the proposal read and processed, and I'll put it to your votes: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the Council of Counsellors cannot meet on Tuesday 7/4/2020 (today), I respectfully submit the following proposal of our group to the approval of the General Assembly according to Article 19 of the Civil Code. It has been suggested that the meeting of the main parliamentary inquiry proposal (10/2699) on the General Assembly's 7/4/202020 Tuesday (now) meeting of the General Assembly's 7/4/2020) proposal, which is intended to determine the impacts of the new type coronavirus on work and labour health. To explain the motive of the proposal, on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, our İzmir MP, Mr Selin Sayek Böke. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit02spe0096par0203	First of all, I ask God's mercy, his condolences, and his patience to all those who have lost their lives because of the coronavirus epidemic. Once again, I express my gratitude to all workers in critical sectors, especially health workers, who are constantly fighting the virus as a front-frontal pass to the community, by disregarding their own life in the conditions of the plague. Dear friends, we're facing heavy public health, there's a crisis, all decisions have to focus on getting through this health problem with minimal human damage. In a crisis like this, the priority should be to keep more people alive, and any other economic outcome should be considered secondary. The public's physical health must be maintained, but the actions that will protect the public's mental health should be taken immediately, without delay, preventing business or unemployment anxiety. Unfortunately, in our country, our number of cases and casualties are increasing daily. If human concerns had been raised from the very first moment, rather than economic and political concerns, if the state had taken over the economic bill as it was, the people would have been protected. If scientists and international experiences had been taken seriously, we would have been in a much better place today. If the first day, instead of advising them to stay at home, the crisis would not have happened at this point. If from the very first day, our health care system had improved by taking steps to repair its shortcomings, let the field hospitals form. If our mayors who have been tearing up had rested earlier, steps were taken early to protect the health of our struggling medics, and the basic rights of the medics had been preserved today, everything would have been very different. If only the mayors of the party state had been interviewed, not just by the mayors, but by all the mayors representing all the people, if all the boards had been invited, and all the health organizations and trade unions had been invited, and the Science Board could have been a decision-making board like Robert Koch Institute in Germany today, things would have been very different. Dear friends, the government is trying to do three things at once: don't spread the plague. The economy wants to continue as it is, while it is trying to manage political perception. On the one hand, stay in the house. He forbids barbecues and picnics, and on the other hand, he forces millions of workers to go to work every day with public transportation to work in factories, construction, or mines. No barbecue, but it's mandatory to work to the death. On the one hand, we need resources. He says, on the other hand, he's blocking relief campaigns from municipalities that are trusted by the public. No solidarity is allowed, but the party government is required to cut workers' wages. On the other hand, the Constitution says that we are a social state. On the other hand, it condemns workers to lose their rights at the door of their homes where there is no job and worker. Working for millions of workers between 18 and 64 years of age is mandatory, but it's not allowed to demand or even speak to the government because it's a duty to work and work safety. First of all, as an economist, I want to make a strong point: endangering the lives of the people in the short term so that the economy doesn't stop, will bring a great burden of conscience in the middle and long term, a very heavy health burden, and it will also bring down the economy. If the right-based steps aren't taken today, tomorrow will be harder than today. The safety of workers and workers is a right. It's a right to make a decent profit. It's a right to work with health. Health and education are rights. Everything that is right has to be presented by the government. The steps need to be taken are clear. It must be removed from the obligation to go to work immediately, except in urgent and mandatory areas and given job security to the public. The social government must be activated with all its tools, and people should be able to stay at home without worry. The law of violence, which protects health workers who are working to meet basic and mandatory needs, must be removed from the Parliament today.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit02spe0097par0207	Let's finish it.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit02spe0096par0208	Public employees, municipal employees, grocery clerks, grocery stores, couriers running from house to house, and steps must be taken to protect the safety of jobs and workers in order to protect millions of such workers. We have to take the steps of a more publicist, more publicist, more democratic, more supportive future right now. We have to start with the council. We have to raise it with the public. We don't have to waste time. I salute you all, and wish everyone a healthy and uncorona-free day.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit02spe0097par0211	On behalf of the Good PARTY Group, Mr. Huseyin Orris, who wants a word on the proposal. [[A round of applause from the good parties]] Your time is three minutes.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit02spe0098par0214	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the People's Party Group on behalf of the Good Party Group. I salute the General Assembly. Dear lawmakers, on January 30, 2020, when the outbreak of 649 deaths occurred in our country today, unfortunately, no country is free of the risk of a virus that can be airbornely transmitted from human to human during a time when transport technologies and density have increased with the signature of our Group Vice President, Mr. Lütfü Turkkan. Therefore, the measures necessary to prevent a possible deadly outbreak in Turkey must be immediately taken. We have submitted a motion to investigate. I'm afraid our request for this investigation on January 30th was rejected here. Again, on February 11th, Mr. Coral Akşener, in his speech at the PARTI group meeting, issued warnings to those who run the country, pointing to the corona plague that has taken over the world, and do we have a karantina headquarters? Is there a stockpile of masks, IVs, drugs? In what areas, tent hospitals, field hospitals, do they have plans? Today, April 7th, these questions of Mr. Akshener were asked exactly two months ago. Dear friends, I'm afraid we're learning the answers today. Dear friends, taking precautions, working before disaster comes, preparing for the worst-case scenario. AS A GOOD PARTY, we submitted eight laws containing economic measures to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey on March 31st. In our proposals, let our citizens who work at minimum wage be exempted from income tax; let the loans and debts to the Institution of Homes be delayed for a year without interest; let the provision of short labour allowance be extended; let the number of bonuses be reduced from 450 days to 150 days; let the number of days be reduced by relevant ministries; let electricity, natural gas and water bill consumption be reduced by electricity invoices; let the payment of security fee for bridges and highways be cut off until the pandem process passes; let the payment be paid by the contractor; let the price of electricity, natural gas and water bill consumption be reduced by 1/7/2020; let the amount of electricity invoice be cut off by electricity invoices; let electronics be suspended; let the exchange of electricity be cut off from all the markets; let the price be cut down by the price of the markets; let's be suspended by 1 per cent; let the price of all of the markets be reduced; let's be reduced by 1 percent.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit02spe0099par0219	Let's finish it.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit02spe0098par0220	And we expect your support in these legal proposals. Dear friends, the time is short, and finally, I want to say that we have to join hands with the nation and take the necessary measures and deal with it by following the warnings of the great experts, the authorities, and hopefully, I have faith in it, but at this point, we must act with the common mind. From here, I speak to my ruling friends, my friends in power: At least in this difficult time, I ask you to give up the habit of covering our ears with warnings, and take our suggestions seriously. With these thoughts and feelings, I express our support for the motion to investigate, and I salute you all with my deepest respect.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit02spe0100par0224	On behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, our Adana MP, Mr. Tulay Hatim Sons of Oruç, who wants to make a statement on the proposal. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is three minutes, Mr. Fast.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit02spe0101par0227	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, we hope that this pandemic process will be the least damaged by the people of Turkey and the people of all the world. The Coronavirus has shown us that capitalism, overprofit and production based on this, slaughters humanity, nature, and now this virus is one of its clear indicators; it is also economic and political crisis, not a single medical problem or a health problem. The capital arrangement has been under heavy economic crisis since 2008. With this coronavirus, there's really a lot of things that are going to fall apart, and it's going to be a huge change and transformation that's waiting for us. In the 14th century, similar transformations and transformations had caused a plague on the continent of Europe, and we are now experiencing a similar process. And will the government, who is the bearer of capital order and its patronage, see if it sees that if it had been invested in the health system, instead of domestic wasteful investments, weapons, tanks, cannons, crafts, side-by-side investments, would the health system now have collapsed like a sand castle? This system, which normally pays the bill of the capital crisis to the worker, to the worker, and these powers are now trying to make the worker, the worker, pay for the pandemic process. Today we have to make this call: the worker will go to work, the soldier will continue to fight, but stay home, Turkey. The basic production, of course, will not stop, life will continue, but there should be a shift system set up there, and really production should be stopped in other ways. Likewise, in Syria, Iraq, Libya, the fighting soldier must return; it is a young and healthy population; it must participate in production, it must work the land, it must be able to participate in production in factories. We're going through a period where we need peace and production. Today, the United Nations -- 10 articles -- is being turned around and repeated, where the President has not dropped a word. And here we have to see that the capital that doesn't pledge allegiance to one man's regime is either that you're my ally in the days of the coronavirus, or you're my ally, or I'll take your capital, my eye, my tears, my pity. And here we see again how this power is trying to take advantage of the corona virus. I'd like to make a point of saying that in these circumstances, the food crisis is inevitable. The supply chain has begun to stumble.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit02spe0102par0235	Let's finish it.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit02spe0101par0236	The president says in his statements, we've got the stocks, the supply chain is running. But the world knows it doesn't reflect the truth. I don't think anyone's ever noticed how fast the markets have price hikes and yet an important portion of the shelves are empty. As always, agriculture is very important in pandemic times. We've made a lot of emphasis on this platform on this country's agricultural resources, and we're saying once again that whatever was taken from the farmer, from the ground, must be returned or Turkey will starve. There has to be a detailed plan on this matter. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit02spe0103par0240	On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, Mr. Halil Etmez, who wants a word on the proposal. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is three minutes.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit02spe0104par0243	Mr. President, I have received a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, and I salute our Veteran Assembly. First of all, I congratulate our beloved nation of Berat Kandili. I wish God's mercy to our citizens who died because of Covid-19, and to our patients under treatment. Dear MPs, the necessary measures under the leadership of our President Recep Tayyip Erdogan have been taken from the very first moment. The Science Board was formed by our Ministry of Health on January 10th, and the recommendations made by the Science Council were quickly implemented. In order to overcome this crisis facing humanity, every member of our government and our beloved nation is making sacrifices. Dear lawmakers, as in other areas in working life, important measures have been taken to protect the health of our employers and workers. Important steps have been taken for business and occupational health by following the advice provided by the Science Council. In this scope, the 14-person consultation board, which includes experts and academics in its field, was first shared with the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Services, with a study directive of 16 articles, including measuring the fire of employees, running from home to home, restricting visits to workplaces, not using equipment as a partner. A total of 45,000 occupational safety specialists, workplace physicians, and workplace nurses serving in the field have been mobilized. Controls have been carried out in the cities of Ankara, Izmir, Bursa, Kobeeli, Manisa, Adana, Tekirdağ and Kayseri, where the production, import and sale of personal protective equipment used as an epidemic. Precious lawmakers have started implementing flexible work methods, such as working in the private sector and public institutions and private sectors under the measures taken, and additional funding for our enterprises has been introduced to four months in compensation to provide short labour allowances for our businesses, two months in order to ensure continuity of employment, to support our minimum wage, 7 billion dollars in wages for all companies affected by the epidemic, to provide continued loans to all companies, to provide additional financing for all companies if necessary, to distribute free masks to all of our employees and citizens. Dear lawmakers, we are all fighting a sneaky enemy that threatens the future of our country, the lives of our nation. We can defeat this enemy by bonding with each other.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit02spe0105par0250	Let's finish it.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit02spe0104par0251	In the process, I thank and applaud our generous tradesman, our industry and workers, who continue our production. Stay at home. We will overcome this plague as we have fought together, as our citizens have obeyed our calls. I thank you again, and I salute you all, to our government, our Ministry of Health, and our health workers, who have fought in this struggle.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit02spe0105par0254	I submit the Republican People's Party Group's proposal to your votes: Those who don't agree... The proposal was not accepted. Dear MPs, the Justice and Development Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and vote on. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the Council of Counsellors cannot meet on Tuesday 7/4/2020 (today), I would like to submit the following proposal to the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Civil Code. AK PARTY Group Vice President The agenda of Law Proposal 207, which was distributed by pressure, was not 48 hours later: "The Law Proposals and Other Affairs From Commissions are to be taken into the first place, and the order of other tasks is to be considered according to this. On Tuesday, April 7, 2020 (today) until the completion of the first chapter talks of Law Proposal No. 207; On Wednesday (April 8, 2020), the meeting of the Law Proposal 207 was completed; On Wednesday (April 8, 2020) the meeting of Law Proposal 207 was completed on Thursday (April 9, 2020), in case the talks of the Law Proposal No. 207 were not completed; On Thursday (April 9, 2020) it is Friday, April 10, 2020, on Friday (April 10th 2020), except on weekdays, when talks of Law Proposal 207 cannot be completed. The meeting at 00 is not discussed in this combination of audit issues, and the agenda is "The Law Offers and Other Jobs From Commissions shall be discussed and will continue to work until the meeting of Law Proposal number 207, The Law Proposal of 207 rows shall be considered the basic law according to Article 91, and its divisions shall be as follows: It's recommended. On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, Mr. Ramadan Can is our representative.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit02spe0106par0274	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. First of all, I congratulate the Berat Kandili of the Islamic world, and I wish all mankind to be acquitted of the Islamic world. Mr. President, under our recommendation, the high-value lawmakers are following the public order, which is 207 rows, Mr. Cahit Özkan, Vice President of the Nationalist Movement Party, Mohammed Levent Bulbül and AK PARTI MP Ali Özkaya and his friends have been making changes in the Penal Code and Execution Act, which has been under way for nearly six months, and this law proposal has been under way for seven months. We offer the approval of the General Assembly that this law proposal, which has taken up 207 rows of public interest, should be brought to the top of the agenda in less than 48 hours. We also plan to continue negotiations with this bill today, tomorrow and Thursday. If we can't finish this bill on Thursday at 2:00 p.m. on Friday, I welcome you all back to the General Assembly, where the General Assembly meets at the meeting of this proposal of the law.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit02spe0107par0278	On behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, İstanbul MP Hakkı Saruhan Oluç has asked for a statement on the proposal. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is three minutes, Mr. Oluç.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit02spe0108par0281	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmans, yes, it's a very important matter to discuss the execution law. Two reasons: The execution law has long been a subject of debate - a subject of great inequality, great injustices. But the current debate should not have been about eliminating the inequality and injustices of the execution law now. Why should we talk about the death penalty law now? There's a motive. Why? Because the prisons currently have the largest hailing rate in Turkey's history; there are 294,000 people, according to 2020 data from the Ministry of Justice, and there are some wards in prisons that reach 20, 30, 40 people, even 100 people. Therefore, because of an epidemic of coronavirus, people are standing there unsecured. Prisoners and convicts must be evacuated immediately for this overwhelming reason, that was the main argument. But the government did opportunism, instead of discussing it, brought up the amendment to the execution law and reached an impassable point. But now it's important, we're going to discuss it, so as the People's Democratic Party, we're going to continue this discussion in the most serious way so that people, prisoners and prisoners, elderly and sick prisoners can not be released as soon as possible, so that they don't face the threat of the coronavirus. But let us say that all our rights from the Civil Law will be used in this discussion. So you've come to us with this suggestion that we can work on Friday as if we were to show death and settle for malaria. Yes, we support your proposal, let's work on Friday, work on Saturday and Sunday if we have to, as long as we can find out the result of the healthy evacuation of the people in prisons. Otherwise, if this law goes the way it does, which it seems -- no steps are taken. All negotiations by opposition parties in both the Commission and the Commission have been rejected by the ruling party; it has been drawn with a pen; the ruling party has pushed all the proposals in reverse. If you're going to do it this way, let's just say that this amendment to the execution law is the law of the government to bring forgiveness to its own followers in prison. So we're going to discuss this law using all of our Civil Code rights, and we're going to do everything in our power to make sure that everyone, the prisoners and the prisoners, can benefit from it in the best possible way. Thank you for listening.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit02spe0109par0285	Mr. President, may I have a word? May I have a word, a word?
tbmm-2020-04-07sit02spe0110par0286	Here you go, Mr. Rich.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit02spe0109par0289	Mr. President, thank you very much. Now, of course, everyone has their own arguments, but I'm sure it's imperative that I answer this, because Mr. Deputy Director of the Group used the same statement in his opening statement: to do it for his followers. Now, that's an expression that we can't bear. We're in...
tbmm-2020-04-07sit02spe0110par0292	Guys, let's be quiet, please, just a second.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit02spe0109par0293	Nothing... we strongly deny it. What's done is happening in public, very publicly. I find it a little easy to describe what is done in terms of what crimes, when it is very clear and clear, in the same mind. Please explain your thesis through other arguments. I reject that statement on behalf of my group. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit02spe0110par0296	Dear Oluç...
tbmm-2020-04-07sit02spe0111par0298	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmans, yes, I have used that word, and we will continue to use it because we believe that the government is actually having this argument for its own followers and that it has brought up this plea of execution law. Why? If you say: Look who can't benefit from this amendment to the Execution Act, the change from your proposal.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit02spe0112par0301	PKK, PKK.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit02spe0113par0302	Terrorists can't take advantage.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit02spe0114par0303	Dear friends, let's be quiet.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit02spe0115par0304	No, no, it's not like that. I don't give a damn about your yelling, that's not gonna happen.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit02spe0114par0306	Mr. Oluç, you address the General Assembly. My dear friends, why are you raising your voices?
tbmm-2020-04-07sit02spe0115par0308	We're going to have this discussion, no matter how loud you scream, we're going to have this discussion.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit02spe0114par0309	We're just discussing the group proposal, dear friends.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit02spe0115par0310	Who can't benefit from this amendment to the execution law? Those who can't be used are your opponents, critics of your power, journalists, politicians, elected mayors, deputies, academics.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit02spe0114par0313	Complete, please, Mr. Oluç.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit02spe0115par0314	Sir, just a minute... I'll complete it.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit02spe0114par0315	Guys, we're gonna have these arguments later.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit02spe0115par0316	You shut them up. That's not gonna happen.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit02spe0114par0317	Here, finish it.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit02spe0115par0318	So we're going to have this discussion. You come here with an offer that doesn't benefit those who oppose your authority, and why do you mind us saying so? We'll tell him. You've only brought this amendment to the execution law to your own followers to make amends for your own promises, nothing more.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit02spe0116par0319	Mr. President, then they only want their own followers? What kind of language is that?
tbmm-2020-04-07sit02spe0117par0320	No, we want it for everyone, for everyone.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit02spe0116par0321	No, we deny it. If they say so, we'll deny it to the end. This can't be happening. And so will we.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit02spe0118par0322	Dear friends, let's calm down, now we're discussing the group proposal. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Deputy Director of the Group, Manisa MP Mr. Free Special. Guys, let's be quiet, please. You've got group presidents, we promise everyone. I'm asking you to calm down. Here you go, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit02spe0119par0330	Mr. President, I salute you all on behalf of myself and the Republican People's Party Group. We're discussing the public opinion of the Justice and Development Party's proposal for the 1st amendment to the nine laws associated with the reduction of execution. Since 2011, the Republican People's Party Group's Watch and Review Commission has served in an important period -- Turkey has visited prisons, more than 250/5 visits to prisons. From time to time, we tried to explain a problem in Turkey's execution regime and the necessity of an intervention, with the form of execution, taking turns sleeping, eating in shifts, even breathing in shifts. This was on the agenda of the National Movement Party before the June 24th, 2018 elections, on June 23, 2019, before Istanbul's unlawful reelection, was on the agenda of the President of the Justice and Development Party. In July, when we say, "Let's keep these things to the fullest. " Unfortunately, on July 9th, this Parliament was shut down by ignoring this problem. We said, "Where are you going?" And we're going to talk about it on October 1st. It's called October 1st, it's October 1st, it's not in the execution package. The second execution package couldn't be brought in just because it couldn't be added to the commission -- but it hasn't been discussed yet -- but as long as we can't convince it, a plague, a virus, has forced Parliament to work in these conditions that will threaten it and its own proposed intensive work pace. I'll tell you the last thing I'm going to say: let's not let the families of those who are waiting to get out of here worry about the Republican People's Party, but let's not let the relatives of those who have never been allowed in the past or who have never been allowed to come out of the law be afraid that we will fight against those who are thought guilty, journalists, journalists, academics, lawyers, and those who are not involved in the violence. Not the two-pronged, determined, constructive, resistant, and effective opposition to the state, and those who, together, are armed against the state, walking over the nation with a tank entrusted to them, with an F-16.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit02spe0120par0335	Complete, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit02spe0119par0336	I don't suppose anyone here has anything to say about it, but let's not wait for the execution justice, the authority of the House, the political hatred and the opportunity to put some things into a 70-point bag and say whatever you want to call it. (CHP clapping in rows) Loud and clear. There's going to be a lot of talk here about making a distinction between the people inside the prison to save the Coronavirus prisons, but, well, imagine a newspaper going to prison... Sir, is today's topic of opportunity that the press ad doesn't want to go to a newspaper prison? Or, obviously, look, he's been sentenced to a year for insulting the President, normally suspended, reduced to fines, delayed, but now, let's say 40 percent of them are in jail for five months. Where in prison, for example, is it in the battle of coronavirus, to charge the President with defamation, from those who are in prison for bribery?
tbmm-2020-04-07sit02spe0120par0340	Complete, please, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit02spe0119par0341	Where's the conscience? Where's the mind? New crimes, new sentences, jail for a punishment that doesn't normally take place. Our president is now insulting, slandering the president of a party by exploiting a clause written for the neutral president, and suing those who are suing him when he gets his answer. That understanding is opportunistic.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit02spe0120par0342	Let's finish it.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit02spe0119par0343	And in return, we will fight our battles to the fullest. We look at it positive, we find it inadequate, we find it extremely troubling in terms of coverage. We will contribute to defending the justice of execution and to the right balance of humanism and deterrence, to vote positively on a text that will not harm equality and consciences, not opportunistic, and we will try to evolve into it, our whole struggle will be on it. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit02spe0120par0346	I submit to your votes the group proposal of the Justice and Development Party: Those who don't agree... Motion accepted. Dear MPs, according to Article 37 of the Civil Code, there is a direct motion to be put on the agenda, and I will have it read and processed, and I will submit it to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 2/1133) I demand that my original Law Proposal be brought directly to the agenda under Article 37 of the Civil Code. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, now, it's Mr. Ali Candy, our Istanbul MP, who's asking for a word on the motion. [[Applause from CHP rows]] However, Mr. Sugar, I'm symbolically authorizing my Parliamentary applications, so I'm going to ask you to bow down and remove it immediately. I beg you, please, please let us remove the image, and be careful not to act contrary to the Civil Code, please. [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] Guys, please be quiet, I'm doing what I have to do. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit02spe0121par0360	As much as I take off the apron, I'm going to talk to my doctor's ID, not my proxy ID.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit02spe0120par0361	Sure. Thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit02spe0121par0362	And until there's a law of violence in health, keep this apron on this microphone.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit02spe0120par0364	Guys, let's be quiet, please, one second, one second... One moment, dear friends, let's be quiet. Here you are, Mr. Ali.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit02spe0121par0366	Mr. President, thank you. First of all, I congratulate you on your Berat Kandili. I mean, for three days, we, as the public, applauded the medics, but then three dots, blank. What difference does it make if we don't pass the law of violence in health if we don't applaud with the public? We don't just want to applaud, we want to fulfill our responsibilities. It's World Health Day. On this meaningful day, I want to express my gratitude to the health workers who have sacrificed themselves for the health of the public. Before I begin my speech, I'd like to speak with once again the respect of physicians who have been murdered in the line of duty as a result of an act of violence in health. Again, I'd like to remember Professor Cemil Taşscioğlu, our esteemed teacher in the battle against the coronavirus, and Professor Dr. Feriha Öz, who has again raised thousands of pathologists, with respect, gratitude, and mercy. I hope we don't lose any more lives in this pandemic process, the measures are taken without delay, and the rest will be saved. In October 2018, the Turkish Penal Code Proposal for Changes includes the fact that three to five years of prison sentences are imposed on health care personnel by people who are pressuring, exerting influence, and attempting to influence against law enforcement, who are basically ordering them not to do what they should not do or do what they should not do for health care reasons. In the quality of the crime, it also envisions an increase in punishment, and in return for these crimes, the punishments should not be postponed. For a year and a half, he's been waiting on the commission, and after 45 days in both the Health Commission and the Justice Commission, we used our right to bring this offer to the General Assembly and bring it up on a day when we need it. Two times in two years, the Health Commission and one of them was brought in as the law of violence in health, turned into a law that used non-instruction to the medic, and we tried to make it harmless in the struggle, so think of it as a law of violence in health, but there's a ban on working for a medic. Then, ten days after our extraordinary request for a meeting, we were able to hold a meeting about the coronavirus outbreak, and the Minister briefed us there, and we offered constructive measures that needed to be taken there. Because in this process, we need no more casualties, no more sick people, no more sick people, no more cripples. What did the President of the Health Commission, who no longer passed this Commission and was not called to the Commission's meeting, say after that? He said, "Eat the syrup, nothing will happen, and no one will get sick after March 15th, and there will be no sickness." During this period -- our law for a year and a half -- 20,000 medics have been subjected to violence today, and over the last seven years, 90 thousand medics have been subjected to violence. Between 2005 and 2019, nine of our fellow physicians were killed at the beginning of their duties as they were healing. In this country, these nine physicians are not just a number, these are the values of the country, these are the lives of this country; they're going one by one. In the absence of a law of violence in health, we have lost not only the lives of physicians, but the health of the people, the healthy tomorrows of our country, the healthy future. As a result of the collapse of AKP's health policies, the Vandals are on trial without arrest, and I'll be fine. They continue to resort to all kinds of violence by calling me. Just last week, one person attacked the nurse, the doctor, and then her statement was taken, then released, and then out of the statement, she came back to attack again, and she was released again. So this is the clear confession of how inadequate these laws are, the clear sign here. Since they have not been punished enough, they continue to use violence because they are acquitted. In the coming days, the health workers need a greater challenge, and there is more violence because of this compressed health capacity. So let's do this mission, and let's put this law on the table as soon as possible, get our bill out of here as a law, provide moral support from the House to our medics who are fighting for the public. This is our responsibility in the time of the coronavirus pandemic. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-04-07sit02spe0122par0377	Let's finish it.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit02spe0121par0378	Unfortunately, the AKP has tried to go through this process with only temporary palliative measures, and has not made a comprehensive arrangement for the law of violence in health. In the meantime, we now have 30,217 PCR positive Covid-19 patients in Turkey -- today's announcements will likely increase by 3-4 thousand more -- and we have 649 PCR positive losses. These are just the positives, about this much, unfortunately, but we have patients who don't test positive even though they have a clinic. And when we talked about it 20 days ago, we were in the 45th place in terms of the number of cases in the world, and now we're in the 9th place. During the time of those who died of the Spanish flu, the executives of that day are remembered for the irresponsibility of the executives, so let's not be irresponsible today, and let's get this law out of the way and give the health workers the assurance they deserve. I pay my respects, thank you.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit02spe0123par0383	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-04-07sit02spe0124par0384	Mr. Special, Mr. Beştaş, you have your demands. Mr. Rich, do you have a request?
tbmm-2020-04-07sit02spe0125par0386	Yes, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit02spe0124par0387	Here you go, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit02spe0126par0390	It's a good thing you gave the Deputy Group President this opportunity before the vote. Thank you very much. We will now vote according to the Civil Code of 37. It's what all health workers want, what the Turkish Medical Association wants, what the healthcare organizations want, what the right-wing leftist wants, what we expect is a law proposal that will make them feel safer with all the health workers coming out, and that red book, yes, yes. Otherwise, when you say yes here, this law will not pass as it came, it will come to the agenda. For example, let's say that tomorrow the groups will agree to take the second place on the agenda after the amnesty law. If we take the day to one, tomorrow, we'll sit down after the pardon, we'll discuss the law matter by matter. With all the contributions, but the doctors say yes, we'll discuss a law in every way they want. So here we can say yes, not accept the law offer exactly, but bring it up for discussion, even to the last order of the agenda now, and then to the top of the agenda. So what happens if we say yes here? Parliament has unanimously put violence against the physician on the agenda, has adopted the law on violence against all health workers, will negotiate in the coming days...
tbmm-2020-04-07sit02spe0127par0394	Let's finish it. Please, let's not extend these conversations any longer than I've given them time to process.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit02spe0126par0396	The greater the gesture, the greater the morale. You ask, "What is your request?" They say, "Just make our law, not stamps." The Minister's approach is obvious. There's a historic opportunity. There's an opportunity here not to split up, but to compromise, to raise a hand on such a matter together, and then to applaud the health workers as the entire Assembly, not ourselves. Please don't spare this opportunity from our nation and its heroic health workers. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit02spe0127par0399	Okay. Here you are, Mr. Beştaş.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit02spe0128par0402	Thank you, Mr. President. Yes, I have been promised to express our views as the People's Democratic Party on the proposal of violence in health. Right now, as it's known, because of the corona epidemic, we're all living together on a table of sympathy and support, a much bigger ownership of a significant part of society against health workers than ever before. But the demand of health workers, the Medical Association, the SES, the Workers' Union, and many other institutions is that the law of violence be passed in health. We already have an opportunity. Instead of bringing the ruling party in, adding it to another law, throwing it in another bag, we have a very important opportunity for the General Assembly to do something about the coronavirus epidemic. So we're going to be able to put this on the agenda tomorrow without delay, and first of all, we're going to be able to negotiate with the votes of the General Assembly, and then we're going to have the Civil Code 37 and the continuation.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit02spe0129par0406	Complete, please, Mr. Beştaş.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit02spe0128par0407	In this health, I say we can make a law that can be met by arguing with the law of violence, especially with the parties, the medics, the workers, the doctors, the others, and we're ready to support it. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit02spe0129par0410	Mr. Rich, you're welcome.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit02spe0128par0411	Don't you talk about it! Why don't you show some respect? Shame on you!
tbmm-2020-04-07sit02spe0129par0412	Guys, can we be quiet, please? Just a second, Mr. Rich.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit02spe0128par0414	We say it's raining. They say it's raining. Shame on you! Shame on you! Don't you know anything else?
tbmm-2020-04-07sit02spe0129par0415	Mr. Beştaş, please reciprocalize...
tbmm-2020-04-07sit02spe0128par0416	But Mr. President, there we call violence in health. It's embarrassing.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit02spe0129par0417	I mean, please, please. Why are you doing this, Mr. Beştaş? Let's address the General Assembly, please. Friends, no reciprocity.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit02spe0128par0419	You'll get mad! Don't you know anything else?
tbmm-2020-04-07sit02spe0129par0420	Mr. Beştaş, I beg you...
tbmm-2020-04-07sit02spe0128par0421	That's it, that's the general culture!
tbmm-2020-04-07sit02spe0130par0422	Please, friends, stop arguing.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit02spe0129par0423	Guys, look, this is the group presidents speaking, please.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit02spe0128par0424	It's a shame!
tbmm-2020-04-07sit02spe0129par0425	Here you go, Mr. Rich.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit02spe0131par0427	Mr. President, when Mr. Sugar began his speech, he said: "I want to speak with my doctor's identity. I want to speak as a doctor's mother, as a mother." I have a son, a doctor, and I know from home how difficult it is. I think all of our MPs in the House agree on this. There's no way we've been able to accept these acts of violence against our physicians from the beginning. In that first meeting with our President, the president of all our ministers and the presidents of all the important NGOs of Turkey, there were two things that our Health Minister wanted from us: one of them was to be paid from the highest ceiling in the process because the performance system was working, and the other was to get this law on violence. He's already done the first one, our government, the EC PARTY, let's say, the Council of Ministers has done it, in that sense, thank you. It's an important step. Now, we already have a plan for this, but we want to do it together while we're doing it.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit02spe0132par0431	Please complete it, Mr. Rich.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit02spe0131par0432	We have a way of doing business here, a way of doing business. We want the joint participation of all political parties. And during the day, we've already shared our preparation with our other groups. In that sense, we'd all like to do this together and get it out of here this week as soon as possible. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit02spe0132par0434	Okay. Mr. Akçay, you're welcome.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit02spe0133par0437	Thank you, Mr. President. Now, the issue of violence in health has been on Turkey's agenda for a long time, and it's been brought up and done correctly as part of Parliament's activities, as well as the activities of our lawmakers. With a certain agreement on violence in health, we believe certain arrangements can be made. Mr. Free Private had a sentence in his speech, which now means to put it on the agenda, not to date it. He's right. So not taking it into consideration doesn't mean whether or not there's a compromise within the next time period, so I'm going to put it as an extension of the sentence. Hopefully, this is how we're going to deal with this, and with the party groups, I think we're going to get a certain distance from this event. But if it doesn't get accepted now, then it's probably unclear, as if he's in favor of violence in health. In that way, it's on the agenda. With this concept, we'll make an effort in the next time period. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit02spe0134par0440	Okay, thank you.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit02spe0135par0441	Mr. President, I'd like to give you a quick answer.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit02spe0134par0442	Mr. Special, one sentence...
tbmm-2020-04-07sit02spe0135par0443	Just a minute, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit02spe0134par0444	Wait a minute, so just wrap it up in a minute, please.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit02spe0135par0446	Mr. President, thank you. We have already made an offer to discuss the issue, rather than a political polarisation, rather than a political debate, in an environment of compromise. Forty-five days, the Commission won't take it on the agenda. Today it will be recommended to be brought up directly, and when the day comes, it will be negotiated. There's a draft of the Justice and Development Party, I've seen. It doesn't even cover 20 per cent of the health minister's request. At the request of the Minister of Health, there are small nuances between the Turkish Medical Association and our motion, but the Justice and Development Party calls this bag or the next bag a paragraph, the mountain giving birth to rats, the expectation is in vain. That's why we're here to combine two studies to the full extent of our health... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...if he gets five parties, it's no longer an offer from the CHP. We're waiting for this. We think the paramedics deserve such a gesture.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit02spe0136par0451	Okay. My dear friends, everyone has expressed their views. Our General Assembly will now make a decision on this matter. I submit the proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit02spe0137par0458	Fraud clappers.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit02spe0136par0459	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, we're moving to the business department for the agenda to vote on.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit02spe0138par0460	Mr. President, if we could just take a break, I mean, it's been really busy.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit02spe0139par0461	Yes, Mr. President, it's been a long time.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit02spe0136par0462	Five minutes... that's what I'm planning.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit02spe0139par0463	I'd appreciate it if you'd give it to me before the vote.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit02spe0136par0464	Before the vote, yes. Dear friends, let me give you an update and then I'll take a short break. [[Whistling]] Dear friends, can we please be quiet? My dear friends, we have a vote on 14 international agreements that were adopted in our Parliament last week, and I'm going to give them a short time to vote, so I'm going to inform you. I'd like to ask everyone carefully to sit down again, keeping social distances from our lawmakers who will vote. Those of you who don't have a place in other party groups should hold your place in other party groups, because social distance is important, so our friends who are crowded can use the tables of other groups, they can use their desks. I made a promise to express that care. Each of the 14 international agreements will be put to an electronic vote, and I will remind you of the rules on that subject as it begins. In all of our friends' interest, after the break, I'd like to ask them to be here because there's been a suggestion from other groups that there's a general lack of air, and we're taking a ten-minute break from the merger, considering it.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit03spe0136par0001	Dear MPs, I am opening the Third Session of the 78th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit03spe0140par0002	Mr. President, if you'll excuse me, this is about the procedure.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit03spe0136par0003	Here you go, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit03spe0140par0006	The important issue, Mr. President, is this: Now, the 145th Article of our Interior Charter, which regulates multiple open voting, may leave open voting at the end of the session or at the end of the week, if the president is required in the second joke. However, there are separate ballots for possible discrepancies, as per the rule. As we look at the reports, last week Mr. Sadi Ignorant used his authority to stop voting on Thursday of the week, considering, of course, that we're on corona terms. On Thursday, however, there was no voting possible because of the Parliament's opening-and-shutdown, and automatically, jobs pending a vote are being processed by the Presidential Court right now. This is a job that must be done under the conditions of the corona, but in a session where there are not enough meetings, it would be a clear violation of the Civil Code to vote for another week if the commission is on the same commission, without leaving it for a day of the week, but without meeting that day. We see this as, in this way, in the terms of the corona, it may be in terms of the Parliament's work, but we want to say that we don't set an example of negotiations in normal conditions. We'd appreciate it if you'd be more than willing to state your opinion on this matter. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit03spe0136par0008	Well, thank you, dear friends. My dear friends, our House has its own agenda. The vote of the laws discussed in our parliament last week has been postponed, and there are chapters on this Grand National Assembly of Turkey's Agenda on how to run the Council of Parliament. Since the President's General Assembly Presentations were not available on the Special Agenda, and there were no articles of choice, the part of the voting to do comes before the legal proposals to discuss. This is a requirement of our House of Parliament. So since these law proposals from last week have been in order and have also established our agenda, we are now obliged to vote. Because the House Council informs us of the order of every transaction we're going to do and the schedule for when it's going to be done, and so I'm going to say that we have to vote on these agreements right now, because it's part of the to-do vote. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, we will now quickly hold a series of votes.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit03spe0141par0013	That's what's wrong.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit03spe0136par0014	We begin the open vote of the Government of Turkey's Republic of Turkey and the Common Business of the Palestinian-Turkey Friendship Hospital in Gaza and the Approval of Medicine Education for Palestinian Citizens and Palestinian Citizens in Turkey. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I submit to your votes that we will now hold the open ballots that will be held in this section today on an electronic voting device: those who accept... those who do not accept... are accepted. I'm not going to repeat the matter of the open vote every time. The rules that I will present to your knowledge now apply to all open voting we will hold today. I ask that members who have not been able to enter the system during the time of the vote ask the technical staff for help, and that the members who have not been able to get the ballots into the voting process during the scheduled time. Dear lawmakers, in this vote, and from now on, our friends who can't get into the system, if they're going to send a compass to our presidency, please stop immediately to the left of our presidency, to the right of yours, to the right of yours, to the right of yours, to make the choice quickly. We want to stop our friends from coming and going from the future. Now I'll give you two minutes to vote, and I'll start the voting process. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Dear lawmakers, I declare the outcome of the open vote of Law Proposal No. 50, where we voted: ▪ Number of votes used: 274 [[x]] In this way, the offer has been accepted and legalized. Dear MPs, we begin the open vote of Turkish Parliament Speaker Izmir Bazil Yıldırım, who is in the 2nd place of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, for the adoption of the Transit and Transport Co-operation Agreement (Lapis Lazuli Co-operation Agreement). I'll give you one minute to vote. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I declare the conclusion of the open vote of Law Proposal No. 24. ▪ Number of votes used : 263 [[x]] As such, the Law Proposal number 24 has been accepted and legalized. Dear MPs, we begin the open vote of Turkish Parliament Speaker Izmir Bali Yıldırım, who ranked third in the Turkish Parliament, in accordance with the Proposition of the Social Security Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of the Republic of Kyrgyz. I'll give you one minute to vote, and I'll initiate the voting process. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Dear lawmakers, I declare the outcome of the vote of Law Proposal 51, where we voted: ▪ Number of votes used: 264 [[x]] Dear lawmakers, in this way, Law Proposal 51 has been accepted and legalized. Dear MPs, we begin the open vote of İzmir MP Bazili Yıldırım, who ranked in the fourth place, in accordance with the government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of the Nigerian Federal Republic of Trade and Economic Co-operation Agreement Opposition Approved. I'll give you one minute to vote, and I'll initiate the voting process. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] I declare the open vote of Law Proposal 61, where we voted for the honorable MPs: ▪ Number of votes used: 266 [[x]] In this way, Law Proposal 61 is accepted and legalized. Dear MPs, we begin the open vote of Izmir MP Bali Yıldırım, who ranked in the 5th place, in accordance with the Turkish Republic's Government and the Government of the Republic of Uzbekistan. I'll give you one minute to vote, and I'll initiate the voting process. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Dear lawmakers, I declare the outcome of the open vote of Law Proposal 63, where we voted: ▪ Number of votes used: 275 [[x]] In this way, Law Proposal 63 is accepted and legalized. We begin the open vote of İzmir MP Bazili Yıldırım, who is ranked in the 6th place, in accordance with the Turkish Republic's Government and the Military Education and Teaching Association Agreement between the People's Republic of Bangladesh. I'll give you one minute to vote, and I'll initiate the voting process. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Dear lawmakers, I declare the outcome of the open vote of Law Proposal No. 65, where we voted. ▪ Number of votes used : 272 [[x]] In this way, Law Proposal number 65 has been accepted and legalized. We are starting a clear vote between Turkish Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Ukrainian Government between Turkey's Government and the Ukrainian Government of Turkey in order to prevent Double Taxation in Taxes taken over Wealth and to confirm the Protocol on Determination of Tax Trafficking, which has changed the Treaty of Tax Trafficking. I'll give you one minute to vote, and I'll initiate the voting process. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Dear lawmakers, I declare the clear vote of Law Proposal 77: ▪ Number of votes used: 275 [[x]] In this case, Law Proposal 77 is accepted and legalized. Dear MPs, we are starting a clear vote by Turkish Parliament Speaker Tekirdağ Mustafa Sentop (Tekirdağ), who is in the 8th place of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, in accordance with the Constitution of the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the European Regional Office of the World Health Organization for Preparing for Humanity and Health Emergency Conditions (DSÖ) Country Agreement for the Establishment of the Office of Geographical Dissolution in Istanbul Turkey. I'll give you one minute to vote, and I'll initiate the voting process. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Dear lawmakers, I declare the open vote of Law Proposal 78: ▪ Number of votes used : 272 [[x]] In this way, Law Proposal 78 is accepted and legalized. We begin the open vote of Turkish Parliament Speaker Izmir Bali Yıldırım, who was in the 9th place, of the Turkish Parliament, in accordance with the International Completion Transport Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of the Republic of Uzbekistan. I'll give you one minute to vote, and I'll initiate the voting process. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I declare the clear vote of Law Techlfi (Law) #80: ▪ Number of votes used: 270 [[x]] In this way, Law Proposal number 80 has been accepted and legalized. Dear MPs, we begin the open vote of Turkish Parliament Speaker Izmir Bülli Yıldırım, who is in the 10th place, to approve the Partial Revision on International Railway Transport (COTIF). I'll give you one minute to vote, and I'll initiate the voting process. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] I declare the clear vote of Law Techlfi, 81 rows: ▪ Number of votes used : 272 [[x]] In this way, Law Proposal 81 is accepted and legalized. We begin the open vote of İzmir MP Bazil Yıldırım, who is ranked in the 11th place, between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan, with the Recognisation of Driver's Documents, and the Approvement of Agreement and Agreement of Delimental Notations. I'll give you one minute to vote, and I'll initiate the voting process. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I declare the clear vote of Law Techlfi (Law) 85 rows: ▪ Number of votes used: 274 [[x]] In this way, Law Proposal 85 is accepted and legalized. We begin the open vote of Turkish Parliament Speaker Izmir Bali Yıldırım, in the 12th place of Turkey's Grand National Assembly, that the adoption of the Social Security Agreement between the Republic of Turkey and Mongolia is appropriate. I'll give you one minute to vote, and I'll initiate the voting process. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Dear lawmakers, I declare the clear vote of Law Proposal 107: ▪ Number of votes used: 274 [[x]] In this way, Law Proposal 107 is accepted and legalized. We will begin the open vote of Tekirdağ MP Mustafa Sentop (Tekirdağ) for the adoption of the Air Transport Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of Republika Srpska (Serbia). I'll give you one minute to vote, and I'll initiate the voting process. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Dear lawmakers, I declare the open vote of Law Proposal 115: ▪ Number of votes used: 283 [[x]] In this way, Law Proposal 115 is accepted and legalized. Dear lawmakers, we are starting a clear vote by Tekirdağ MP Mustafa Sentop (Tekirdağ), which is in the 14th place, in accordance with the Government of the Republic of Turkey's Government of Turkey and the Approval Protocol for the Union of Business and the Government of the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus. I'll give you one minute to vote, and I'll initiate the voting process. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Dear lawmakers, I declare the clear vote of Law Proposal 122: ▪ Number of votes used: 279 [[x]] In this way, Law Proposal 122 is accepted and legalized. I wish all our accepted laws to the best of us. I'm taking a ten-minute recess, especially in terms of the protection of social distance and the assurance of our Parliament's air-conditioning.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit04spe0136par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 78th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. According to the decision taken, we move to the part of the agenda with the proposals of the Law and other tasks from the Commissions. We will begin talks with Justice and Development Party Deputy Denizli MP Cahit Özkan, National Movement Party Deputy Chair Mohammed Levent Bulbül and Afyonkarahisar MP Ali Özkaya and the Law on the Execution of Criminal and Security Measures of 57 MPs. Commission? He's in position. Here you are, Mr. Beştaş.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit04spe0142par0009	Thank you, Mr. President. According to Article 92 of the Civil Code, the law that we are to discuss now is a law of forgiveness, so three fifths of which need to be searched. We would like to know your position on this matter first. Are you going to look for this majority, this relative? If you're not going to call, we'd like to have a formal discussion.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit04spe0143par0011	We want your word on the side.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit04spe0144par0012	It's in your favor.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit04spe0145par0013	Against you.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit04spe0146par0014	Let's learn the President's attitude first. How do you know?
tbmm-2020-04-07sit04spe0147par0015	My dear friends, one moment...
tbmm-2020-04-07sit04spe0148par0016	Let's learn the President's attitude first.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit04spe0147par0017	So, Mr. Beştaş, you're suggesting that the law is not in accordance with the Constitution, and you'd like to open a legal debate on the grounds that it is contrary to the Constitution?
tbmm-2020-04-07sit04spe0148par0018	Yeah, yeah.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit04spe0147par0019	Dear lawmakers, my opinion -- in the position of the commission -- is that the proposal of the law is to be discussed, but I will meet the request for a formal debate.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit04spe0149par0020	It's in your favor.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit04spe0150par0021	It's in your favor.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit04spe0151par0022	Against you.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit04spe0152par0023	Against you.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit04spe0153par0024	Regretfully, sir, he's against it.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit04spe0154par0025	Against Mr. Beştaş, Mr. Tezcan; in favor, Mr. Ramazan Can, Mr. Recep Special. We'll start with speeches on the sidelines. Mr. Ramazan Can, please. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Our time is three minutes each, my dear friends.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit04spe0155par0030	Make it five, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit04spe0154par0031	My dear friends, we are implementing the provisions of the Civil Code, and our time is three minutes.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit04spe0156par0034	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. First of all, the objection to violation of the Constitution is a claim. A claim is an abstract definition unless proven; it's a legal term. Therefore, responding to a claim reveals in the Turkish Grand National Assembly, the lack of a law on commissions, which is impossible to accept from a legal standpoint. On the other hand, the constitutional claim against the Constitution... that when Turkey's proposed law to the Grand National Assembly... the presidency, the Laws, the Decisions, followed by the transfer... the Commission is in control of the agenda, and the Commission has spoken of it. If I remember correctly, Ağrı MP, a friend of ours from HDP has spoken verbally and our President Yilmaz Bronzeç has put it to a vote, and the Justice Commission has rejected it. Therefore, the Constitutional objection to violation was not included in the Commission. At this stage, there could be anti-constitutional motions for violations of the Constitution; they were not given; they may have been given them. Therefore, the opposition has been dismissed from the Commission report and with it the report has been submitted, and has been referred to the General Assembly of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. I'm in favor of our president's initiative. Our president has his agenda. In this regard, the proposal for the law came to the first place in parliament today as a number of AK PARTI groups. In this sense, the General Assembly of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey can address MPs' claims of unconstitutionalism by groups in the form of a motion to discuss first. Who would appreciate this claim of violation of the Constitution? Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly. And if that doesn't turn out to be the case, then, of course, you can go to the Constitutional Court. That's why the Supreme Court was founded. The Parliament -- I am -- can also make a law against the Constitution; it is not right to take it out, it can take it out. The Constitutional Court is in charge of this. On the other hand, he made a claim about amnesty here, Deputy President of the HDP Group. This is not a pardon; this is an execution regime. Here, in the execution regime, the person who has been released with favourable provisions is not actually being evacuated as it is under amnesty; the person who has been released here will benefit from supervised freedom, conditional release if he has a good attitude. The same conditions may exist among those who are subject to the execution regime. Those who are subject to different execution regimes are not right to think alike, which does not violate the principle of equality. The execution regime will continue outside; the execution regime will continue on this person, as there is no evacuation.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit04spe0157par0040	Complete it, Mr. Can.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit04spe0156par0041	And in the event that the person who has taken advantage of the probationary freedom provisions or who has been carried out in the dwelling or in some other way, in violation of these execution sentences, will be returned to the execution regimes and to the prison, and will also burn conditional release for which the sentence of execution has been imposed, so to speak. Therefore, this is not a pardon. This issue has been made clear in the grounds for the annulment of Constitutional Court Law 4616. It's a regime of executions, if you think about it, if you think about it, if you're released, if you think about it, the execution regime is still under way, and they haven't been released. Therefore, the Constitution is ineffective. I say I'm in favor of the president's position, and I salute the General Assembly again.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit04spe0157par0044	Against you, Mr. Coral Danış Beştaş, please. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is three minutes.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit04spe0158par0047	Mr. President, according to the Council of Interior 92, the admission of the proposals, including the general or private amnesty declaration, is subject to three-thirds of the total number of members in the General Assembly; this is a very clear ruling. Article 65 of the Turkish Penal Code: In general amnesty, the civil suit will be dropped, the government sentences will be eliminated with all consequences. Note the third joke: the sentence of special amnesty may be terminated at the execution institution or may be reduced to a fine. Now, there's a very clear picture of past practices when the Turkish Penal Code is assessed along with the Civil Code 92. In this bill, we think the quality of special amnesty is legally uncontroversial. Some of the terms of the convicts, as the Turkish penal code was arranged in 65, are being reduced the execution period and reduced the probationary period, and -- you said that -- are envisioning the evacuation of 90 thousand people.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit04spe0159par0049	The execution continues.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit04spe0158par0050	You've brought this offer to us to get someone, your followers, your supporters out, and you've brought it to us at a time like this.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit04spe0160par0051	How did you detect this?
tbmm-2020-04-07sit04spe0158par0052	Therefore, the search for three-in-five majority is also a commandary arrangement according to Article 10 of the Constitution. Everyone is equal before the Constitution; religion, language, race, political thinking, no difference in this matter. Now, what we call "infase justice" comes out right here. We're not supposed to confuse the relationship between crime and punishment with the methodology of execution. When we say "justice in execution," as it is known all over the world, a person who is being punished is ultimately expected to be punished in accordance with the law. You're predicting three different regimes for punishment: you're bringing forgiveness with one / two; you're reducing the time of execution for drug abuse, sexual immunity.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit04spe0161par0053	We're not reducing it.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit04spe0160par0054	There's no such thing!
tbmm-2020-04-07sit04spe0158par0055	By leaving the political prisoners at three-quarters of the time, you are actually conducting a special regime by enforcing the conditions of their stay in prison to a separate punishment. In a nutshell, I say: In accordance with the Constitution, the Turkish Penal Code and the Civil Code, 3/5 of this Parliament must be sought out because it is a special pardon; it is a historical responsibility, especially in the face of such a major disaster epidemic. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit04spe0162par0059	Almost in favor, Mr. Recep Special.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit04spe0163par0061	Mr. President, highly valued MPs, I salute you all. First of all, I'd like to point out that we don't agree with Mr. Beştaş. It's not a pardon law; it's not an amnesty law, it's not a amnesty law. The main objective in the laws of amnesty is to eliminate all consequences of crime and punishment.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit04spe0164par0063	That's amnesty!
tbmm-2020-04-07sit04spe0163par0064	In what part of our arrangement is the result of the crime and punishment eliminated? Under the provision brought in, they are only scheduled to stay in prison in the sentence section. The state also has the right to bring different execution times to different execution regimes against different types of lawmakers. This has been the subject of the Supreme Court before. If I read to you the relevant section of Constitutional Court's 2006/103 and 2009/149 decisions in 2009, we will all see that there is no conflict with the Constitution. The Constitutional Court says that the choice of punishment, criminal judgment and criminal execution law is relevant to the criminal policy of the state, as punishment, and punishment in the field of criminal judgment and criminal execution law, due to the fact that Ceza law is associated with the culture and the level of civilization of society, social and economic life of society. In this context, the lawmaker has the authority to appreciate what methods of investigation and trial will be carried out in accordance with the basic principles of the Constitution and the basic rules of criminal law, and on what kind and extent of punishment should they be met if they are considered to be guilty, and on which conditions and actions should be considered to be aggravated or extenuating, and on which obligations to be carried out by individualizing the criminal laws of the Constitution. Therefore, there is no contrary to the Constitutional Court of Justice in which the lawmaker shall exercise his discretion by making arrangements between the prisoners, such as in the rule of annulment, in which conditions the sentence shall be individualized by the court. There has been an argument, voted and decided on. Article 38 of the Civil Code clearly regulates it; commissions are obliged to first examine the proposed proposal, whether it is contrary to the Constitution, the text and its spirit. The Justice Commission has fulfilled this obligation, discussed the proposal, voted, and entered into the agenda of the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit04spe0165par0066	Don't give the House false information.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit04spe0163par0067	The position of the President's office is the correct one on a matter that has come up on the agenda of the General Assembly. A majority of three-to-five is not an offer of law that needs to be made -- because there is no law of forgiveness. He says that normal laws are subject to the same procedures as they are spoken of, and I pay all my respects.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit04spe0166par0069	Against you, Mr. Bulent Tezcan.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit04spe0167par0071	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, we're discussing the procedure. Everyone knows that the offer we're meeting today is a special pardon law proposal. The 87th Article of the Constitution has given the Turkish Parliament the authority to grant general amnesty and special amnesty, but it has not been defined in the Constitution. Everyone knows that -- that's one of the first things mentioned in law school -- the recipe for amnesty and special forgiveness was made in the doctrine and also in the Turkish Penal Code. The amnesty is the amnesty that eliminates crime and punishment with all its consequences. Mr. Recep Special, what you just said is a general pardon. Special pardon is the constant but-forgivement arrangement that eliminates punishment. In this way, the special pardon of Article 65 of the Turkish Penal Code (2) described the special pardon, and the lawmaker described it as a special pardon for not being sentenced, not being executed, or executed by a specific part of it. According to criminal types, there are practices that eliminate executions in the proportions of 1/2, 2/3, 3/4. In fact, you know it's a special pardon, everyone knows it, but it's not a pardon, it's an execution arrangement. It's being described as an execution arrangement. Why is that? And we all know why. It's because you're trying to put this into a pattern that, with a wide and vast consensus, you can sit down and really relax the conscience of the community and avoid making a law that's appropriate for the need. That's why you're trying to sell it to us, not an Af, but a reduced execution. Look, it's impossible for anyone to swallow this, and I'll even give you an example from your Mr. President-General: Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, if you remember before this, when offers for a reduction in execution came up, he said: "The state can forgive crimes against the people, but can't forgive crimes against the citizens."
tbmm-2020-04-07sit04spe0168par0076	Covered amnesty.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit04spe0169par0077	Complete, Mr. Tezcan, please.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit04spe0167par0078	I'm ending it, Mr. President. Here's the thing: we'll discuss the details of such an offer when we enter the material in front of us -- the state doesn't forgive the crimes against itself, but it's very generous in crimes against the citizens. Let them die from corona in prison and die from something else, where they die. An understanding is within the account of the organization's founding, gang-building, rapists, other, known kidnappers, who can easily get them out of prison. The discussion we're having today is not an argument about forgiveness; you're in a hurry to figure out how to get the groups we promised to get out of prison without mixing it up with the other groups. Therefore, I have taken a pledge against the position of the Presidential Court. Three out of five is a special pardon that should be decided most of the time. [[Applause from CHP and HDP rows]] Thank you.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit04spe0170par0082	Okay, thank you.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit04spe0171par0083	If your attitude hasn't changed, you have to vote.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit04spe0170par0084	Mr. Beştaş, I've listened to you. If you'd like me to make a statement, we'll continue the negotiations. I mean, I know the Civil Code, and I know where to do what needs to be done. I know the sensitivity of the matter, and I know the sensitivity of all of you, but as Deputy Speaker of the Assembly running the meeting, I know my powers stemming from the Civil Code. I've listened to you, all of you. You expressed your intention to open up a discussion of procedure, and we gave him the opportunity, and we did it. Each of these arguments is precious, my dear friends. I think it's useful for each of these to be considered publicly, to be known and watched by everyone. Dear lawmakers, as it is known, the law proposal that we are currently interviewing has been discussed by the Justice Commission as a legal proposal for the execution of the main criminal and security measures (2/2762). The Commission's report was submitted to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, and has been distributed to lawmakers by the presidential rankings of 207. Dear lawmakers, it is possible to make a claim that law proposals are in violation of the Constitution, according to Article 38 of our Civil Code, during the commission talks, and it is incumbent on the commission. Again, it is possible for the General Assembly to present claims of violation of the Constitution during talks on the entire proposal. According to Article 84 of the Civil Code, the motions for rejection are voted before other proposals, on the grounds that a specific clause is contrary to the Constitution during the meeting of the General Assembly. As you can see, if the proposal is considered unconstitutional, there are Civil Code provisions that allow it to be rejected either on the commission or on the General Assembly. In addition, law proposals can be legally controlled by the Constitutional Court after they pass through the House. There is no change in my view that I have just expressed about the continuation of the talks regarding the law proposal, which has been adopted by Parliament Speakership and agreed to talk to the General Assembly. There is no action against the demand. It's for the information of the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit04spe0172par0089	I'd like a short word for 60, Mr. President. Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-04-07sit04spe0170par0090	One moment, Mr. Beştaş, I beg you, I beg you, but look, I'm making a statement.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit04spe0172par0091	I'm asking you, too, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit04spe0170par0092	I'm processing, but right now, I'll give you my word.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit04spe0172par0093	You've made your point, it's over, so I want a word.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit04spe0170par0094	But look, I'm processing; I'm asking you.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit04spe0172par0095	I'm waiting.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit04spe0170par0099	Dear MPs, the Commission Report has been suppressed and distributed by the number of 207 rows. According to the decision taken, this proposal will be considered as the basic law under Article 91 of the Civil Code. Therefore, the proposal will be discussed in sections after all negotiations have been completed and passed on to the articles, and the clauses in the chapters will be voted separately. Now, we'll begin negotiations on the entire proposal... Here you are, Mr. Beştaş.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit04spe0173par0105	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, I'd like to express that I find your attitude absolutely unacceptable as a lawyer. I'm telling you from a place where he's served as Deputy Speaker of the Legislative Assembly for years before, and he knows how you've reacted to the decisions of the Council of Parliament, the Presidential Court, and we've been very sorry about that, and I don't want to say anything more. We know exactly what you're talking about, and we're just as good of a colleague as you are, and we're talking about a very vital plan here. We're in a time of disaster, when hundreds of thousands of people think that this bill will include them or if they'll be left to die. As lawmakers, we are so protected, with our masks on our faces, our colognes in front of us, standing here with our special vehicles, 60 people have to be in touch in there and they can knock on death doors at any moment. In this way, in the end, these laws are made in a particular background, the Constitutions are made in a specific background, and the special amnesty laws are also enforced in the Turkish Penal Code...
tbmm-2020-04-07sit04spe0174par0109	Mr. Beştaş, please complete your statement because we're building a procedure.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit04spe0173par0110	The process ends life, Mr. President, that's what I'm saying.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit04spe0174par0111	Mr. Beştaş, complete, please.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit04spe0173par0112	Let's not argue, Mr. President. I'll finish anyway.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit04spe0174par0113	But I made my point. Well, I respect that.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit04spe0173par0114	Right now, your attitude is to allow this law proposal to be passed against the Constitution. We don't have a majority on the commission, maybe. We have submitted amendments to the Constitutional Court, and we know that way; we will go to the Constitutional Court. I'm finishing, my last words. When such a special pardon is not accepted by 3/5 of the time of the Corona outbreak, it is against the law, it is against the Constitution, and we reject your attitude. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit04spe0175par0119	Dear MPs, I can't participate in the debate as acting Speaker, but I've just expressed my opinion. And the Deputy Speakers of the House... [[Turning from HDP rows to press box opening banners and hitting desk doors]] One moment, dear friends, let's be calm, everyone give a message of course, we're talking about an important law, none of which is okay. [[Turning from HDP rows to press box opening banners and hitting desk doors]] Mr. Oluç, I think it's enough, thank you. Dear friends, thank you; let's sit down. My dear friends, look, I stress the importance of a democratic response in our House. Thank you all. My dear friends, these reactions are natural in the democratic environment, and criticism is natural, and it's perfectly natural to have any kind of discussion freely done. My dear friends, of course, as our Deputy Speaker of Parliament, we have no authority to discuss a law proposal that has been adopted by the General Assembly on the agenda of our Speakership. This proposal of the law is discussed. In this regard, the Constitutional Court has been designated to investigate and conclude claims against the Constitutional Court. It's only natural for our lawmakers to apply to the Constitutional Court, which has reached enough numbers on this issue.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit04spe0176par0130	Mr. President, the Supreme Court...
tbmm-2020-04-07sit04spe0175par0131	My dear friends, look, I express my views in a very respectable manner.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit04spe0176par0132	There's no Supreme Court left!
tbmm-2020-04-07sit04spe0175par0133	Mr. Paylan, I beg you, look, I understand you all very well, but every mission has its own specifics, and the Civil Code has its rules, my dear friends. We'll serve under these rules. I'm not in the position to discuss a law proposal as acting Speaker of Parliament, so it's out of the question, but I think it's possible for you to speak most strongly against the Constitution, and I think the public will already appreciate it, and everyone will appreciate it. I think it would be healthy for the talks to work in this frame. Whatever I think everyone's thinking, whatever legal assessment they're making, let's be free to say it, my dear friends. We're starting negotiations on the entire proposal. First, Mr. Lütfü Türkkan will speak on behalf of the Good PARTY Group. [[A round of applause from the good parties]] Your time is twenty minutes, Mr. Turkkan.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit04spe0177par0141	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the good PARTI Group on the Law on the Execution of Criminal and Security Protections and the Proposal of the Law on Changes in Some Laws. I salute your high council. This law proposal, which the public has been waiting for, which the Justice and Development Party has been working on for a long time and has re-opened due to the coronavirus epidemic, came to the Commission last Friday, and was adopted by the Commission as a result of hours of work. I think it was twenty after five in the morning, so I followed it, and the talks are over with the Commission, and we're starting today at the General Assembly. Before we talk about the overall proposal, I find it helpful to make a general assessment and address some points. Law texts on the Constitutions have been intended to restrain and tame the power governing them in a certain regime since the first day they were needed. Under the principle of law taking its roots from Magna Carta, the Great Freedom Order, which means that power should exercise governance in accordance with legal legitimacy, instead of political rights, is the main goal of governance, in order to prevent politics from flowing out of a certain normative area. From here, the government and state institutions are completely separate from each other in states where the law is superior. We too have questions to ask ourselves first and to give answers to - questions of whether we have the rule of law, whether the judiciary is independent. We actually know the answers to these questions very well. In our country, the concepts of state and power are identified with political minds, so the rule of law has been deformed. Taking away the right to a fair trial is the best example, and the ruling party is ignoring the real problem by bringing regulations into the framework that we are now discussing, so the main problems cannot be solved. How can we say that this arrangement brings constructive solutions to the law if there is no regulation that strengthens judicial independence and guarantees judges? The judges who make these decisions can't make independent decisions, that's our main problem. Dear friends, the problem with judicial independence, which is one of the founding functions of justice in our country, aside from one of the most fundamental structural problems, is the number of prisoners and prisoners in prisons. Prisons have been packed for a long time. We're getting additional bunk beds, we're even getting reports that some inmates are lying on the floor, and there are people on shifts. Before I mention the number of prisoners and prisoners, I'd like to talk about the prisons. 178 prisons were opened during the Justice and Development Party. But there are 14 new prisons in 2019. The total number of prisons in Turkey is 375, and their total capacity is 219,270. As for the number of prisoners and prisoners, in 2002, when the Justice and Development Party came to power, do you know how much that number was in the prisons in our country? 60 grand. How much today? Three hundred thousand. I'd like to point out the increase in some numbers: 64,296 in 2003, 70,000 in 2006, 103 in 2008, 136 in 2012, 164,000 in 2016, 164,000 in 2016, and today, as I just said, about 300,000. Look, if the number of people in prison is increasing rapidly in one country, there are two reasons. One: power follows social policies that lead to increased crime rate, which means it produces a lot of criminals. The second is that power is inventing new crimes. Well, how about us? We have both. Even the number of prisoners in prisons alone is a manifestation of your 18-year-old power, both in the eyes of social policy and in the eyes of criminal law theory, in terms of your failure and lack of insight. I wanted to talk to you about prisons and the number of prisoners and convicts around here before I made a statement about the general and material of the proposal in order to better explain this failure, because these are the summations of your 18-year-old power. So if it's from the current 60,000 to 300,000 in prisons, there are some very serious issues here that you need to face. If you think you can handle such matters by changing the Law on the Execution of Punishment and Security measures, you are mistaken. Mr. President, valued lawmakers are the basic principles of execution law according to Turkish law, the law state, which takes power from the 2nd and 10th Articles of the Constitution, the immunity of human honor, equality and social state principles. In this regard, the purpose of the execution law is to prevent the prisoner from committing crimes again, to protect society from crime, to encourage the re-socialization of the prisoner and to adapt to a productive, law-abiding way of life. With this arrangement, it is estimated that nearly 300,000 prisoners in criminal execution institutions will benefit from the conditional release or supervised freedom provisions of close to 90,000 people. In our talks with the Justice and Development Party delegation before the bill was presented to Parliament, we also expressed our red lines at the press conferences on behalf of our group: in this way, the expansion of the extent of the criminally-inflicted conditions of injury, the exclusion of sexual assault crimes, drug use, production, and trafficking crimes against state security, including terrorist crimes. As a group of Turkish nationals, such as the crimes committed against the state of Turkey, the institutions and organs of the state, and the crimes committed against Ataturk, our red lines constitute the essence of this amendment proposal. But, you know, in preparation for this kind of law, there may be some fine reductions hidden among certain substances. So we think it should be seriously analyzed. On one hand, we have ruled out violence, rape, child abuse, a reduced sentence to drug dealers. Given the rapid increase in violence against women and the fact that violence against women has not been committed against the spouse alone, it is imperative that violence be organised as one of the reasons to increase the sentence for deliberate injury in our country when we look at Article 11 of the Law proposal. Therefore, we believe that Article 86 of Law 5237 must be added to the woman's hand. Because there are crimes against the spouse. Crimes against a woman who is not a wife are not covered by that. Look, we've had one agenda for a long time, the coronavirus epidemic, other problems have become invisible, so life is getting harder for disadvantaged groups in society. Women, especially women who have been exposed to violence, are no longer safe from homes where many women have sought refuge to overcome this epidemic. Statistics show that domestic violence has become surprisingly widespread in the World Women's Progress Report 2019, titled the United Nations Women's Unit in the Changing World, suggest that one of the most dangerous places for women is their home. There have been 474 women's murders in our country last year. Sadly, 12 of these murders belonged to my hometown, my constituency of the district of Alexandria. 29 women were killed in Turkey last month and 18 of our women were killed in their homes, in their own homes. In our country, most women are killed by men close by their wives, fathers, lovers, brothers. So staying at home puts many women in a bigger fire, as it does not protect them. We're going to stop the Women's Murders. The applications to the platform's support line in March indicate that women are not being watched in the battle of the coronavirus. According to the platform, women hesitate to even go to the hospital to get a report of the assault due to the risk of infection. And the worst part is that law enforcement can't fulfill its obligations under Law 6284, which protects women from violence by using the corona virus as an excuse. Therefore, the concern of failing in measures related to violent perpetrators deters women from using their rights. If our women are released, they will also increase their violence. They have concerns. I would also like to inform you that at the core of our sensitivity in this matter, I have spoken as a member of a party that a woman is running for President of the United States. Remember last year, in traffic in July, when a pregnant woman was attacked by two men for reasons she didn't. Those who broke the rearview mirror of the vehicle and jumped on top of it were taken into custody and then released. For these reasons, we want the concept of women to enter into our penal code, which defines the victim only as "equal" when our women are being abused in front of our eyes. Look, we've been getting calls and e-mails from various women's associations. You know what they say about this arrangement? We don't accept forgiveness, whose name will be temporary, and its destruction will be permanent. They say so. Yeah, that's exactly what they say. We don't accept the pardon draft, whose name will be temporary, and the destruction will be permanent. According to this proposal, no matter the amount of time convicted for crimes committed prior to the date the proposal was passed, convicts serving a maximum three-month sentence from the execution process of prison sentences and all prisoners taken to an open execution institution will be released temporarily at the same time as they have been under law. Yes, all prisoners who have been taken to an open criminal execution institution will be released temporarily at the same time as the date the proposal was passed. Prisoners who have assaulted his wife, sexually assaulted his daughter, sexually abused his student, will walk free.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit04spe0178par0154	That's not true. That's not true.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit04spe0177par0155	Women's associations ask who or who does the government have a say in this matter? I'll tell you in a minute. I'll tell you in a minute, if you'll listen. AS a good PARTI Group, we have strongly expressed our demand for a heavy cost of violence to the woman, and we will continue to bring it to her. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers are the sexual abuse of children with another red line and drug trafficking. With the 48th article proposed to change, the general ratio of two-thirds of the terms of the conditions for the release of prisoners is defined as half. With the sentence added to the second joke, the ratio of two-thirds is protected in some areas of crime. The joke clearly states decisions only about children, and other provisions will be carried out for both children and adults. Depending on the change made in the second joke of the article, the number of conditional releases included in the fourth joke is two-thirds. Among the crimes left outside the scope of the 2/3 of the 2/3 of the 2/3 of the second joke, TK is 103, including children's sexual abuse and the fact that drug trafficking crimes are committed by adults and should be subject to 3/4 of the proportion. This arrangement should not cause a discrepancy in the application and should be conducted directly under Article 107. The charge is crimes, public order facilities, and crimes which must be presented under Article 107, which organises a conditional release, with an exception of 3⁄4 (periods) to maintain social peace. Three months ago, in December 2019, in the case of sexual abuse against two children in Çanakkale, the perpetrator was not arrested and was not ordered to exercise judicial control over him. Again, a 12-year-old boy was raped by the imam during a course to study religion at Mersin Tarsus. The prosecutor asked the imam to be punished, the court refused. The family's psychologically disbanded due to the defendant's trial without arrest. It's possible to replicate samples like this. Such crimes are crimes that create infinitive public peace and public order. We desire that these crimes be organized under article 107, in a manner that does not cause hesitation or confusion, and that the public conscience may be somewhat relieved. In the 5th article of Article 53 of the proposal, all prisoners in open prison will be allowed until the end of the year because of the coronavirus. These include sexual crimes and those convicted of manslaughter. You know what the people we came to with those votes say to you now? The mother of a young drug addict, the father of a child who was raped, we want to forgive those who have ruined the lives of your children. How sad is that, really? Mr. President, valued lawmakers, according to this arrangement, the person who commits a crime under the Anti-Terror Law, such as participates in a simple demonstration and march, donates to an association, writes a book, or writes a tweet, will not benefit from these discounts. There are people in the social media that you only send to prison because of a text he wrote or because he's against you and your system. Look, according to the data released by the Justice Department, there has been a huge increase in the cases of defamation of the presidency during the period of Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan. The 11th President Abdullah Gul filed a lawsuit against 848 defendants during the period of Erdogan, while the number reached 17.406. When you look at the number of cases filed between 1986 and 2018, the huge increase in the four-year period of Erdogan remains a bit more noticeable. During the date period, 19,122 defendants were indicted, 17.406 of which Mr. Erdogan opened. Can you imagine, in the case of 19,122 defendants, 17.406 have been opened by Erdogan. These figures represent 91 per cent of the total cases. According to the number of defendants in the cases filed by the President, the 7th President of the Republic of Turkey, the blood of the Dicta regime, the number of defendants in the cases in the period of Kenan Evren. The number of defendants in the period 207 in the period of Özal has increased by 158 in the period of Demirel, 163 in the period of Sezer, and 420 per cent during Abdullah Gul, and 848 in the period of Abdullah Gül, but the main figure has been noted since the arrival of this freak system. Why? Mr. President of the Party. Party presidents are criticized. Aren't we criticizing the party presidents? We all criticize the presidents of other parties... but no, I'm the President.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit04spe0179par0161	There's nothing wrong with the critic, Mr. President, he's swearing, he's insulting.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit04spe0177par0162	Well, look, I'll tell you something: with this criticism, it's very different between the criticism in your language and the universal principles. You want to set up an order not to be criticized, it's called dictatorship. Democracy doesn't have that order, it doesn't have that system. So that line between democracy and dictatorship is a very thick line, so don't cross it.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit04spe0180par0163	Don't insult me...
tbmm-2020-04-07sit04spe0177par0164	Mr. President, valued lawmakers, we've also seen in this arrangement that no action has been taken regarding the situation of journalists who are in prison, especially with a number of individuals under the freedom of expression. However, it was the topic of the public's highest expectations and the most controversial issue at the point of freedom of the press. We have some journalist friends in prison who have completed their sentence and have returned to Parliament, and they will surely address this issue in their speech, but I want to say one thing: Murat Zesel, Peace Pehlivan, Peace Terkoğlu and many other journalists who I can't count here are in prison because of your unfair, unlawful practices, just because they're reporting. The name of Turkey should not be mentioned with journalists or crimes of opinion in prison, friends. That would be our shame, not just yours, but ours as a country. The progressive steps to promote freedom of expression regarding recent judicial processes against journalists need to be taken. Not just in the execution system, but in other laws, steps had to be taken. It's like a Soma mining disaster, and don't forget that it's a public conscience to have the perpetrators of the high-speed train like the Chorus come out of prison, but not just the journalists who are in prison because of the news they're doing. The charge of multiple people's deaths should be kept out of the package, not included in the arrangement brought in. Before I put an end to my words, I would like to point out that the real solution is to make clear, non-permanent arrangements in society. Justice, the judicial system that will provide it, is not a tool for power to protect its own survival. This system is to give power to the weak in the face of power. The fundamental and universal principles of judicial independence, judicial guarantees, criminal law, legal state, separation of men, and trial in a reasonable period of time should be based on the fundamental structural issues of the judiciary, which should be resolved immediately. I salute the great Parliament.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit04spe0181par0169	On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Mr. Muhammad Levent Bülbül, MP of the MP of MHP Group Sakarya. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is twenty minutes, Mr. Nightingale.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit04spe0182par0172	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Nationalist Movement Party Group on behalf of the entire Milletist Movement Party Proposal for the execution of penal and security measures in 207 rows and the amendment to some laws. I salute your high council. On March 31, 2020, I wish that the 70-point bill presented to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey would first bring blessings to our country and our nation. As it is known, in May 2018, Mr. President expressed concern that in the political and social environment following the July 15 coup attempt, prisons had a large capacity. Our president emphasised that the situation in prisons has made it impossible for prisoners and prisoners here to live in a human and healthy way; again, a chaos plan may be carried out by the state and nation-hating structures by exploiting the conditions in prison. In accordance with these sensitivities, our proposal, known publicly as a plea reduction, was submitted to the Turkish Parliament on 24/9/2018, when our Vice President-General, Mr. Feti Yıldız Bey, who was in charge of law and election work, was first signed. Since the day the proposed law was presented to parliament, there has been a serious expectation of both prisoners and prisoners, and the meeting of the law proposal in parliament and the legalisation of the law has been demanded by the communities. From the very beginning, we have stated that it is not possible for the National Movement Party to take the initiative to remove the current problems in prisons. In this regard, we have also expressed many times that a legal arrangement in the case of a consensus and a consensus with the Justice and Development Party, which is in the condition of the 1st party in parliament, where we have formed the Cumhur Alliance together, can be alive in the process. Following the discovery of the Judiciary Reform Strategy Document and Judiciary Vision, along with the beginning of efforts to bring reform in the judiciary and the coming of judicial packages to parliament, representatives of the two party groups met together to consider social sensitivities and national red lines, an agreement has been reached, with the signature of both parties we are now negotiating with Turkey's Grand National Assembly. The 70-point law proposal includes temporary arrangements to be implemented once-in-a-lifetime, as well as important permanent regulations for criminal execution law. The proposal of the law contains many new and appropriate regulations regarding the law of execution. One of them is the regulations for the execution court. The execution of prisoners who have been carried out in accordance with the procedures and grounds set according to regulations on the execution of punishment and security measures is at stake. The protection measures applied under the Penal Code are also part of the mandate and authority of the law of execution. The court and the courts are expanded by the legal proposal of the execution court, which has been committed to the purpose of specialising in its jurisdiction. The fact that the execution procedures for the implementation of punishment and security measures as a result of the trial will undoubtedly lead to an increase in the accuracy of these proceedings. In particular, changes and innovations envisioned in a system in which executions differ greatly in our country and are incompatible will prevent many victims, causing reductions in the workload of courts. Dear lawmakers, the law proposal we are negotiating brings in permanent and temporary arrangements for the supervised liberalisation measure. Under the 46th article of the proposal, the probationary release period is set in terms of crimes committed after the date of the law. As you know, the current probationary release period is one year. The law proposal envisions a system of proportions instead of victims in supervised freedom, unlike the current application. According to this, the prisoners will spend 4/5 of the time spent at an open and closed prison execution institution, which must be spent in criminal execution institutions for a conditional release. The prisoners will be executed by implementing a controlled liberalisation measure, which is a part of the calculated release -- i.e. parole -- to date. In any case, the probationary release period could be maximum for three years. As part of the same clause, convicted women with children in the 0-6-year-old group who are unable to survive their lives alone because of a severe illness, disability or my husband will be able to take advantage of a controlled liberalisation measure if they spend 3/5 of the time required by criminal execution agencies for conditional release. In either case, the probationary release period will not exceed four years. In addition to these envisioned changes in supervised liberalisation, some adjustments have been made in temporary substances. Under Article 52 of the proposal, in terms of crimes committed until March 30, 2020, the probationary release period of one year in the current law is extended to three years, one time only. It has to be said that three years of supervised freedom will not benefit those convicted of certain crimes. Intentional manslaughter offenders will not be able to benefit from three years of criminally controlled freedom against the state's security, constitutional order, national defence and state secrets, and terrorist offenders who committed three years of criminal crimes against torture, torture, torture and sexual immunity. Again, a probationary release period of women with children between the ages of 0 and 6 has been extended to four years for convicts who have turned 70. Prisoners who can't live alone because of a severe illness or disability or because of my husband and who have completed 65 years of age will be able to benefit from probation if they are properly identified. Dear lawmakers, regulations are being made to release the law under conditions of Articles 48, 49 and 66 of its proposal. Circumstanced release means that the prisoner be released from the detention institution on condition that he be evaluated after a certain amount of prison time was executed. The offer reduces the two-thirds-period release rate for permanent prison sentences to 1.2 per cent, with exceptions. Those sentenced to imprisonment for manslaughter, for torture and torture, for sexual assault, for sexual assault, for sexual assault, for sexual harassment, for sexual harassment, for crimes committed against sexual immunity, children sentenced to imprisonment, children sentenced to drug or stimulus, children who are sentenced to imprisonment for crimes against state secrets or trafficking, children who are sentenced to imprisonment for crimes against state secrets and espionage charges, for crimes committed against private life and the secret space of life, for crimes committed against private life, for crime, for organised or for crimes committed in accordance with the activities of the organisation, for the crime of terrorism, for children who are sentenced to commit drugs or for trafficking, for children under the crime of terrorism, or children who are sentenced to be sentenced to imprisonment for criminal imprisonment, for imprisonment for criminal acts, and for two counts of imprisonment for crimes committed for crimes committed against private life and for life. They don't benefit from a 1.2 discount. Again, adults convicted of sexual assault on Article 102 of the Turkish Penal Code (2), adults convicted of sexual abuse of children described in Article 103, adults who have been convicted of Article 104, adults who have been sentenced to 3/4 of the article 104, and adults who have been convicted of sexual relations with the minor who have been identified in the article (3) have also been kept as a conditional release rate for adults convicted of their crimes. We see here that there are some serious distortions. With this law, there is no way that sexual crimes against sexual immunity as we speak, crimes related to drug manufacturing and trafficking, crimes against terrorism and crimes committed against the state, and crimes committed against the constitutional order are not subject to a reduction in execution in any way, and they will not be able to benefit from the possibility that their probationary time will be extended to three years. Any other explanation would be contrary to the proposal of the law, and there would be a pattern of defamation of the offer of the law. Dear lawmakers, the 50th article of the law proposal includes regulations concerning special execution procedures. The law proposes that the scope of special executions is extended and the six-month limit for execution at night is set as one year, six months in deliberate crimes, and three years in paying charges, except for murder by instalment. The judge of execution is authorized to decide the procedures of special execution. The scope of the execution procedure is expanded in the dwelling, and juvenile prisoners are also covered. A total year in which women, children and people over 65 are convicted can be decided by the execution judge for a total of four years or fewer years in prison where those who have reached the age of 70 are convicted, two years in prison, 75 in prison. However, there will be no number of special execution procedures on those convicted of crimes committed under terror crimes and organisational and organizational activities, convicted of crimes committed against sexual immunity, sentenced to criminal imprisonment in the process of criminal punishment, restitution of a conditional release sentence will not be carried out on those executed in the same manner. A total sentence of five years or less years in prison is allowed to be carried out by the execution judge, who has been sentenced to criminal imprisonment or sentenced to death for a severe illness or disability, and who has been found unable to live alone in the conditions of the execution institution. The state of severe illness or disability he suffers from is determined by the report approved by the Forensic Medicine Agency or by the health boards of full-fledged hospitals established by the Ministry of Justice. The sentence of imprisoned women sentenced to three years and fewer years in prison, or sentenced to execution, can be decided by the execution judge, after six months of childbirth. Prisoners who take advantage of special execution procedures will not be able to benefit from supervised liberalisation provisions under Article 105/A. Due to the presence of Covid-19 pandemics in our country, prisoners who have been in open penal institutions and who have been in closed execution institutions and have been eligible to be released to open execution institutions will be considered on leave until 31/5/2020. If the outbreak continues, it will be extended by the Ministry of Health three times at a time by the Ministry of Justice to avoid two months at a time. There's also a speculative situation here about those who are going to take this kind of leave. At this point, we think we should know that these prisoners in open prison are already entitled to seven days off in total every three months. So in no way are they subject to such obligations as electronic handcuffs, the obligation to go to police stations and sign, they are freely granted seven days off every three months, so they are the ones who have the right to a full month in a year, and they are the ones who have the right to this permit, so in that sense, they are the ones who are involved in the community. It's a two-month extension of their permits due to Covid-19. Thus, it is also unfair to be seen in the public that they have been treated as people who have been held in prison, who have never taken advantage of their permit, in any way, in any way. And we think that should be underlined here. Again, the crimes against state and constitutional order, including crimes under the Anti-Terror Code and crimes committed within the scope of the organisation's operation, are to be held within a month of prison, less than ten years, and more than three months in a closed prison. With these changes, the maximum effort has been made to ensure that the law proposal for change in 11 different laws can be avoided speculation and provocations, and national and social sensibilities have been observed to a maximum. The current state of prisons is not sustainable. It's possible to talk about many risks and many dangerous scenarios. It's like there's going to be some people rescued from prisons, and the rest of them... we find it very unfair and wrong to create the perception that the virus is an evil place, where people will be left to die. Perhaps those who have been released from the prison will be infected and harmed, perhaps the opposite of that, because the prison is diluted, because of the intensity, they will be able to move on in a healthy way, we don't know. At this point, it's very wrong to think of prisons as a virus nest in this sense. What is needed here, and what is urgent, is to reduce the intensity of prisons and reduce the possibility of contact in prison. In the current political situation, it is impossible for political parties to come together to accept all demands, especially CHP, and HDP, together, in all these issues. It is also a mistake not to see these political conditions. Under these circumstances, it is impossible to accept this, and I would like to stand on things that would not be possible if the moon and the sun came together, and the activities at the point of resisting or blocking these talks will only cause harm to all prisoners and prisoners present in prison, and I would like to express that with all sincerity. Today, every hour we spend here, every hour we spend extra, is a real threat to the prisons where there is intense contact and intensity.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit04spe0183par0193	Why did you leave it at this hour?
tbmm-2020-04-07sit04spe0182par0194	At this point, it is wrong to make a distinction at the point where they will leave prison or stay in prison; it is important to provide healthy conditions.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit04spe0184par0196	Then let's get the politicians out, let's keep the others out.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit04spe0185par0197	Quiet, dear friends.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit04spe0182par0198	Circumstances are not healthy at the moment, but must be taken care of immediately.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit04spe0186par0199	Where have you been for two years?
tbmm-2020-04-07sit04spe0185par0200	Guys, let's calm down, let's be quiet.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit04spe0182par0201	Given the additional sensibilities of the world and the epidemic that affects our country on a global scale, the execution package, which has come on the agenda of the General Assembly, is crucial not only for the release of the prison or for those who will be released, but also for those who will remain in prison.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit04spe0187par0203	Their fate is on your neck.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit04spe0185par0204	Complete, Mr. Nightingale.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit04spe0182par0205	In this respect, it is vital to our country and our nation that the law proposal be immediately legalized without any materialising in any way. Finally, I salute the General Assembly, wishing that the Berat Kandili, which we understand, would bring health and peace to our country, the Turkish nation, the Islamic world and the whole world.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit04spe0188par0208	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-04-07sit04spe0189par0209	Here you go, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit04spe0188par0212	Mr. President, at the end of the conversation, there was a taunt we didn't understand. The importance of the matter and the seriousness of it will be seen soon, or tomorrow -- I hope -- when the speech is made on behalf of our group, the approach of our group will also be seen. We've always explained on broad platforms that there will be no criminal execution law, no criminal act, no criminal act, no criminal act, but a fair execution law according to the criminal. But this argument... so we say that if one person has received six years of bribery, but a wise judge of His Majesty told the journalist who reported the bribe: "You did it to undermine our state and support the terrorist organization." He's going to be in jail for three and a half years. This is not justice. It's an example that an understanding that advocates the journalist's imprisonment, advocates the keeping of intellectuals, advocates for the incarceration of lawyers, has been used as an example in the Parliament's records.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit04spe0189par0214	Your final words, Mr. Special. Here you go.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit04spe0188par0216	When we come out here and tell you who you're releasing. When we count the crimes you've taken and the ones you haven't taken, then you're in a different mood. I'd like to express that we condemn this aggressive and sloppy language against the delicate language we prefer. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit04spe0190par0219	Mr. President, I want a promise, too.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit04spe0191par0220	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-04-07sit04spe0192par0221	Mr. Nightingale, I promise Mr. Rich.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit04spe0193par0222	There's been a sitrep here, so there's nothing.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit04spe0194par0223	I'd call it an insult, a status assessment for MHP, is that what's going to happen?
tbmm-2020-04-07sit04spe0193par0224	What do you insult? It wasn't an insult.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit04spe0194par0225	You're insulting me.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit04spe0193par0226	How dare we insult you?
tbmm-2020-04-07sit04spe0194par0227	You slander, and it is calumny, and it is worse than blasphemy.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit04spe0195par0228	My dear friends, please, I promised Mr. Rich. I'll give it to you later, Mr. Nightingale. Here you go.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit04spe0196par0232	Mr. President, right now, we're going to have a long discussion, but he has spoken of an elaborate manner, Mr. Free Private. Is it an elaborate way of saying: Does it mean that the judges of this country, the prosecutors, the judges, the judges, the judges, the judges, the judges, the judges, the judges, the judges, the judges? So what's this? (CHP rows) Where's the truth? What's real about it? I've been a lawyer for 30 years.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit04spe0195par0234	Friends, let's just calm down, dear friends, and everyone can make a statement.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit04spe0196par0235	So, Mr. President, in fact, there was today, during the day, when we were making criticisms of each other, from our name, from our last name, from our type, from our face, from our image, how curious are you to use these expressions? They taught us that when we were kids, so we wouldn't attack like this. A little, please, let's do our reviews in a certain dose and seriousness. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit04spe0195par0237	Mr. Nightingale, please.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit04spe0197par0239	Mr. President, I think I use a very careful language in my speech. At this point, it's one thing to be offended by my political assessment, but it's another thing to say that I'm insulting or that I'm using a sloppy language. Now, I certainly don't accept this, which is exactly what I'm saying: in the present situation, we have expressed our belief that in an environment where political reconciliation is impossible to achieve, it will not serve anyone, especially in terms of prisoners and prisoners. There, I repeated the name "P.S.P." and "P.D.," and made an assessment of your policy and political attitude, especially in the terms of political criminals and journalists. Other than that, at the point where we insult and use a sloppy language, I find it unfair and wrong to condemn us. If your attitude at this point continues, we condemn you, let me put it this way.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit04spe0198par0241	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-04-07sit04spe0199par0242	All right, let's get this discussion over with.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit04spe0198par0243	As you wish, Mr. President. Yes, I will, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit04spe0199par0244	Let's finish the discussion. I'll promise you one sentence at a time. Here you go.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit04spe0200par0246	Did I pick on you now, for God's sake? What's with the teasing?
tbmm-2020-04-07sit04spe0201par0247	Mr. President, from our two colleagues...
tbmm-2020-04-07sit04spe0199par0248	Yes, but there's a lot on the agenda, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit04spe0201par0250	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-04-07sit04spe0202par0251	You picked on us, Mr. Special. You're picking on me, and then you answer me...
tbmm-2020-04-07sit04spe0201par0252	Let me finish this, let me finish this.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit04spe0202par0253	And I want answers, so they're being teased and answered, and they're being answered again. I want answers, I want answers.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit04spe0203par0254	Mr. Rich, Mr. Rich, I promise when you want to, but look, we need to stop this discussion at a certain time in order for the negotiations to work out.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit04spe0202par0255	Yeah, we were gonna leave it for tomorrow, but I mean, there's no point in leaving it till tomorrow. Yeah, I want a favor, please, let's just drop it.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit04spe0203par0256	Mr. Special, go ahead.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit04spe0204par0257	Mr. President, the Republican People's Party's stance is a stand for justice and justice and law. When we first spoke, we also said that no one who is waiting to come out of there right now should be concerned about us or anyone who is close to us. But those who were thrown in when it shouldn't be -- and those who need to get out quickly -- don't doubt our struggle. This is our line, so let's not go any further.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit04spe0203par0258	Okay.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit04spe0204par0259	As for His Majesty's judge, it's clear that he tried to wear down the government by helping a journalist, the terrorist organization, and so on, because one of His Majesty's judges reported that he was receiving a bribe. They say -- I'll bring hundreds of samples like this here tomorrow -- I've criticised him. I have not criticised all judgment, all prosecutors, all judges; we bow before those who stand before the law, against the conscience, against the court, against those who act as His Majesty's judgment.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit04spe0203par0261	Thank you.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit04spe0205par0262	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-04-07sit04spe0206par0263	Mr. President, I'd like to give you an answer.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit04spe0203par0264	Wait a minute... Mr. Beştaş had a request, Mr. Rich.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit04spe0207par0265	Let him answer.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit04spe0203par0266	He will, but a Group Vice President also made a promise, Mr. Başer. Here you go.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit04spe0208par0269	Thank you, Mr. President. Now, our name has been mentioned, too, the name of our party. First of all, let me make it very clear to you that I can't describe what kind of prudence it is.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit04spe0209par0271	That's an insult.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit04spe0208par0272	For one thing, it's not like we're standing in jail and someone's going to continue to live in the middle of death. From day one, I'm the deputy leader of a party that has ordered the evacuation of all prisons due to the corona epidemic and to be taken into account for some criminal types with appropriate forensic control and supervised liberalisation methods. Now, on this very first day, sir, if this goes on, someone will remain in prison. We certainly see them as distortions of the facts.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit04spe0209par0273	You're trying to stop it.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit04spe0208par0274	We don't want anyone to stay in prison. We want them all to come out at once.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit04spe0210par0275	No! No!
tbmm-2020-04-07sit04spe0208par0276	Because right now, stay at home. Based on the campaign and the way they protect themselves in the first place, no one's child...
tbmm-2020-04-07sit04spe0211par0278	Complete, Mr. Beştaş, please.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit04spe0208par0279	Don't let anyone expect us to let their child die. We have the politics of living, we have the politics of life, and they talk about death and killing as the authors of politics. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit04spe0211par0281	My dear friends, I am one of the best friends of all of our Group Presidents who know that they are highly licensed and conscious. But when an argument starts, I believe it's necessary to finish after one or two rounds.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit04spe0212par0282	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-04-07sit04spe0211par0283	I will, I will. So I'd like you to complete these conversations with a complementary point beyond mutual accusation. [[Between HDP and MHP rows, exchanges of speech, noise]] Friends, please... the General Assembly is this way, my dear friends. My dear friends, I promise Mr. Nightingale, please... I mean, it's the kind of thing that suits our coven... [[Between HDP and MHP rows, exchanges of speech, noise]] Please, please friends... look, the Deputy Directors of the Group are taking the stand, all representing your party, so let's show them some respect. I'm asking you... Mr. Nightingale, please. But please, let's wrap this up in this frame that I just stated. Guys, I mean, let's get this over with.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit04spe0213par0291	Mr. President, I'll try to take care of it at that point. For once, I strongly condemn the Deputy Director of the Group to express our conversation at work as self-pity. That's our real insult. That's not an acceptable statement, I'm returning it to him. Now, as we speak here, this attitude is not appropriate and does not serve anyone. What is it to do such a political analysis, to make an assessment, to do such a thing with such a word? What kind of evaluation is that? Now, we'll be on the side of death, they'll be on the side of life!
tbmm-2020-04-07sit04spe0214par0295	Yeah.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit04spe0215par0296	There's no such thing!
tbmm-2020-04-07sit04spe0214par0297	You never say death.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit04spe0216par0298	Guys, please...
tbmm-2020-04-07sit04spe0217par0299	Against those who stand by death their whole lives, who make them vomit death, who persecute this nation, who enter into the blood of this nation.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit04spe0218par0300	You describe yourself, you describe yourself.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit04spe0217par0301	...for those who have not once condemned...
tbmm-2020-04-07sit04spe0219par0302	Everything gets better when it's condemned!
tbmm-2020-04-07sit04spe0217par0303	...that those who didn't count it as a terrorist organization, in addition to death, they refer to us as a part of death, which is never, ever acceptable.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit04spe0220par0305	Round it up, Mr. Nightingale.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit04spe0217par0306	I'm picking it up, just a second... Now, look, it's the kind of attitude that should be condemned to make enemies out of prison, allies of lawmakers, supporters of lawmakers, and those who will remain inside.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit04spe0220par0309	Complete and complete, please, Mr. Nightingale.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit04spe0217par0310	We're not in such an assessment. On the other hand, we strongly reject all other evaluations. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit04spe0220par0313	Okay, thank you. My dear friends, at this stage of your speeches, I'm going to take a five-minute break from the merger. Mr. Group, I'd like to see the Vice Presidents in my office.
tbmm-2020-04-07sit05spe0220par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 78th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue negotiations with Law Proposal 207. Commission? No. It's been postponed. Since there is no other topic on our agenda, it is Wednesday (April 8th 2020) at 14 p.m. to discuss legal proposals and other tasks from the commissions, respectively, according to the decision taken. I'm closing the meeting at 00.
