ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip070x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip070x.u2	I have received amendments to the draft programme law, Nos 1125/1 to 14. I have received amendments on Program Bill Nos. 1125/1 to 14. I propose that these amendments be sent back to the Finance and Budget Committee. I propose that you refer these amendments to the Committee on Finance and the Budget. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. I propose that the Finance Committee meet during the afternoon. I propose that the Finance Committee meet around 12.00 - 12.30, depending on the progress of our work.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip070x.u3	Mr. President, Mr. Is Van Rompuy aware of the need to organise the committee meeting?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip070x.u4	Yes. Mr. Terwingen promises to do so. Moreover, on a purely practical level, the group leaders and I agreed that the vote should take place at 6 p.m. at the earliest. I hope we can vote at that time. Let's take the risk! I'm going to ask the services to send a text message to all the members.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip070x.u5	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Raf Terwingen, Sonja Becq, Gilles Foret, Philippe Goffin, Carina Van Cauter, Servais Verherstraeten.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip070x.u6	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip070x.u7	Mr President, as far as it is available, I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip070x.u8	Mr President, I would like to say at the outset that we will abstain from this proposal. We have had discussions on this in committee. On this occasion, Minister of Justice, you explained to us quite clearly that the two existing agreements were sufficient. The Vienna Convention and the Basel Convention are both designed to provide all facilities for the performance of diplomatic missions and there are no provisions that affect the privileges and immunities of diplomatic missions. If we put in parallel a chronology of the facts in the press, the Russian Federation has threatened to take action. Putin seemed furious about who was going on. When you combine these two elements, I wonder whether this bill is put on the table in response to Mr Putin's demands. That is why we will abstain from this text.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip070x.u9	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip070x.u10	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1241/6) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1241/6) The title was changed by the Committee to include an Article 1412quinquies in the Judicial Code, confiscating the property of a foreign power or of a public supranational or international organisation." The title has been amended by the commission by proposing a law inserting in the Judicial Code an article 1412quinquies governing the seizure of property belonging to a foreign power or to a supranational or international organization governed by public law". The bill has 2 articles. The bill has two articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip070x.u11	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip070x.u12	Proposals tabled by: Proposals submitted by: - 550: Meyrem Almaci, Georges Gilkinet, Jean-Marc Nollet, Kristof Calvo, Stefaan Van Hecke, Wouter De Vriendt, Muriel Gerkens - 679: Peter Vanvelthoven, Ahmed Laaouej, Karin Temmerman, Stéphane Crusnière, Dirk Van der Maelen - 1038: Jan Spooren, Zuhal Demir, Peter De Roover, Sophie De Wit, Wouter Raskin, Kristien Van Vaerenbergh. I propose that a single discussion be devoted to this bill and these legislative proposals. I suggest that you have a single discussion on this bill and these bills.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip070x.u13	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteurs are Mr Stefaan Vercamer, Mr Ahmed Laaouej, Ms Sophie Wilmès and Mr Marcel Cheron. Mr Stefaan Vercamer referred to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip070x.u14	Mr President, I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip070x.u15	Mr President, I also refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip070x.u16	Mr. Marcel Cheron also referred to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip070x.u17	Mr. Chairman, I understand that we are starting with the social aspect of the program law.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip070x.u18	Mr Laaouej, we will indeed start with the social aspect of the programme law and this morning will be entirely devoted to it. Members who wish to speak on this issue must say so now.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip070x.u19	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we come to the last day of this dark week, if I may say so. We are entering the final line of a real marathon with this important bill-program that contains many provisions that we consider to be very negative and even very harmful to the most vulnerable people in our society. There are, however, some positive elements that I want to point out and my point will be nuanced, as it should be. Some measures, although they do not go far enough from our point of view, are positive and we support them in principle. In particular, I am referring to those which help to combat social dumping, such as the compulsory registration of workers' presences, regardless of their status, in the meat sector. We are calling for this and we have had debates in committee on this issue of social dumping. Among the positive measures are the extension of joint and several liability and the strengthening of sanctions for false self-employed persons. These are points that go in our direction, such as the increase in the job bonus that we support and which is also included in our program. But these measures are not enough to cover up the negative aspects which unfortunately once again target the most fragile of our society. First of all, I would like to mention the unannounced control at home of job seekers. In this area, I feel like I'm going back 15 or 20 years. Indeed, you intend to introduce again, through this draft programme law, checks by surprise at the home of job seekers. The basic question is the individualization of rights. Of course, in the insurance scheme, both social benefit and unemployment benefit is an individual right which, in principle, has nothing to do with the family situation. We have known the situation for quite a few years. There is control of the family situation, because there are huge differences between the amounts of unemployment benefits, which go from simple to double, or even from simple to triple, depending on the category in which a beneficiary is catalogued. This debate is known and has not been settled. You are changing the control system by ONEM, which was the result of a subtle balance between the need to control, on the one hand, and respect for privacy and the inviolability of the home, on the other. I repeat, in order to avoid any amalgam or caricature: the PS condemns all fraud, including social fraud, because it is unfair - equality of citizens before the legislation. Moreover, social fraud undermines the system. In principle, there is no difficulty. But, Minister, we want to ensure a reasonable balance between the objective pursued and the rights of citizens. We also want a balance between the objective and the means used. Through this project, the government therefore eliminates the possibility of a first hearing in the ONEM offices. We are wondering about this, because this first contact allowed many files to be deflated. This procedure, this filter allowed to remove many misunderstandings, administrative errors. Therefore, we do not understand the merits of this first step. Today, home visits are possible, but within a legal framework that guarantees the rights of all, by allowing, for example, the job seeker to be assisted by a person of his choice (lawyer, representative of a trade union organisation, member of his family...) during this visit. The government simply decides to remove these guarantees, and we believe that this is unacceptable. What the government is proposing is to re-establish a practice that, for the people concerned – and for their families in fact – is considered humiliating and stigmatizing and that in the past has given rise to many abuses. We had the opportunity to hear a lot of testimony when the legislation was unanimously amended in the democratic parties, the majority and opposition of the time. We thought that the current system was unanimous. It seems that this is not the case. From the very admission of the ONEM, this measure would be of no use. The ONEM believes that it already has all the necessary tools to carry out checks. The testimonies of the investigating magistrates, who have also spoken, are eloquent. They say, in a carte blanche, that "one armes the ONEM with a bazooka to shoot at a fly" and they do not want to participate in an instrumentalization of the judge to legitimize the government's policy. This is how the investigating magistrates have expressed themselves in the press. We therefore do not see what can justify this reversal today, except perhaps a desire to stigmatise job seekers once again by referring to the image that they are not full citizens. By allowing an ONEM controller to come by surprise to the job seeker's home, you amputate this applicant with his most basic right to privacy. The argument is well known: the jobseeker will be able to oppose this visit if the latter is without a warrant. But it must be borne in mind that the people targeted are the most vulnerable, those who will not be able to refuse, who will be afraid to say no, who will feel compelled, threatened with recourse to an investigating judge, to accept that their most basic rights will be violated. For us, this aspect of the program bill is completely negative. Indeed, we are faced with the protection of privacy with variable geometry. We feel that the applicant is presumed guilty. In any case, it is certainly in this way that the latter perceives your device. I would like to reiterate that we do not plead for a system without control, nor for inefficient control. But if it turns out that the home visit must take place, it must be subject to a procedure whereby interference with privacy is closely proportional to the purpose sought. According to the case-law, the rule of proportionality postulates the exclusivity of the plea. In other words, a measure as restrictive as home control must appear as the only way to achieve the permitted purpose, which requires the exhaustion of all other evidence. This brings me to the second aspect of the social aspect of the programme law on which I wanted to intervene, namely the suspension of incapacity for work allowances for prisoners. The Government plans to suspend the right to work-incapacity benefits for the latter. According to the Government, in the event of detention, persons with disabilities are not entitled to any compensation. I would like to point out to the colleagues here that what is known as loss of earning capacity – a formula dedicated to social security – concerns people who continue to suffer from a disability or disability during their detention. A person with a disability does not lose his or her disability while in detention. That said, that is not the most important point. We believe that this is an ideological measure that penalizes not only the inmate by deepening his exclusion, but also his family. We are dealing here with an essential issue and a choice of society. Do we want to include, or do we want to exclude? In my opinion, this is a philosophical question. It is regrettable that in committee the majority rejected the requests for hearings made by a group of associations supported by the Socialist Group. In fact, civil society had asked to be heard by the Social Affairs Committee before it took a decision on the matter. I therefore regret that the majority did not consider it useful to hear from the actors on the ground. I recall that this collective is composed of the following associations: the League of Human Rights, the Centre d'Action laique, Brussels-Laique, the Assuétudes-Prisons Concertation Brussels, the Brussels Federation of Institutions for Detainees and Former Prisoners and the International Prison Observatory. Since this collective has not been heard or even listened to, I will give it the floor by quoting its analysis of your inmate bill. This collective says: "The abolition of the mutual compensation provided for by the programme law, debated on 10 June 2015 in Parliament's Social Affairs Committee, is a very worrying austerity measure. Without an in-depth analysis, it predisposes one of the most disadvantaged segments of the population, the inmates, as well as our societal social security project. The current regime was reviewed under the Dehaene government in 1996. It allocates only 50 per cent of the mutual compensation for an isolated prisoner, who is concerned not to reserve to him a more favourable economic fate than the free citizen. On the other hand, it maintains the entire allowance for the head of household in order to preserve the rights of the family. In particular, the idea is not to discriminate against the prisoner's family by deprivation of income. So we are not faced with an oblivion of history or a boon effect that the present government would correct. This is a choice of society, made almost twenty years ago, which is consistent with our social security project, namely that an allowance is not abolished without an analysis of the impact of this abolition on living conditions, regardless of the status of the target citizen. Meanwhile, the 2005 Law of Principle on the Legal Status of Prisoners and international law have enshrined the desire to guarantee basic fundamental rights to detainees. They are now considered citizens in their own right, subject only to restrictions on their freedom to come and go. Bill Tommelein contradicts the law of principle, the Constitution and international law. For the signatory associations, it is essential to study the social protection of prisoners not only in relation to their situation during the period of imprisonment but also in relation to the adjustment of the conditions of reintegration after leaving prison. The vast majority of prisoners will one day be released from prison and society wants the release to be translated into insertion rather than recidivism. An exclusion from social security by the impoverishment of this exclusion is a major obstacle to reintegration." With this quotation, the perspective of this collective, of these actors on the ground, will have been expressed in the gallery of the House and will be reflected in the proceedings of our proceedings. Ladies and gentlemen, by this measure, the majority will undermine two essential pillars of the prison system, namely the accountability of the detainee and the obligation to limit the harmful effects of detention. As a result, you are creating another major obstacle to the inmate's reintegration. Removing the few rights of the inmate will have a considerable effect on his family responsibilities. What would happen, for example, if the inmate paid alimony to his family? He is simply deprived of the material opportunity to fulfil his obligations. As a result, you also penalize victims by restricting the possibilities of restorative justice. It is therefore not only the detainee that the Government penalizes by suspending his allowances but his family, who must continue to live, to feed themselves, to pay his rent, his expenses, his invoices and, in some cases, the victim, when he has undertaken to compensate him, to compensate him. I would also like to stress that at this stage this measure also concerns the many people in pre-trial detention. The question was put by our colleague, Mrs Özen Özlem, in committee. I believe that it is Mrs De Block who has made a commitment that people in pre-trial detention are not affected by the measure. I don't see her. I thought Mrs De Block would be here this morning. It's obvious. This is understandable because, if this system applies to persons in pre-trial detention, it means that the government and parliament would completely flout the principle of presumption of innocence, which is one of the foundations of our rule of law. Mr Secretary of State, can you confirm that in any case, in a royal decree, persons in pre-trial detention will not be affected because it is the right that will lay down the conditions for the suspension of allowances. Is this royal decree already ready? What system will be put in place? Will the detainee retain his or her allowances until his or her judgment is served or will they be suspended and returned in case of acquittal? What if a prescription is required?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip070x.u20	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to confirm that benefits will not be suspended until full detention is in place, not in the case of internment or electronic surveillance. These benefits are to be suspended. Mind you, here only the legal basis is laid down, the King will still have to determine the conditions under which the granting of the benefits can be suspended. The implementing decisions under Article 105 will still have to be adopted. However, I can confirm that it is not the intention to add the internment to it; it will only be in force in the case of full detention.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip070x.u21	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, thank you very much for the report. I would now like to address the problem of index jumps on social benefits. The Government has specific provisions to ensure that index jumps are applicable to social benefits. We voted the text on the index jump on 22 April and a few months later you are making a correction, which means that it was written in haste. The government is obliged to plan roughnesses in order to correct this text on index jump, which proves that the basic law was inconclusive. Moreover, we do not see the need to apply an index jump on social benefits. Indeed, I would have liked the Minister for Employment, Mr Peeters, to explain to me the positive impact of the reduction in the incomes of pensioners on the competitiveness of our enterprises and on the creation of jobs. Unfortunately, he is not present and I will not have an answer. For all these reasons, the Socialist Group will not support this programme law.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip070x.u22	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, my speech will be brief. The N-VA Group had tabled a legislative proposal on the suspension of the right to disability benefits for prisoners in the event of pre-trial detention, but also in the event of more permanent deprivation of liberty. That proposal was subsequently included in the present draft law. I would just like to emphasise why we have tabled this proposal and why we also agree that it is included in the draft law. At present, the situation is that people in pre-trial custody or detention receive 50% of their disability benefit. If they have dependents, that is even 100 %. That actually creates an inequality between those who work and then are detained and those who are in prison. After all, the wages of people who work fall away when they end up in prison. Nor do they receive compensation for the loss of earnings, unless it is a pre-trial detention which turns out to be wrong afterwards. In this case, compensation for the loss of income can be obtained. In addition, ladies and gentlemen, there is also an inequality between the different categories of beneficiaries. Of those who benefit from unemployment benefits, a living wage or invalidity benefits, the benefit will be suspended if they end up in prison. It is also the case that a number of vital needs are being met in prison for prisoners. We absolutely must not say that our prisons are the Club Med, which is absolutely not true, but it is true that a number of basic needs are being met. That is, moreover, a logic which is also followed in the calculation of lost income due to a pre-trial detention which was unjustified. Here too, we are going to look at lost income, but some of it is being deducted, just because a number of basic needs were also met in prison. That is the threefold rational reason why we believe this measure is a good measure. At the same time, however, the question arises as to what the result is. There's a serious financial impact. Initial calculations have shown that for 2015, i.e. in half a year, the figure would still be EUR 3 million. From the following years it would amount to EUR 6 million on an annual basis. These are, of course, resources that can be used in our social security, for different categories of people who really need it. It is also a way of contributing a little bit to the affordability of our social security. We are therefore pleased that this provision is contained in the draft. Our group will therefore fully support the draft law for this reason and also for a number of other reasons. Moreover, it is also in line with the government agreement, which states on page 86 that the government would do something about the coherence between social welfare payments to prisoners. This provision is complied with in the draft law. That is why my group will fully support the draft law.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip070x.u23	Mr President, I am pleased to speak on behalf of my group in connection with the discussion of the draft programme law on the articles which have been dealt with in the Committee on Social Affairs. First of all, let me welcome the budgetary change to the new policy on mental health care for children and adolescents. The mental health care sector has long been the poor parent of health care policy and, in addition to the additional resources provided for in this project, it is necessary to develop new means of action and to develop another policy for the management of psychiatric problems of children and adolescents. This is what Minister De Block will do by working with federated entities and local actors to reform the mental health care landscape. That should be emphasized. Following the budgetary conclave, the government also decided to save €20 million on the costs of administering mutualities. This savings imposed on insurers represents 1.8% of their administrative costs of EUR 1.07 billion. This effort is of the same order as the efforts required of public administrations in general in the budgetary context we are experiencing. It will be recalled that the formula of parameters used for the calculation of the administrative costs of insurers will, rightly, be audited by the Court of Auditors since this formula of parameters dates back to non-existent years. It needs to be adapted to different developments. The magnitude of the effort requested is not exaggerated and we support it. I now turn to articles 21 and 22, which deal with the suspension of allowances for prisoners. The various branches of social security deal with social benefits for prisoners in different ways. The intervention of a social security sector is sometimes totally suspended, sometimes suspended partially or sometimes not suspended at all. It must therefore be noted that the legislator had to introduce more coherence with regard to the detainees. That is why the government agreement provides that the government will examine the consistency of the system of payment of social allowances to prisoners. In the present case, the measure is intended to suspend incapacity for work benefits during a period of detention or imprisonment. For these benefits, the same reasoning may apply to unemployment benefit. This is a replacement income: these allowances replace the remuneration which a worker no longer receives as a result of his or her work because his or her capacity is reduced by at least 66%. It therefore seems consistent to align the payment of disability benefits with the existing scheme in terms of unemployment benefits. I would now like to turn to the articles on the fight against social fraud. As stated in the Government Agreement, we wish to strengthen the fight against social fraud in all its aspects under this Parliament and to tackle the problem vigorously. Allow me to briefly introduce and explain some of the measures contained in this bill. First of all, we are going to introduce a system of registration of presences in the meat sector. In concrete terms, this will mean that every worker or self-employed person entering a slaughterhouse or cutting plant will have to be registered. It is a tailor-made system for this sector, which has been in demand for many years. Indeed, the social partners had reached an agreement in 2012 and unanimously reiterated their request in February. It was therefore high time to take that step. As a result, the inspection services will have an additional weapon to combat labour providers who exploit workers, often foreign workers, under unacceptable conditions. They will also have a better perception of people in slaughterhouses or cutting rooms – which is essential for their control mission. Finally, they will obtain information that will feed data mining and data matching, making targeted controls possible. A second measure contained in this programme law is home fraud. It is the repeal of a provision requiring ONEM to notify ten days before the unemployed person of an inspection at his or her home. I will briefly recall the situation. Until 2000, the legislation allowed social inspectors to carry out home checks without the need to prevent the unemployed. It should be noted that at the time the data mining system did not exist. As a result, the inspectors controlled all the beneficiaries without discernment, whether or not they were likely to have committed fraud. This had given rise to difficult situations. The law was therefore amended at the initiative of Mrs Onkelinx in order to introduce the obligation to prevent ten days before the beneficiaries who were to be checked. However, in its 2012-2013 report, the College of Attorneys General believes that this amendment introduced an ineffective control system. Indeed, in the present state of affairs, a person who frauds has ten days to be able to get in order. The College of Attorneys General therefore recommends that the situation prior to 2000 be reconsidered and that this 10-day period be abolished. I would like to point out that, despite what some have tried to make believe, these home checks will be carried out with the utmost respect for privacy. In fact, permission to carry out the home visit will be requested in writing and prior to the visit. The person concerned will therefore clearly be treated with respect. On the other hand, home visits will only be carried out in cases of strong presumptions following the use of the data crossing. As Mr Delizée said earlier, data mining and data matching have now been introduced in relation to the situation of some 15 years ago. Thus, thanks to a computer system, it is possible to select the beneficiaries who are in situations that raise questions. The vast majority of social beneficiaries being in their right will not be controlled. The difference from the "pre-Onkelinx" system is that the cohort of people who will be controlled is much smaller. It is normal that, thanks to the evolution of the means of control, they should be better targeted and thus give the arms to the controllers in order to be more effective. We are far from the image that some have tried to convey, especially in the press, of inspectors who will knock on the door of all the unemployed without discernment and who will enter the homes without having received permission. Let us not forget that if the social assignee selected by the computer system as potentially fraudster refuses despite everything that the controller enters his home, he will not enter if he is not in possession of a judicial warrant. The system is fully balanced and allows for more effective control of home fraud by the unemployed. A final measure in the fight against social fraud is the extension of joint and several liability for social and tax debts from the prime contractor to the prime contractor. For those who do not know what it is, joint and several liability means making the subcontractors of a company jointly and severally responsible for issuing orders, particularly in the framework of a construction site. If the subcontractor fails to honor its taxes and tax debts, the payer becomes liable. In this text, joint and several liability is extended to the final payer, i.e. the customer who has entered into a contract with this contractor. The latter is no longer the sole responsibility. This enlargement was desired by the actors in the world of construction. However, care should be taken not to go too far from some contractors who would not have obtained information about the contractor's default. It will require some discernment in control. In any case, the controllers are given an additional weapon to combat social dumping. That seems fundamental to me. Allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to conclude by presenting two particularly positive measures for the promotion of employment and the encouragement of creative workers. The first is the two-year extension of innovation awards. These provisions consist of the complete exemption of an employer's premium to its creative workers to reward the expression of a new idea implemented within the company. I therefore welcome the extension of this measure, which not only increases the productivity and creativity of our companies by rewarding innovative ideas, but also contributes to the well-being of our workers. The second measure is the job bonus. The aim is to use part of the EUR 127 million planned as compensation for the index jump so that the lowest wages can benefit from a further reduction in the costs. The government is doing two strikes here, reducing the burden, especially on these low wages, while supporting low wages and strengthening our competitiveness. It is also a way of fighting job traps. Employment is at the heart of the priorities of the MR and the government. I therefore particularly welcome this latter type of measure, especially in the context of the tax shift announced yesterday, which goes much further. I have thus presented to you the various comments made by the MR Group during this very rich debate in the Committee on Social Affairs in recent weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip070x.u24	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to speak on a particular aspect which concerns the social provisions of this programme law: the re-establishment of home visits to the unemployed, a symbol of the unsocial nature of the federal majority. Rather than dealing with the origin of the problem, the non-individualization of social rights, the government preferred to go back to legislation adopted under the rainbow government and re-establish legislation that undermines the dignity of social policyholders, considering them as potential fraudsters rather than as citizens who deserve to be helped while waiting to get back to work. By this measure, the ONEM is armed with a bazooka to combat a phenomenon, which is certainly critical, but which needs to be relativized in relation to other fraud mechanisms that are much more costly for the community, particularly with regard to tax fraud, for which the privacy scarecrow is regularly agitated to justify the inaction or lack of action of the judiciary and the police. What about a government that, in the same text, provides for a tax regime favourable to the diamond sector and decides to undermine the privacy of thousands of our fellow citizens in search of work? This concomitance is in line with the brutal and unbalanced action of the government. It alone justifies our negative vote on the programme law. I will come back to the tax provisions later to clarify other elements on which we are also opposed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip070x.u25	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to focus on some positive measures in this part of the programme legislation. First of all, with regard to social dumping - even if everything remains to be done through the royal decrees and, Mr. Minister, it is up to you to put them into practice quickly - I am thinking first of the innovation premiums and the employment bonus, which are the transposition of an agreement by the social partners and, secondly, of mental health for children and adolescents where the needs are terribly acute. All you have to do is know the sector to see it. I would like to draw attention to one of the issues that fall within the competence of the Minister of Social Affairs and Health: the suspension of incapacity for work benefits in the event of detention. The Minister has made a clear and formal commitment in committee that this suspension does not apply to internments in psychiatric hospitals, prisoners in psychiatric sections of penal institutions, persons in pre-trial detention and persons on electronic bracelets. We will ensure that these commitments are truly realized and that they are not just announcements made to make this bill look like a program bill. Mr Minister, it is obviously you who, in relation to these four points, must also make the same commitment. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, as regards the fight against social fraud by means of unannounced checks at the homes of the unemployed, following the position of the College of Public Prosecutors, you are amending the system and in fact applying the common law, the current Social Penal Code, as it already exists for other checks, such as those of the CPAS. If I do not have any problems with this measure, I remain dubitative as to the added value it is supposed to bring, since the ONEM already has this possibility, without prior hearing but with the permission of the judge, to carry out a surprise visit at home. In addition, case law has been widely established at the level of the ONEM, which, in case of doubt, applies the reduction of unemployment benefits, including retroactively for five years, and it is the responsibility of the jobseeker to bear the burden of proof. In itself, the mechanism is already in place. But I repeat, it is not a problem for me to apply what is already necessary at the level of other controls. In relation to the debate in committee, I am not in the camp of those who believe that everything can be allowed in the control of the self-employed, but that it is a sacrilege to control the correct use of unemployment benefits. On the other hand, in the transitional conclusion between the social side and the financial part of this programme law, Mr Minister, while this government is actively involved in the fight against social fraud, it must be noted that it is only the small Swiss canife on the fight against serious financial crime. For us, we need control and, above all, similar measures to combat social fraud and serious financial crime. That is not the choice that this government has made, and that is really a problem for us.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip070x.u26	Colleagues, I shall confine myself to three points in this part of the law-program. First, the question of the growth of the health care budget in Article 2. At first glance, we could welcome the increase in budget resources for the health care sector. However, the growth standard is reduced to 1.5%. This is the percentage whose INAMI budget can increase every year. Why is this an important point? It should be remembered that the 4.5% growth standard was introduced some 10 years ago. Why had such a growth rate been introduced? For several reasons: the growing ageing of the population, the health costs associated with the increase in technological advances in the sector, and a series of needs that were left out. Then this standard of 4.5% was reduced very quickly, initially, to 3% by the previous government; today, the current government is further reducing it to 1.5%. According to Mrs Maggie De Block, we are not going to feel this drastic reduction in resources. Everything can be solved by taking on waste, she says. But is this allegation really well-founded? If we look at the figures from the Federal Office of the Plan, we find that this is not the case, since the Federal Office estimates that health insurance expenditures must increase by 2.9% annually until 2018 if we want to maintain the same access to health care and the same quality of care. Historical and international trends also tell us that realistic growth in spending for OECD countries is around 3%. As I said, the government has only a 1.5% standard. As a result, every year patients will have to pay 1.5% more, i.e. 375 million euros, or, as is more and more often the case, do not need health care. It should be noted that in Belgium, 900,000 people per year, at least once a year, postpone health care for financial reasons. This means that the services provided to citizens will be less. In this context, the PTB is introducing an amendment to restore this growth standard to 3%. I am sure that the majority, concerned with quality health care and its accessibility for the population, will vote for this amendment. [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip070x.u27	Wasting? It is true that one might consider as wastage the fact that people can treat themselves. He's the one who said it! I'm not targeting you, Mr. Miller. Every time I come here, you always feel targeted! A second point that I would like to mention in this social part of the programme law concerns the administrative costs of insurers. These administrative costs are not as important as some may say. Some organizations manage complex materials at a relatively low cost. Government-funded administration costs represent only 3.5% of all health care expenditures. This rate is lower than in other European countries and, compared to private insurance, it is really very cheap. In the private sector, these costs represent 20 to 25 per cent. Over the past 10 years, the increase in administrative costs to mutual insurance funds has been 2.9% per year, which is less than the total increase in health care (5.3%) per year, and is even slower than GDP, which is 3.3% per year. In 2012 and 2013, the total budget for administrative costs for health care and allowances paid to the five funds even fell compared to 2011, while the volume of work continued to increase. According to the calculations, this represents a savings of 20%. We have therefore introduced an amendment aimed at putting that 20% back in the budget. This brings me to the last point I wanted to address, namely that relating to the home visit of recipients suspected of fraud. The programme law repeals the old provisions, which implies a return to the application of the Penal Code. Home visits are therefore planned as part of the fight against serious social fraud. The provisions of the Social Penal Code were not intended to combat the fraud of the unemployed by going to their homes, but to combat, for example, negriers, etc. This type of practice involves the intervention of an investigating judge who must give his permission, as if the investigating judges had only that to do! They will therefore be entrusted with this task when we know the lack of judges to combat the great financial crime, which the investigating judges complain about. What about the rights of the defence? There is an imbalance in the right-wing government. In major tax fraud cases, the defendants, who are defended by leading lawyers, especially from Avenue Louise, who are charged 600 euros per hour, are finally paid. [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip070x.u28	Thierry Afschrift, for example, who defended in particular the prince of Croÿ who was often acquitted because the great lawyers in charge of his defence did not fail to emphasize the fact that the rights of the defence had been violated. It is true that these are very important, especially when it is very rich people who pay very large fees! But when it comes to the mere unemployed, these rights are much less important! Until now, the unemployed could benefit from the assistance of a trade union delegate or a lawyer in the event of a home visit, but this is clearly no longer foreseen. The FGTB denounces the fact. I quote: "The procedure of the Social Penal Code is a general procedure which applies to all kinds of checks on social legislation, usually for serious acts, and which does not take into account the weak position of the unemployed. There is no obligation to provide information either on the purpose of the home visit or on the possibility of refusal. The unemployed person does not have the opportunity to prove his family situation in any other way. No assistance is planned either." It can be said that this rich government is attacking the poorest. Even if we look at this programme law, we see the imbalance between the social and fiscal aspects. In the tax section, we see that diamond dealers benefit from a tailor-made provision! We know that the diamond sector is involved in huge frauds, we talked about it with SwissLeaks, with the HSBC case. In the vast majority of cases, diamond dealers are targeted. Against these large diamond fraudsters, their request for a custom-made law of flat-rate taxation, as they have requested, is being met. On the other hand, the unemployed, who circumvent an unjust status of cohabitant simply to be able to survive, are in the collimator and it is even expected that investigating judges will have to be mobilised to combat this terrible fraud. I'll give you a few figures. With regard to home fraud, ONEM has recovered €37 million in recent years, corresponding to €3,500 per person. For Omega Diamonds, there were 2 to 3 billion tax evasions but they obviously benefited from a transaction that allowed them to pay much less. Finally, with regard to these home visits that apply to the unemployed, should not the public agents we are set an example? I'm referring to this series of videos you may have seen recently. These are videos to denounce home visits to the unemployed. These CSC videos work a bit like a demonstration by the absurd. The CSC filmed the home of public agents, ministers, parliamentarians and took somewhat absurd clues to show that the minister or parliamentarian did not actually live there. They repeat the exercise in several ministers and parliamentarians and the demonstration of absurdity works well since we see that on the basis of any criterion, one might suspect someone to have a false home. It works very well except for one of the people who is a member of this assembly. I will not quote him out of respect, but I simply say that he is the group leader of a majority French-speaking party. Above all, I'm not going to mention his name. When I saw this video, I was surprised because the demonstration by the absurd no longer works. One wonders if this would not be a real false home. There are several elements that raise questions. I am not the only one who has given me this reflection since a mayor of the southern region of Hainaut has made the same reflection that has been reported in Sud-Presse. This mayor wonders if the colleague in question really has his home at the place visited. The question I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, is whether we are finally here to set an example. Is it logical to vote for such a law on home visits for the unemployed when you are not necessarily clean yourself? Of course, we are in doubt and the presumption of innocence plays totally, but it is worth asking the question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip070x.u29	Mr President, our colleague's remarks were somewhat inappropriate. It's an ad hominem attack. Our group leader provided the relevant information. Yesterday, Mr Van Hees, you spoke with your group about the pensions of parliamentarians. Today, it is their home that is mentioned. When I was in the gallery last week, I do not regret at all that I made a distinction between you and the Democrats.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip070x.u30	Mr President, I would like to reply to Mr Miller. I think, and this is a constant at the PTB, that we have to set the example as public agents and that saying to the public "do what I say, not what I do" is quite unwelcome. In terms of pensions, this is particularly the case. It is in this context that we have stressed that the fall in the retirement age, which we impose on citizens, on workers, comes out of the conditions that we impose on ourselves. We have rightly denounced this measure and will continue to do so. As for home fraud, I recalled press articles that raised questions following the CSC's videos. In Sud-Presse, the mayor of Sivry-Rance, it seems to me, wonders in this regard. Again, I say that we must set an example. If you feel that this is not the case and that political agents are privileged and custodians of an old regime, it is your conception; it is not the concept of the PTB.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip070x.u31	Like Mr Frédéric, I would like to point out that the parliamentary status also applies to you. As for this kind of vocation as a white knight that will clean everything up, I point out that in the history of your political ideology, many examples have emerged. And this has always ended in a bloodbath for the population. Mr Van Hees, I repeat, I distinguish those who know that we can always improve the democratic system and those who have only one obsession: to put it down.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip070x.u32	Mr President, I am not going to argue too much. Denouncing unacceptable abuses and practices – and I will not come back with the history of envelopes in the MR – and saying that we, as parliamentarians, have to set an example, it is not populism.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip070x.u33	Mr President, I agree with what has just been said. I would like to point out that Parliament's status, which is not a privilege, is being eroded over its head. It is, moreover, the same for the one hundred and fifty elected who sit here. As far as pensions are concerned, Mr. Van Hees wasn't here. In any case, he will be entitled to his civil servant's pension and that resulting from his years on the benches of the assembly. He has the same status as us. Mr. Van Hees, I'm tired of reading counter-truths on social media. Under the previous legislature, the pension status of parliamentarians has been radically changed. Let me remind you that we went from 20th to 36th with the Wijninckx ceiling as a limit, the amount of which everyone knows. They're good pensions. The pension of the parliamentarian will always be higher and too high compared to that of my father who was a factory worker for thirty years! So we have to stop populism. Significant progress has been made in the area of pensions. If we listen to you, we'll all come tomorrow to sit under satut APE! I don't think we should exaggerate. This parliamentary status, which could be further improved, you enjoy it like the others! It is easy to give lessons. I don't know if you'll donate your pension when you're old. I'll call you and ask you. Try to measure your words even if it's sexy to throw numbers among the population. It's even worse if you talk in rough numbers. We must stop messing with the parliamentary institution!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip070x.u34	Mr President, it is true that there has been some development in the area of pensions. On the one hand, this evolution concerns the age at which a person can retire and the number of years. This development is not yet up to date for everyone. The old system coexists with the new one. On the other hand, I note that, even in raising the conditions for parliamentarians, this remains particularly advantageous in relation to the bill extending the pension age for all workers. It seemed to me that you were fighting this project. We do not say that parliamentarians must work up to 67 years. We want workers not to be forced to work until they are 67 years old. It is not normal for a majority of parliamentarians who voted yesterday for this extension of the pension age to be privileged over harsher conditions for all workers. It's unfair! We are obliged to denounce him. It is a pity that the whole left does not denounce it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip070x.u35	Mr President, I would like to thank my fellow Members for their contributions to the various elements of this part of the programme law. I'd like to talk about the sickness benefit for inmates. As I said just now to Mr Delizée, it is not about people who have been temporarily taken into custody. It is only the intention to suspend the disability benefit in the case of full detention. So it's not when you wear an anklet. The Royal Decrees to implement them are still being drawn up. It is therefore only intended to ensure that unemployment benefits can be suspended if they are fully detained. As far as the fight against residence fraud is concerned, a number of members referred to the tax fraud of this government. Yesterday, I heard Minister Van Overtveldt clearly say that the plan to combat tax fraud is in full swing. I regularly see articles that say that tax inspection services will be strengthened and that additional people will be recruited to do so. The tax fraud cell in my colleague's cabinet is also in full swing. So I do not think that this government believes that tax fraud should be dealt with in a way other than social fraud. I have to say, as responsible for the fight against social fraud, that the weighting of the various forms of fraud in this assembly is rather ridiculous. It is not because the fight against fraud is directed at one particular element, which is less effective and therefore less important and less socially relevant. Total residence fraud amounts to EUR 36 million. I have reservations about this, especially when I heard the last debate. The aim is indeed to combat all forms of fraud. It is quite clear that in 2012 and 2013, the College of Attorneys General had already expressed serious reservations about the control system which had to be announced in advance when an address for service was to be checked. We have weighed everything very well, including in terms of privacy. By the way, the Privacy Commission has given a positive opinion, in the sense that people are not harmed in any way in their rights. Moreover, it is not the intention to walk down the streets and ring the bell in an uncontrolled manner to check residence fraud. There must be serious indications before a dossier is drawn up and an on-the-spot check carried out. The controls are needed. I do not see why people who are ill should be checked at home and people who are unemployed should be left at home. Moreover, a number of cases relating to unemployment fraud in the recent past have shown that these are not always small cases. The infamous file on the C4 fraud in Ghent involved more than two thousand people involved and amounts in the tens of millions of euros. Rejecting fraud with unemployment benefits as a hunt for the little man, while leaving the big ones untouched, is totally unjustified. These are fraud mechanisms. I can tell those who criticize it that the fight against social dumping is one of the priorities of this government, if not the priority. If this is done as a hunt for the little man, then this is contrary to what is living with public opinion today, what is living with the employers, what is living with the unions and whatever lives with the man in the street. I believe that the fight against social fraud is a very important element with a very broad public support. We shall continue to do so in full.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip070x.u36	Minister, thank you for your further explanation. I persist and sign. I have no problem with measures relating to social fraud, but I denounce the double standards that this government introduces between social fraud on the one hand and the serious financial crime on the other, against which the government intends to fight against the small Swiss canife. Despite what you say, however, it is the true nature of your action, and it is regrettable.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip070x.u37	Thank you, Mrs. Fonck. Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? This concludes the debate on the social aspect of the programme law. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Friday, 24 July 2015, at 2.15 p.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Friday 24 July 2015 at 2.15 p.m.
