ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic180x.u1	Minister, the government's decision to generalize the electronic meal voucher as early as 2016 will have an impact on the validity of paper meal vouchers issued this year: their validity will be reduced by one month each month. As a result, the paper meal vouchers that employees will receive in January will be valid for 12 months, those that they will receive in February will be valid for only 11 months, those that they will receive in March 10 months and so on. In summary, all paper meal vouchers issued in 2015 will expire on 31 December, guaranteeing the complete and final changeover to the electronic version on 1 January 2016. The rapid perishability of these meal vouchers is likely to greatly increase the amounts not collected by workers. We have, under the previous legislature, obtained a legislative amendment to combat this lapse by increasing the date of use. Minister, what will happen to unused paper meal vouchers as of December 31, 2015? Can you tell me what the possible expiry period for electronic meal vouchers will be? Is it possible to transfer the uncollected amount via paper meal vouchers to the electronic account?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic180x.u2	You can ask your second question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic180x.u3	Minister, on March 7, 2013, the bill extending the validity of meal vouchers was unanimously passed in plenary session of Parliament. A little more than two years after the publication of this law, I wonder about the effects of this law, both in terms of economic activity, of food businesses and of certain specific aspects of the system. Minister, can you tell me what results have been observed as a result of the extended validity of meal vouchers? Can you tell me about the month after month trends in the number of lost or expired cheques, the consumer's behaviour and the impact on the activity of food shops? In your opinion, does the overall balance sheet resulting from this provision prove to be negative or positive?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic180x.u4	Mr President, Mr Clarinval, as you know, the Royal Decree of 29 June 2014 provides for the complete generalisation of electronic meal titles and, consequently, the disappearance of paper meal titles as of 1 January 2016. The paper meal titles not used on that date will therefore be out of date. However, I recall that the decree of 29 June 2014 was published in the Belgian Monitor on 24 July 2014. This should leave ample time for the various actors concerned to take the necessary measures, in particular in terms of information about workers and employers. In opinion No. 1902 of the National Labour Council, the social partners expressly expressed the wish to move definitively and completely to the system of electronic meal certificates on 1 January 2016. To avoid that after this date there are still paper and electronic meal titles at the same time, the latest paper meal titles to be issued to workers will have to relate to the September 2015 benefits. In addition, all paper meal titles to be distributed in 2015 will only be valid until 31 December 2015. I would point out that in this respect the social partners have studied explicitly and extensively the possible systems of transition and exchange of cheques. However, these paths were not retained as they would lead to more red tape. Consequently, the social partners opted for a derogation of a main validity period of 12 months of paper cheques issued in 2015, but also stressed the need to highlight this point in particular during the information and promotion campaign, both for workers and for traders and employers. The duration of the electronic meal titles, however, will remain at twelve months. According to the data collected by the Agency for Administrative Simplification, as at 30 November 2014, 78% of employees were already receiving meal certificates in electronic form. This proportion will certainly increase further this year. We can therefore expect an almost complete disappearance of paper meal titles at the time of the definitive transition to electronic meal titles. That is why I do not believe that a transitional measure to transform these into such measures is necessary. As regards the effects of the extension of the validity of meal vouchers, I would first like to point out that the definition of the concept of remuneration in the Act of 27 June 1969 and in the Act of 29 June 1981 refers to the Act of 12 April 1965 on the protection of workers' remuneration. Article 2 defines remuneration as "the wage in cash to which the worker is entitled by the employer and on the basis of his commitment". The benefits which can be assessed in cash, but also in kind, are therefore in principle a remuneration on which social security contributions are due. However, various benefits in kind are explicitly excluded from the concept of remuneration, on which social security contributions are calculated pursuant to the Royal Decree of 28 November 1969. For example, meal vouchers are excluded from the concept of remuneration. Therefore, they meet certain conditions. No contribution shall be calculated on the benefits which are explicitly excluded from the concept of remuneration. These benefits should not be reported to the NSSO, so the NSSO cannot provide any statistical data related to them. In particular, with regard to meal vouchers that have been lost or expired since the extension of the period of validity of the meal vouchers to twelve months, only those issuers of meal vouchers that are private companies could answer your questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic180x.u5	Minister, thank you for your answers. Of course, I am in favour of an electronic cheque system. Far from the idea of challenging this initiative, already adopted by 80% of companies. I just wanted to draw attention to the validity of one month of future cheques, because of this degressive system. We risk having cheques that are valid only for one month while the validity period is one year. Also, I thought there would be transitional measures. I understand that the proposals have not been accepted. It will therefore be important to inform consumers as accurately as possible that the meal vouchers they receive at the end of the year will only be valid for one month. However, you are telling me that benefits beyond September 2015 would automatically be in electronic format. As early as October, the hours worked will be paid in electronic format. We'll be waiting for January 1st, if I understand correctly.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic180x.u6	To avoid too much reserve.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic180x.u7	That sounds smart to me. By not fixing January 1st and already allowing October to sell the cheques, we generate an anticipation of a few months. I'll keep that information. Let me turn to my second question. I'm familiar with the meal check system. According to the information available to me, provided by one of the four operators, the law that we passed two years ago allowed the number of cheques lost or expired to be divided by four. In 2013, 0.38% of the cheques were lost or expired, or 6 million euros; today they are in the order of 0.10%. So we saved 4 to 5 million for a single operator. There are four operators, so it is more than 10 million euros that I believe have been saved by this law. The purpose of my question was whether the figures of the other three operators were the same or not.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic180x.u8	We do not have these figures. Operators have access to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic180x.u9	Can't you ask them? This is simply the rate of lost or expired.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic180x.u10	It is not our job to ask operators for such information.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic180x.u11	It is simply the enforcement of the law. This would allow us to assess the effectiveness of the law. One of the operators gave me the information.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic180x.u12	That's his right. If operators want to communicate this data, they have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic180x.u13	It was to assess the relevance of legislation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic180x.u14	You can ask others, but I can't. The law does not provide for this.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic180x.u15	There's no problem. Thank you for your answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic180x.u16	Mr. Speaker, Madam Minister, in the previous Parliament, new provisions relating to artist status were adopted. This reform, decided in haste, with a blatant lack of consultation and information from the sectors, had two components. The first concerned unemployment-related regulations and the second concerned the establishment of an Artists Commission. It is on this last point that I would like to question you. The article of the program law of December 26, 2014 relating to the Artists Commission came into force on January 1, 2014. He delegated to the Artists Commission the task of issuing to artists a professional visa enabling them to apply Article 1bis. This professional visa will only be issued to artists who will be able to demonstrate "the artistic nature of their performance" before this commission. It is also responsible for providing artists with an artist's card allowing them to use the Small Indemnities (RPI) scheme. The implementation of this hasty reform has been tedious, which has put many artists in difficulty. The Royal Decrees of 26 March 2014 supplementing the social status of artists and laying down the procedures for granting the artist's visa and the artist's card, and of 17 July 2014 bearing the composition of the Commission have now been adopted. However, it appears that discussions are currently under way to adopt new regulations, including by you, while an appeal is pending before the Constitutional Court in respect of all the legislation I have cited. It is also our responsibility that almost 3,000 files have already been submitted but that no visas have been issued by this Artists Commission. The "artistic flou" that has prevailed since the beginning in this issue seems to be still relevant. Minister, would it be possible to take stock of the establishment of the Artists Commission? Where are we now? Will you make changes to the original project and, if so, what changes will they be? Are these legal clarifications or changes of a different nature? What procedures will be put in place by the Artists Commission to determine the artistic nature of the performances? Given the scale of the task, does the Commission have staff? How will the process be supported in terms of human resources? Do you intend to hire staff? Are the forms already provided for the artist card? Will an information campaign be set up vis-à-vis professionals? Can you clarify the articulations that will be made between this angle, namely the social status of artists and the unemployment-related provisions of the reform? We know that today, de facto, many artists are unemployed. Finally, the artist's visa is currently intended to enable artists to value their benefits under a social security scheme for employed workers, where all the conditions are not met for the normal establishment of a contract of employment; this is Article 1a. Is this legislation intended to evolve in your opinion and could this visa be intended to limit access to artistic services only to holders of this visa?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic180x.u17	Madam Minister, my question is in line with Mr Hellings' question about the Committee on Artists, but is also more generally about the artists' statute. Those who want to engage in artistic activities in a professional way in our country can choose between three options: self-employed, civil servant or employee. In turn, the artist-worker has three more possibilities to organise his professional artistic activities. This can be done through a contract of employment, through a social agency for artists or on the basis of the presumption of employee status. The latter is the so-called 1bis regulation, which Mr Hellings has already mentioned. Through the latter arrangement, the artist can then remain protected as an employee and also build up the same social rights, despite the fact that there is actually no authority and therefore no contract of employment can be concluded. That is what one usually means when talking about the social status of the artist. The attractiveness of the system is that one can build up social rights, benefit from lower RSZ and VAT rates, and also claim health insurance and unemployment benefits. As far as unemployment benefits are concerned, the law once again provides for many exceptions to the classic scheme. For example, it is necessary to prove less benefits in order to benefit from the unemployment scheme, to be able to work at the same time and to maintain the same level of benefit for a longer period of time. Problem is that they run the door wide openzette for improper use by the artist. It appeared, for example, that cleaning women, house painters and cable-laying workers had also made use of the Statute. In this way, a cheap form of employment was created at the cost of social security. At the end of 2013, the previous government has already tried to limit the abuse by, among other things, providing for the so-called visa for artists. The intention is that anyone wishing to avail themselves of the 1bis regime should apply for such a visa from the Artists Committee, with which he can prove that he does indeed meet the definition of artist. It also introduced an artist's card. This card is intended to implement the system of small fees, where there is no subjugation to social security for small-scale artistic services. That card should guarantee both the client and the artist that there is no submission to the RSZ and that the presumption of 1bis does not play. However, we hear from the Artists' Office that the Artists' Committee is not yet operational. As a result, it is not yet in a position to issue artists' visas or cards, which means that it is necessary to fall back on the old rules which, as I said, open the door to abuse. Madam Secretary, first of all, what stands in the way of the installation of the committee? Secondly, what measures have you already taken or are you planning to install the committee? Thirdly, how many artists are employed as employees, self-employed or civil servants? Is there an evolution in this over the years? Finally, do you have any figures showing the extent to which the 1bis regime was used and/or abused?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic180x.u18	Colleagues, this is a case that I inherited. As soon as I took up my duties, I took this issue very seriously and instructed my administration to start working on it. The philosophy of the original draft remains the same: it is only a question of seeing what still needs to be done so that the Commission can deal with the dossiers as soon as possible. As far as the functioning of the Artists Commission is concerned, texts have yet to be published. The Commission will be set up within the Social Security SPF. The administrations concerned shall consult seriously on the human and logistical resources to be made available to the Commission. A revision of the criteria on the basis of which the Commission determines whether an activity is artistic or not, also laying down a common definition with the unemployment rules, is foreseen. The Commission secretariat and the administration are working on a visa and artist card form. As you probably know for Article 1bis, the determination of the status of artist is currently made on the basis of the sector of activity in which the performance or work was created or performed. In addition to this criterion, the Artists Commission evaluates on the basis of a methodology determined in its rules of procedure whether the person concerned provides services or produces works of an artistic nature. I assume that this does not include cables and cleaning women. The ONEM, for its part, applies the definition of artistic activity contained in the royal decree "unemployment". Harmonisation of definitions would be desirable in order to ensure legal certainty for artists. That is why I asked the administration to work in this direction. My primary aim is to ensure that this committee is able to clear the backlog and that it can issue visas in accordance with Article 1a. The committee will be set up by the FPS Social Security Office on 1 June 2015. A first meeting is scheduled for 3 June 2015 in the premises of the FPS. In cooperation with all the institutions involved in the creation of the Committee on Artists, we have succeeded in releasing both the logistical resources and the personnel-related and budgetary resources necessary for the functioning of the committee and which could not be found under the previous legislature. So the problem was that nothing had happened to it in the previous legislature. Mrs De Coninck, I only have figures on independent artists. They date from December 31, 2013. At that time there were 14 885 self-identified artists who, as a natural person, pursue their professional activities. These figures include both primary and secondary artists and those who remain active after retirement. In the fourth quarter of 2014, 10 714 artists were reported as employees. There were also part-time employees; they were actually 3 470 full-time equivalents. We are indeed seeing a development compared to ten years ago. In the fourth quarter of 2004 there were 5 702 artists. On the basis of the statistical sheets of the Rijks Sociale Security, no distinction can be made between artists indicated in accordance with Article 1a and artists with a contract of employment. I cannot give you figures about the artists' officials, because we cannot distinguish them from ordinary artists. They are counted among the artists with a pay-paying profession. There is no separate code for that category. The system has been introduced to avoid abuse of Article 1a. Where inspection services detect abuse, regularisations are also possible. For example, checks were carried out at the request of several auditors by the RSZ, the Social Inspectorate, the Department of Supervision of Social Laws and the RVA. I cannot give you precise figures of the number of individual files relating to the artist's status and submission to the RSZ in connection with the checks. In other words, it cannot be taken out separately. The discussion about this has long been ongoing. The artist's statute was founded by Frank Vandenbroucke. I was still a member of the Social Affairs Committee at the time. I fully agree that artists should have a statute and be able to build rights, but I have always warned that it could be abused by people who are not artists but simply seek a way of exempting their activities from normal social contributions. That problem is still topical. We will have to continue to evaluate the statute. The committee will be there on 1 June, in a few days' time, and will start immediately.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic180x.u19	Minister, thank you for these answers. You are right that you are inheriting an extremely complex case that has been handled a little abruptly and not always serious by your predecessors, Mrs. Onkelinx and Mrs. De Coninck. We are talking here about the visa and the artist's card, which basically concern only a minority of artists because the bulk of them depend on the unemployment law which was revised at the end of the legislature passed by Mrs De Coninck and which restricted the access of some artists to the status of unemployed. Today, in the face of the precarious situation in which some artists find themselves, we must not insist on abuses. There's probably some, and we have to fight them. But it is important to be able to have an artist status that leaves a series of artists from this precarious situation in which they find themselves. It is also important to realize that if you are articulating the law today and if you want to think, in committee, in order to define the status of artist and to put it in parallel with the same legislation at the level of unemployment, you should not enter into too restrictive conditions that would cause many artists to end up at CPAS. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that probably if Van Gogh lived in our time, he would be leaving the CPAS. This did not prevent him from doing magnificent works on which many Belgian citizens and around the world are ecstatic. We must be able to give ourselves the means to maintain and give a specific framework to the artists who allow them to create the works of today and tomorrow that we will continue to watch.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic180x.u20	Madam Minister, thank you for your comprehensive and clear answer. I am pleased that you take this dossier to heart and consider it important. We are also thinking about the importance of the artist and we note that the statute, which was drawn up at the time, is now a bit undermining the credibility of the art world. I am therefore pleased that work will be launched in June and that the monitoring of existing legislation will be effectively implemented. In the long term, a specific statute is not in line with our party's position. However, we must pay attention to the specific situation of artists. We see solutions in different forms of financing than in giving special statutes, which we see more as a form of pampering of the artist. With alternative forms of funding, they can also fully focus on their artistry and develop it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic180x.u21	This must be possible in our social security system, because you must, of course, take account of the social legislation in force. Pension rights and social rights must be built up. I realise that social legislation is a blur, but we have nevertheless sought a solution for the artist in social legislation. We can agree on an alternative financing for a cup of tea or coffee. I will be very interested in the outcome, because I have always been very intrigued by the way in which we can give everyone a social status, of course within the existing social legislation. I can follow your reasoning Ideologically, but there are the legal limits.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic180x.u22	In Germany, it seems that such systems already apply. They offer an alternative view.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic180x.u23	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Jadin's 3321 expires.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic180x.u24	Madam Minister, in the absence of one or more teeth, there are generally two options: a removable prosthesis with brackets on the remaining teeth or a fixed solution through a bridge or implants. Scientific studies have shown that a prosthesis with brackets leads to complications more quickly due to the damage of the brackets around the remaining teeth and because the brackets prevent optimum cleaning of the remaining teeth. Bridges and implants have a higher setting cost, but they are much more durable and also protective for the remaining teeth. Do you consider reviewing the refund in the absence of one or more teeth and focusing on more sustainable solutions, such as bridges and implants? Why is that, or why not? How do you feel about granting the scheduled refund for a removable dental prosthesis for a bridge or implant, so that the patient can choose for what he uses the available budget? Do you have plans to reduce the currently very high cost for patients?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic180x.u25	Mr President, Mrs Van Camp, first of all I would like to stress that removable prostheses in patients over 50 years of age are regarded in the existing scheme as an important form of basic care. In addition, there can also be more refund for so-called comfortable and more durable prosthetic amenities, in which I can fully follow you. Rather than opening the nomenclature for removable prostheses to bridgework and implants, we want to use a clear scheme whereby for this type of care rates are agreed in the compulsory health insurance. One can create a nomenclature number, but then there is no refund yet. That's where the shoe pinches. Implants are an expensive affair. There is a very limited nomenclature for placing two osteo-integrated implants with a base in the jaw and a superstructure in the oath lower jaw, which is a toothless lower jaw in which otherwise no anchor can be attached. This applies only to patients from 70 years of age. The aim is to extend this nomenclature on the basis of the budgetary resources available for this purpose. The National Committee on Dental Medical Funds and the Technical Dental Council are aware of the need to extend the nomenclature. Last time, with the new dentomut agreement, we asked for some things to be paid back, with a view to more sustainable oral constructions. That is something that has been addressed. However, that is still a long way off. Technically they have constantly evolved, but the reimbursement has not been followed. That doesn't mean those people with their mouths running out of teeth. They can continue to rely on removable prostheses, but implanting a few basic pillars and attaching a dentures to them is a more sustainable solution. The jaw lasts longer if a tooth remains present in the bone, either an implanted tooth or its own tooth. Dental care still requires a lot of work, but it has to go through the dentomut. The Technical Dental Council is also looking into this.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic180x.u26	Madam Secretary, that sounds good. We are pleased that an improvement is coming. We'll follow up on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic180x.u27	Mr. Chair, Madam Minister, I thought that this question would be forwarded to Mr. Peeters, to whom it was originally addressed. On 1 October 2014, a law making it compulsory to declare any person employed by domestic workers as an employer entered into force. In fact, every citizen who uses the services of a person today to carry out housework of a manual nature (lessor, iron, gardener, etc.) is considered to be an employer and is therefore required to declare any domestic staff to the ONSS. In addition, those who employ domestic workers must make a Dimona declaration, an electronic message by which they communicate the worker's entry into service to ONSS. Secondly, employers will have to pay the necessary social contributions and take out insurance for accidents at work, a precaution that has been taken in the past. The administrative formalities and costs of this new law are such that they would discourage the best wishes. Test-Achats advised individuals to direct their employees to service securities companies rather than to make a direct commitment. Moreover, housekeepers – now called "surface technicians" – who are accustomed to their independence will certainly not want to work for title-service companies and those who hire them will often want to maintain their professionalism. So, Madam Minister, how many spontaneous statements from domestic workers' employers have been introduced in the last four months? Has there been a rush of registrations in service securities companies as a result of a possible shift of domestic staff to these companies? What the administration intends to do to simplify the procedures so that they can be more accessible to ordinary individuals (i.e. setting up a one-stop shop, Banque-Carrefour, etc.).( )? Does the government intend to increase controls in individuals? Wasn't there massive cancellations of "household" insurance contracts, for fear of being denounced by insurance companies that had to apply for registration numbers from ONSS? This situation, you will admit, would be dramatic in terms of the protection of workers, even in the dark, in the event of an accident.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic180x.u28	Minister, my colleague has just recalled the existing rules and their evolution since October 1, 2014. So I won't mention them. In practice, domestic workers, for domestic and manual tasks, are now subject to the social security of salaried workers. Casual domestic workers, employed for intellectual tasks for a maximum of eight hours/week, are not subject to liability. We have been asked by those concerned with this development of legislation, in very different and very broad areas of activity. That's why I'm asking you. How many spontaneous statements have there been from domestic personnel employers since 1 October 2014? Has there been an increase in registrations in service securities companies as a result of a possible shift of domestic staff to these companies? What will the government do to simplify procedures and make them accessible to citizens employers of domestic staff who are now subject? For them, the situation is much more complex than before. Does the government intend to strengthen controls among individuals? Has there been a significant number of cancellations of "household" insurance contracts in practice? This could provide us with guidance on possible slippages as a result of this regulatory change.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic180x.u29	Minister, for the past few months, 24-hour low cost home assistance services have emerged. Several companies taking advantage of the European workers' posting system propose the low-cost provision of sick guards from the Eastern countries. This process provides families with the opportunity to provide family members, the elderly or the sick with home care for reduced costs, but raises questions about the qualification of staff. These workers in the East receive a wage of around 900 to 1,000 euros. In addition to this low wage, they provide hours of work well above what the legislation allows. In addition, they are housed on site and must be available 24 hours a day. At home, in approved structures, the sick-guards are active for nine hours, are part of a team and are covered by insurance through the ASBL which employs them. They benefit from guidance and continuing training, which is obviously not the case for these low cost companies. Minister, have you been aware of the existence of these companies? If so, have we already checked whether the services and skills of these home helpers meet Belgian standards? Indeed, in CPAS, in approved NSOs, municipalities or intercommunals offering such services at home, employees are required to obtain a diploma of an auxiliary type, multi-purpose, family or health auxiliaries, nursery, etc. I think that in order to ensure professional service for the sick and the elderly and control, these low cost companies would have to require their employees to produce at least one form of training from their country of origin or to take appropriate training in Belgium. There are therefore two aspects in this dossier: on the one hand, a social dumping aspect and, on the other, a training aspect. Perhaps the training aspect concerns regional governments, because it is they who impose the criteria through different decrees. Nevertheless, I wanted to question you because it affects public health. This is not just a question of training. I'd like to have your opinion on this case.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic180x.u30	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, your question has two aspects, one of which relates to the subjects dealt with here in the Committee on Social Affairs, but the other relates to the Committee on Public Health. If necessary, you can ask additional questions. Following the implementation of the ILO Convention 189, a social status for domestic workers has been foreseen since the fourth quarter of 2014. Since 1 October, there have been 332 new registrations of employers who have stated that they want to employ domestic servants who carry out manual household work in the service of a household, an employer or his family. It is called category 37. These figures refer to the request to be registered as an employer of domestic workers. They are therefore employers who have indicated that they will be employing staff in this category from a certain date. Of this total of 332 employers registered as employers of domestic staff, 311 have completed a Dimona and 21 have not yet returned. However, in the case of employers who have successfully performed a Dimona, it cannot be deducted from the declaration in the case of category 37 or any other activity, since this information must not be mentioned. However, I can inform you that compared to 2014, the number of employers who reported quarterly with category 37 clearly increased in the fourth quarter of 2014 to 900 (for less than 700 in the previous three quarters). For 2015, these figures cannot yet be reported as the first quarter returns are still being processed. As soon as everything is declared, we will be able to have the figures and see if this trend continues. With regard to the issue of service titles, this jurisdiction was transferred to the Regions on 1 July 2014. In the interests of administrative simplification, I do not think it appropriate to create a specific system for about 300 employers. The social inspection does not intend to strengthen controls on individuals and only carries out checks on the basis of relevant information, i.e. complaints. At the moment, there are no statistics available to answer the question on insurance contracts. From our figures, it is also impossible to deduce how many policies concerning domestic workers were interrupted in the fourth quarter of 2014 or the first quarter of 2015, especially since these figures also contain other categories of personnel not subject to the ONSS than domestic workers. For the quality of training, this is a skill that can be discussed with the Regions. The quality of training is important for health care, but we can only verify it if there is a check or complaint.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic180x.u31	Mr President, I do not have much to add. There will have to be some verification over the duration of unsolicited statements. We will have to see what is happening in terms of data cross-checking, but it concerns Mr Tommelein more than the minister. I'll probably talk to him.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic180x.u32	Madam Minister, thank you for this information, particularly the figures. The service titles have been regionalised but with regard to the figures you give for this scheme, I imagine that it is likely that there has been no rush of registrations at the level of service securities companies. Otherwise it would mean that there is an explosion on both sides and it is difficult to imagine in such a short period of time. After a period of time, it will be necessary to examine whether people who introduce files are experiencing too much difficulty. This issue has indeed become much more complex. It should also be considered whether the administration should not introduce simplification procedures in order to try to make them more accessible to all citizens who can become employers of domestic staff. Finally, I would like to make you aware of the insurance aspect. I fully understand that you were unable to provide me with figures. Still, at some point, we will have to take stock with the insurance companies. Indeed, if insurance contracts for domestic workers were to be terminated massively, this could have dramatic impacts in the event of an accident at work.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic180x.u33	Madam Minister, I see that you have not really been questioned about this. I wanted to approach this issue from a federal perspective. In the end, it is posted workers who offer a service identical to that offered by an approved sector. I would remind you that in 2012 Belgium had tried to answer this question by means of a specific regulation, the principle of which was quite simple. In this context, where, in a national court, a social security institution or a social actor finds an abuse as provided for by that regulation, the employee or, at least, the person who performs a certain work is subject to Belgian social security. You told us that we were not controlling, but that we were acting only as a result of a complaint. So I guess you didn't get one.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic180x.u34	We're not going to carry out any checks in the houses where people were reported either.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic180x.u35	No, but these are low cost home help companies, such as health care workers, elderly care providers, etc. –, not private individuals. In the future, some importance should be attached to this, as this tendency to hire low-cost employees will increase with the cost of staff. This has been noted with regard to Dimona statements which still need to be filled in.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic180x.u36	Questions Nos 4077 and 4231 by Mr. Daniel Senesael were postponed. Mr Veli Yüksel is not present. His question No. 4334 expires.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic180x.u37	Madam Minister, the Foundation Against Cancer recently addressed the distressing situation of self-employed people with cancer through a media report. I think we can see it more broadly. When self-employed people are seriously ill or are diagnosed with cancer, they often get into trouble. These may be financial problems and problems with their case, because they not only have to be able to pay the cost of treatment, but also have to incur costs to keep their case open. On the one hand, their costs continue to go on and, on the other hand, they often lose customers when they are not always able to work because of their physical situation. Is the FPS Public Health aware of the problem, and what does he do about it? What possibilities are already available for self-employed workers? Is there a safety net on which they may fall back in the event of a dragging illness? What additional measures do you think should be taken, possibly in cooperation with your colleague, Mr Borsus, who is responsible for small businesses, the self-employed and SMEs, in order to better protect the self-employed against the financial consequences of cancer or other long-term illness?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic180x.u38	Mrs Lanjri, the self-employed are covered by their benefit insurance in the event of a complete cessation of work because of illness. In order to obtain benefits for primary incapacity for work or invalidity, you must first be recognized as unfit for work by the medical adviser of the sickness fund to which you are insured. The prior condition for receiving that benefit is a complete cessation of any occupational activity. The allowance starts after the 28th day of incapacity for work. It used to be after three months, but that period has been reduced. The allowance shall continue to be paid as long as the consultant acknowledges the selfemployed person as unfit for work. In addition, the selfemployed person may combine part of the benefit with a professional income in the event of a partial resumption of his activity, with a declaration to the medical adviser. It is therefore a fairly flexible system which allows the self-employed to remain in contact with their customers or to maintain their professional activity in the event that they would recover and resume their activities in full. The possibility is granted only if the resumption of the occupation is compatible with the health of the worker. So it is true that the professional activity is being taken into account. The sickness funds and the representative organisations of the self-employed have been engaged in discussions in the RIZIV for several months on more specific measures to improve the possibilities for partial resumption in case of illness. That process runs in parallel with the process that I started for the employees as well. The aim is to find specific solutions for the self-employed. The Centre of Expertise on Inability to Work of the RIZIV is preparing a study to better describe the follow-up of the self-employed who suffer from a serious illness. A lingering disease such as cancer, which is still the first cause of mortality in our country, is, of course, one of the priorities to be explored. I have only talked about the measures within the framework of my powers. I therefore refer to Minister Borsus for all the additional information on the existing measures under the social status of self-employed workers. With us, it's only about labor. It is possible to resume work part-time. People are human in that and they offer enough flexibility. There can therefore be greater flexibility for other diseases with a erratic course, with chemo and so on, and therefore a rather variable activity. Of course, that has to be framed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic180x.u39	Madam Minister, I am struck by the fact that there is an arrangement after 28 days for the cases where the activity is completely discontinued, after which it is stopped or partially resumed. That's a good thing. The working group in which you are active could examine whether there should be a concession for self-employed persons who, fortunately but not fully stop their activity and temporarily try to keep their business running part-time or part-time, thus allowing them to survive during that period. Now we have to stop everything, losing our customers and then providing help and compensation and possibly starting again half-time. I think that is a good thing in itself, and a large group will certainly be helped, but the question is why we should allow it to come to this. Should we not support the self-employed who are still able to stay at work half-time, for example those who, on the days when they are not receiving chemotherapy, can still keep their business open? Then their case doesn't bleed to death. Now they will only receive aid if their activity has ceased completely for a period.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic180x.u40	That's the law. In the past, the law required three months of complete cessation of activity and not part-time activity. Now the law demands 28 days. If one has something serious, then one comes to those 28 days.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic180x.u41	I understand.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic180x.u42	The law on incapacity for work must be completely revised and there is nothing in the coalition agreement. I have to ask what is on the table at the time of the discussion, but it seems to me that we will be moving towards greater flexibility and not interfering at the basis of the law. Suppose something happens to a person and he says from the first day that he will still be able to work, but less, and that he will still receive sickness or disability benefits.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic180x.u43	No, but you know what I mean. Instead of saying to self-employed people who suffer from long-term illness that they should first bleed out and stop shopping to help them recover afterwards, it might be an idea to build in a certain degree of flexibility, under very strict conditions and not for anything. Then the people who are able to continue their activity at a low rate from the start of their illness could also receive some form of support in the form of a benefit.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic180x.u44	Mr President, Minister, there has already been a call in the past for further harmonisation and rationalisation of detention benefits. If you are in prison, you are not entitled to a living wage, unemployment benefit or an income replacement allowance for disabled people. However, it is possible to obtain benefits for accidents at work and occupational diseases as prisoners. Pensions are also paid, but only during the first year. In the case of an invalidity benefit, the scheme varied so far, and it must have had its reasons. Prisoners with dependents continued to receive their full invalidity allowance, but single persons received only half of the initial amount. I have heard that it is the intention not to grant any more benefits to inmates, not even invalidity benefits, even if they have to support a family. Madam Minister, I understand that you want to harmonise things, but my main concern is to put families in trouble. Is this information correct? What kind of benefits are we talking about specifically? When would this arrangement start? Are prisoners with or without families treated in an identical way in the new scheme, or is it only about prisoners with no family burden? How many prisoners' families are affected by this measure, for what amount? So what savings would this measure generate if it were implemented? What alternatives are possible to accommodate the partner and/or children of a detainee who fall without means of subsistence when the detainee goes to prison and loses his benefit?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic180x.u45	Mr President, Mrs Lanjri, as a result of the March budgetary control, the entire government has decided to refuse the granting of the benefits from 1 July 2015 to the person recognised as unfit for work residing in prison. This principle of refusal of invalidity benefits applies to any beneficiary, regardless of his or her precise family situation. By means of a provision in the Programme Act, the Government will implement this decision. A Royal Decree will also lay down the specific conditions and modalities for this refusal to grant benefits during a stay in prison. With this measure, the situation with regard to sickness and invalidity benefits will become identical to that already in place for unemployment benefits. Both benefits are intended as a replacement income. They must compensate for the loss of wages that the worker would suffer as a result of illness, accident or unemployment. When an employee who works or who is self-employed has to go to prison, he also suffers loss of earnings. It is obvious that the selfemployed person will no longer have an activity and that no employer will be prepared to continue to pay a worker's salary during captivity. It is therefore recognised that the contract of employment can no longer be implemented. The person concerned is therefore no longer entitled to a wage. It is therefore an equalisation with sickness and invalidity insurance, which is not intended to compensate for a loss of earnings that is not due to illness or accident, but to the fact that one is talking about a prisoner. It's about 1 600 prisoners in our country. I believe there are now 11 000, so we are talking about less than 10%. The resulting savings are estimated at EUR 3 million for 2015 and EUR 6 million for 2016. Where appropriate, the partner and/or children of the inmate may rely on a social assistance system if they themselves have insufficient means of subsistence. For example, the partner of someone who works but has to go to prison can apply for a living wage on that basis. Now this is already happening this way for the family of someone who worked before he had to go to jail. That will be the case. Honestly, I think it's a tie that can be justified.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic180x.u46	Minister, I certainly understand your plea to harmonise a number of things. In prison one also gets bed, bath and bread. I therefore think it is only logical that the person concerned should not receive benefits at that time. However, I am talking about the consequences that often exist for the family. I would just like to express my concern about this. If there is no family income other than that of the partner in prison, then the family will suffer. You say they can go to the OCMW. That's right, as far as they don't own property. It'll be charged.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic180x.u47	There's an income check for those who rent houses. For those who have their own home and live in it, it does not matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic180x.u48	Yes, it is. It's being deducted. It's being settled.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic180x.u49	I checked it today. I was still responsible for social integration. One is entitled to a living wage, even if one owns one's own home.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic180x.u50	It'll be settled.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic180x.u51	It is charged for the amount, only above a certain AI and so on.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic180x.u52	That's right. I did not say that there is no right to support. One is entitled to a living wage if one has no other means of existence. With someone who does not have to rent and lives in his own apartment, it is settled to determine the level of the living wage.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic180x.u53	Depends on the cadastral income.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic180x.u54	Yeah, but it's true it's being settled. I would like to express my concern about this. You make the comparison with people who work. I would argue in favour of finding a solution for that group.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic180x.u55	One can take into account the home situation and see the problems that arise at the time when one does business involving a prison sentence. That could help. When a person who works ends up in prison, his partner has no income and can claim a living wage. It seems to me to be a high rate of disability and occupational diseases in prison. That's almost 10%. They will continue to enjoy an income.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic180x.u56	I thought it was 1 600.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic180x.u57	That's a lot. The numbers scare me. This means that a large shift to the OCMW is taking place for that group or for a large part of it. Of course, this is not much in the overall figures of the OCMW, but it does imply a shift. What one saves in one department, one will feel in another.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic180x.u58	No, it's not always like that. Some families of those 1 600 prisoners will now also have a living wage.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic180x.u59	A limited number, because the partner can have an income.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic180x.u60	Yes, but they will also have a living wage.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic180x.u61	Part of it, but not all of it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic180x.u62	I am concerned that someone who works and finds himself in such a situation is worse off than those who enjoy our social security.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic180x.u63	I share your concern about this. I don't have an excuse for the inmates. We agree on this, but I am concerned about the family and the woman, who cannot help it that their husband has done something. The wife and the children will suffer. I would also like to place this situation in the context of the fight against poverty.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic180x.u64	I believe that they need more guidance, also by an OCMW, because then the situation of the family can be looked at. For example, this woman could also be employed in the OCMW under Article 60 and can then be integrated into society. The OCMW has an accompanying role to play for people who have gotten into trouble, because if someone gets into prison you've seen it, then he doesn't have one but a lot of problems.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic180x.u65	I hope the concern will be taken away...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic180x.u66	Absolutely.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic180x.u67	...that we should avoid forcing these families into poverty. We must support them, both financially and mentoring them.
