ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-11-54-commissie-ic166x.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, I would first like to give the Minister an opportunity to make an introduction and to respond in the order in which the questions have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-11-54-commissie-ic166x.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as I announced during the plenary debate last Thursday, I will return to the last B-FAST mission to Nepal in today's sitting. First of all, on behalf of our country, I would like to reiterate that our thoughts are with the Nepalese people. The earthquake two weeks ago has become a human disaster. Thousands of people lost their lives, lost their loved ones or became homeless. Many NGOs, including Belgium, are now trying to provide as much humanitarian aid as possible. I would particularly like to thank the volunteers at B-FAST for their work and for their commitment in the first days after the earthquake. I'm proud of that. Despite the difficult and chaotic conditions in Nepal, they have made every effort to help the people affected. They provided medical and humanitarian assistance to the people, they also left tents, field beds, blankets, tables, chairs and electricity facilities in Nepal. The NGOs on the ground will continue to use that material. Although it is still too early to draw definitive lessons from the disaster, after all, European international coordination will also have to be evaluated with all the partners involved, I can already give you some elements today to clarify our recent commitment. I will give a chronology of the main decisions and action points. On Saturday, April 25, a severe earthquake struck Nepal, with 7.8 on the Richter scale. Especially the urban area of the capital Kathmandu and the valley of Kathmandu were affected. During this period there are many foreign hikers and climbers in this region. In the same morning, UN OCHA activates its UNDAC network. European UNDAC volunteers are also asked to be on standby to carry out an assessment. International media also report at that time that the damage in Kathmandu and its surroundings is significant and that international assistance will be needed. At 13:00 the European Union in turn activates the European Emergency Response Coordination Centre. One and a half hours later, the Centre distributes Nepal's provisional humanitarian aid application, including USAR teams. Formal communication is later distributed among EU Member States. You know B-FAST can't just decide on a bet. This can only be done after the affected country asks Belgium for help directly or through the European Union or the UN. It is then decided to convene the planning committee on the same evening. The B-FAST Planning Committee meets at 19:00 and discusses the Nepali Government's request for assistance to the European Union, as well as the initial assessments on the disaster. At that time, our embassy in Delhi and the honorary consulate in Kathmandu confirm the severity of the damage in Nepal. Nepali demand concerns both aid workers and relief products. The Planning Committee looks at the various options for sending out aid workers. The B-FAST Planning Committee identifies two modules that can be deployed directly, the Urban Search and Rescue Team (USAR) and the Advanced Medical Post (AMP). Due to the specificity of the disaster, an earthquake and the severely affected urban area of Kathmandu is proposed to develop the USAR team. This USAR team fits with all its equipment on the plane A321 offered by the Defense Department. The transport of a field hospital, which requires a larger transport capacity in terms of material, would require at least two aircraft, namely the A321 and a C-130. The joint development of USAR and AMP would require a larger aircraft, namely an A330, which could not be used immediately. Based on previous experience with logistical problems during previous intercontinental operations, the aim is to keep the team and equipment in one aircraft. The use of an AMP light, consisting of a dozen medical profiles with additional material but without a shelter, is also discussed. However, according to the health experts, such an operation does not comply with the international standards of the WHO and, unfortunately, cannot be taken into account. In addition, a USAR team also always has its own doctor and a number of nurses, who are initially intended for their own team. However, from their humanitarian attitude they can equally well provide medical care to the local population, although of course on a smaller scale. On the basis of these elements, the Committee defines the commitment of B-FAST, namely a USAR team with a base camp of 43 people, including search and rescue, team management and generic support functions. Transportation to Nepal is regulated by the Defence through an Airbus A321. On the same evening and at night, the Coordinating Council was informed of the deployment proposal. All members responded positively. The proposal was then submitted for approval by the Council of Ministers. This took place at last Friday's sitting in accordance with the formal procedure. Contacts have been made with the collaborators previously. Sunday, April 26, 2015 is fully part of the preparation and departure of the B-FAST – USAR team. 7 a.m.: assembly and palletization of equipment at the B-FAST store in Puisie. 10 a.m.: the equipment is loaded into Airbus A321. 1:00 p.m. The team members were also gathered in Puisie, including an on-site medical visit. 3:30 p.m.: departure of the team to Melsbroek. 4 p.m. The Minister of the Interior, my colleague Deputy Prime Minister Mr Jambon, and the Nepalese Ambassador were greeted the team with, if I am not mistaken, a press meeting that was held at that time. And at 6:00 p.m., the B-FAST team helped load the A321 so that it could take off from Melsbroek to Nepal at 8:37 p.m., while the first request referred to had taken place the previous day at 1:00 p.m. and a meeting of the Committee took place at 7:00 p.m. After a stopover in Bahrain, the Airbus was diverted to New Delhi. Indeed, the Nepalese authorities no longer admit flights, despite oral commitments that an exception would be made for humanitarian missions. However, the B-FAST team managed to send an advanced post to Kathmandu on a Spanish humanitarian flight. Together with the Honorary Consul of Belgium in Nepal, she tried to facilitate the arrival of the rest of the team, international partners and the press spending the night in New Delhi. The feedback of April 28th of the Kathmandu post confirmed congestion and chaos at the airport. Neighbouring countries such as India, Pakistan and China sent registered humanitarian teams, but especially many others that were not. Their planes therefore seized the operation of the Kathmandu airport. In the afternoon, the airport authorities finally granted permission to the Belgian Airbus. An hour and a half later, the team arrived in Kathmandu and set up its base camp with its Dutch counterparts who had landed the previous day. Other European USAR and medical teams, including the Czech Republic, Italy, Norway and Spain, arrived in Nepal only the following days. On 29 April the A321 will return to Belgium with 127 passengers, 45 Belgians and 82 other EU citizens on board. As the agreements on international disaster coordination prescribe, B-FAST was allocated a sector through the UN team, the city of Gorkha, about a hundred kilometres from Kathmandu, in rural areas. The USAR teams of Singapore and Spain are also heading in this direction. A first assessment will be carried out on 30 April. This shows that there is relatively little need for a USAR team. The damage in this sector is not that great. However, the coordination of aid on the ground is still in the hands of the Nepalese army at this stage, which does not provide easy access to the higher villages. In addition, there appears to be little knowledge and even some suspicion of international aid teams in the local authorities. This determination obliges the team on the spot to consult with colleagues in Brussels. It is then decided to use the team as widely as possible, independently of the pure research and rescue activities. The civil protection experts, who make up the bulk of the team, have been trained to carry out a wide range of aid activities, as they do with us in Belgium. For example, more attention will be paid during the remainder of the mission to the provision of humanitarian aid, including medical assistance, the restoration of crucial infrastructure networks and utilities. Meanwhile, reports have been published in the Belgian press that B-FAST's mission would be cancelled. During the evening briefing by the team leader the possibility of an exit strategy is discussed. However, the final decision has not yet been taken. The media therefore interpret this prematurely as the end of the mission. On 1 May in the evening, both the EU and the UN announced that the deployment of USAR teams should be phased out and that the humanitarian aid phase would be completed, with B-FAST already cooperating on the ground. A day later, the formal demand for withdrawal follows, thus continuing the exit strategy. The Belgian team returns on 5 May with the Dutch aircraft with which the Dutch USAR-people are also brought back. At the same time, the teams of Poland and Denmark, among others, have already left. Part of the material from the base camp is handed over to local stakeholders for two NGOs. Last week, many people made themselves heard about the execution of this mission. Some have been very critical of the choice of means involved. After the facts, it is always easier to point an accuser finger! At the time, the B-FAST team could be fully justified due to the express request for such teams, the availability of appropriate transport and the rapid mobilization of the team. The proposal has not only been validated by the Foreign Affairs Committee, but also by the six colleagues of the Coordination Council. At last Friday's college session, the whole government again validated this B-FAST mission. Does this mission deserve an evaluation? Obviously, as a follow-up to each mission abroad, we will also learn from this mission. This was agreed not only at last Friday's Council of Ministers, but also in the government agreement which states in this regard that "in the context of urgent humanitarian aid, and in particular with regard to the international scope of action of B-FAST, the government will focus on increasing the efficiency of this interdepartmental platform and will seek synergies and associations that could improve its functioning". By the end of this year, and inter alia on the basis of the ongoing evaluation, concrete proposals will be made to further modernise the emergency humanitarian aid system through B-FAST. At the Belgian level, several evaluation sessions will be organised in the coming days and weeks. A first general meeting has already taken place and a new one is taking place today. It is clear that we will have to make a greater commitment to modernising the structure, given the budgetary reality that we are facing, and this is probably not going to be a sinecure. It is our duty to the few hundred volunteers, who take this humanitarian work strongly at the heart of a purely altruistic point of view, to see how to further strengthen the approach. The proposal to reactivate the Opinion Committee will be the subject of an analysis and consultation with Belgian partners on the ground, such as the Red Cross or MSF. Everyone must realize the relatively short time frame within which a decision must be taken. In this regard, I am being asked to consider how to further accelerate a government decision. Let us not forget that the political decision to intervene was taken within 24 hours of the earthquake. I am prepared to consider how to speed up the procedures, but, I repeat, the decisions were taken within 24 hours and I gave details of the schedule for the implementation of the mission. However, an evaluation will not be limited to the Belgian level. We will also address the European partners and the United Nations. International coordination must be organised more effectively. The introduction of more and more international standards obliges us to have a deep reflection not only on the capabilities to be offered but also on how to engage them and the time within which this will best be achieved. These international standards also show the need for further consultation at European and international level. The Haiyan crisis had already highlighted that during a humanitarian operation there are practical obstacles: for example overflight, collaboration with local authorities, logistical problems (transport and security) in the affected area. All these obstacles must be overcome in order to ensure the deployment of a mission. The international community must also learn the lessons of the crisis in Nepal and of the capacity to organize the reception and start-up of the various relief needs. In the context of the Haiyan crisis, I had pleaded with the then European Commissioner, Kristalina Gueorguieva, for enhanced European collaboration, particularly in the area of regional capacity pooling. These conclusions were gathered in a non-paper which I personally delivered to the European Commissioner on 29 January 2014. I think you have discussed this issue in the days that followed. A copy is available to Parliament. Other teams had been involved in the current deployment of the B-FAST team, including colleagues from Luxembourg and Germany and staff from the European Union and the United Nations. We try, for each mission, to see how to bring together other actors. As I recall, Belgium has been able to count on transport organised by our Dutch colleagues for the return. Such synergies deserve more attention. In fact, they will promote response and availability times. In this regard, Defence colleagues will have a particular role to play, particularly because they are a preferred logistics partner in the implementation and conclusion of our operations. As far as the cost of this operation was concerned, it had previously been estimated at EUR 300 000. In addition to air transportation of crews and equipment, this figure included operating costs, medicines, telecommunications and personnel and insurance costs. Although the final figures have not yet reached us, the final cost of this mission is not expected to be more than €180 to €200,000. This is due to the fact that B-FAST brought other European relief teams with it, which would give rise to a financial repayment through the European mechanism. A dossier is currently being studied within the European Commission in this area. Moreover, the fact that B-FAST came back with Dutch colleagues obviously reduces the possible costs of returning. As far as development aid for Nepal is concerned, I can only repeat that Belgium has allocated EUR 35 million for flexible funds for 2015. These are joint donor funds managed by international humanitarian organisations to respond immediately to acute needs. For example, the Central Emergency Response Fund of OCHA immediately released EUR 15 million for the crisis in Nepal. In addition, the USD 300 000 will be released from the World Food Organization's SFERA fund for the benefit of the affected Nepalese population. Both amounts therefore contain part of the Belgian contribution. Development cooperation also monitors the situation in Nepal, but as the rescue works are still in progress, the balance sheet cannot yet be finalised. It should also be borne in mind that in recent years development cooperation has financed several projects in Nepal for water treatment and WASH activities. Thus, through such initiatives, Belgium contributes to the general preparation of disaster-sensitive countries. A lot of expertise is also present at B-FAST in this area. In recent years, this expertise has also been made available to the UN, which aims to assist other countries, particularly in Africa, in capacity building through training modules. In 2013, B-FAST was the keynote speaker at a seminar organised by ASEAN. Our method and methodology were praised, by the way. In conclusion, I would like to say that this crisis also has a consular dimension. From the outset, it became clear that a relatively large number of compatriots were staying in the region. In doing so, the Crisis Centre immediately opened a call center which allowed to monitor the situation of about 245 Belgians. A permanent consultation was held with our embassy in New Delhi, with our Honorary Consulate in Kathmandu, supported by a colleague from the department on a trip to Nepal at the time of the events, with the European Union partners on the spot and in the capitals. In addition, proactive communication with families was organised in Belgium. We were thus able to gradually reduce the list of people without news of their closeness(s). Our compatriots who had arrived in Kathmandu in the meantime have always been able to count on the assistance of our Honorary Consulate and have been able to return to Europe or elsewhere, with or without his assistance. Unfortunately, we still have no news from one of our compatriots. Our services are mobilized on the spot to try to find him and help possible family members who would like to visit the region. That, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, is what I could tell you about this operation. I repeat that we will carry out evaluations and we will have an opportunity to see, by the end of the year, whether there are proposals for improving the functioning of B-FAST operations. I would also like to stress two points. First of all, we must remember the speed with which we must react. I have read fairly mixed comments on this. According to some, we should wait longer to have an assessment of the situation on the spot; according to others, we should leave earlier. I confess that mobilizing volunteers and setting up logistics in less than 48 hours (24 hours to make the necessary decisions and take off from Melsbroek) does not seem to me to be an exaggerated period of time. I recall that the first request was sent to us around 1:00 p.m. on Saturdays, and that the B-FAST team took off on Sundays at the end of the day. We could, of course, try to shorten the time for intervention, but we must be aware that teams and equipment must be assembled, if possible in collaboration with neighbouring countries, in order to minimize the transport to be carried out. Secondly, I regret – like some of my colleagues in the government who spoke on this subject – the sometimes political games, including within the teams, that we were able to attend during this operation in Nepal. Sometimes it would be desirable to clean up in certain political formations. In fact, communal councillors from different communes belonging to the same political party spent their time criticizing each other in the mission. We will remind all concerned to order by asking them to become aware of the fact that it is not a question of mobilising members of our administrations by asking them to carry out a mission on behalf of the State. It is a matter of mobilizing volunteers who accept, under often very difficult conditions, to leave, hoping to be as useful as possible. Here, they were useful. Firstly, because we were able to quickly repatriate a number of compatriots and citizens of other European nationalities. Secondly, because they were able to deliver a number of medical or humanitarian supports on the ground. Finally, because they were available in case their first specialty could have been used immediately. Remember that these interventions are carried out in a systematic manner in countries experiencing a chaotic situation following a natural disaster. These are the details I wanted to make, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on the understanding that when we come to the government by the end of the year with proposals for improving the functioning of the system, I will of course be sure to share them with the committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-11-54-commissie-ic166x.u3	Thank you, Minister. I propose that we now give the floor to my fellow Members to respond in the order in which the questions were put. Mr De Vriendt's question, which had fallen off the questionnaire, will be added at the bottom of the list. So he'll be the last to ask his question. Members who have not submitted a question will then be given the opportunity to reply. I call Mrs Grovonius.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-11-54-commissie-ic166x.u4	Minister, I have already asked you about this situation during the topical questions of 30 April. As I did at the time, I would like first of all to pay tribute to the dedication of the people who work for B-FAST on a voluntary basis, as you yourself recalled. So you won't hear me question their commitment – it's not in my intentions. The dispatch of these forty-two relief workers demonstrated a rapid response and also reflected a desire for international solidarity in response to Nepalese demand. Of course, the situation subsequently became complicated by the presence of various actors such as the United Nations, Europe, etc. It was in this context that we intervened. However, as is unfortunately often the case when such a humanitarian disaster occurs, some haste may lead to the disruption of international aid. On the basis of good intentions that I do not dispute, each country and each NGO wanted to start a race against the clock. There is, however, a lack of cooperation in this regard. In Kathmandu, OCHA, the Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs, suddenly had to coordinate fifty international relief and research teams, including fourteen from the European Union – without any intra-European consultation. This situation is really problematic. Whether within the United Nations or at the European level, questions arise in terms of effectiveness in coordination. As you said, an evaluation of our on-site intervention must be carried out independently. I am almost convinced that the elements that I have just developed will be pointed at. What could also be highlighted is to be able to reflect today more generally on medium- and long-term aid in this country, which is ranked among the poorest in the world. Indeed, it is essential to strengthen local actors, including relief teams, and to succeed in enabling the development of functioning local public policies and in providing access to basic social services in Nepal. But there we are entering another debate that would deserve us to take time to reflect, far from the media, and to ask ourselves about emergency humanitarian aid in general and how it is organised today. I sincerely hope that we can take the time to carry out this debate and to carry out this reflection by fully integrating the question of B-FAST and the added value that such an actor could have in our emergency humanitarian aid. We really need to take the time to discuss it and to think about how it is organised in the Belgian and international contexts. You made an introductory presentation. However, I still have a few questions to ask you. At the human level, what is the situation for the people of Nepal today? You've only made the point as far as our nationals are concerned. With regard to evaluation, as is always the case, there will be one for the B-FAST mission in Nepal. Is this evaluation already underway? Has it already been achieved? I don't think so, otherwise you'd have already revealed something to us. But if this is the case, would it be possible to have the conclusions of this first evaluation already? On a more global level, we heard the government's announcement to conduct an evaluation of B-FAST. Can you tell us in this context whether it has already been decided who will conduct this evaluation? What will the evaluation focus on in a very specific way? How long should this assessment be conducted? Is the evaluation also planned to focus on coordination issues at European level and therefore on the implementation of a structure such as the EU-FAST but also on coordination at international level? Thirdly, I would like to ask you about our assistance in the medium and long term on the spot. I would like to know whether a humanitarian financial intervention from our country is planned to meet the dire needs of this country in addition to the 35 million that were already programmed at the base if I understood correctly. How is it planned to work with Belgian humanitarian NGOs that are organised within Consortium 12-12, with your cooperation colleague in particular? Potentially, and I do not know if this is the case, but in the case of regional and Community intervention, are there any intra-Belgian coordination mechanisms provided for in this framework? I come to my last question. Once the media had been silent, the cameras had been turned off, and the general public might no longer pay any attention to the situation in Nepal and to the disaster that had just occurred in that country, I would have wished to know what our contribution to the reconstruction of Nepal would still be and what our contribution would be to the long-term strengthening of the country's capacity, at a time when regrettably this government was talking about cuts in the budgets of Cooperation and the limitation of the number of partner countries for our assistance to Cooperation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-11-54-commissie-ic166x.u5	Mr Minister, as you know, this subject is of particular interest to me. For many years, I led rescue teams at earthquake sites. The first was in Mexico City in 1985, thirty years ago. And thirty years ago, we already knew what was no longer needed to be done with regard to relief, in the event of serious disasters and in the event of an earthquake like the one that has just occurred in Nepal. I have spoken on many occasions also when it comes to Haiti or the Philippines concerning B-FAST. My remarks do not in any way call into question the commitment of the teams, their skills, their professionalism that I want to salute like the whole government. Nor do they question Belgium's generosity and the speed with which the teams deployed. It is simply not suitable for such disasters. The WHO has just recalled this. But already thirty years ago – they were precursors – the professor of City of Goyet (UCL) who at the time led the centre for the epidemiology of disasters, said: "The sending of so many teams (53 teams, 4,000 rescuers), is a disaster in the disaster". He said that thirty years ago and we have not learned enough from these lessons of the past. Today, we have bitter teams – I really regret it for their commitment and dedication; we also have a result – I know you don't like this term – which is not one of them. How many lives have we saved? This is ultimately the only criterion! The criterion is not speed. The criterion is effectiveness. How many lives have we saved in Nepal? Probably none! That is what we must look at for the future. How could we save hundreds of human lives in the future? Because we have the opportunity, because we have the expertise, because we have learned and should learn from the past, because we can, at European level, better coordinate our aid, because we have to anticipate this kind of disaster. There are earthquakes every year in the Himalayas. We remember Pakistan, we remember China. There was India, Bhutan. Every year, major earthquakes occur. We know that emergency plans need to be put in place. They must be carried out with local authorities. Exercises must be carried out with local populations. Stocks must be pre-positioned in the regions. There's no point in crossing the entire planet. We'll always be too late! Thirty years ago, I went to Mexico City. MSF teams have indeed remained at dockside and we have learned that it is no longer necessary to do so. I therefore do not understand why today we are trying to repeat devices and operations which, unfortunately, are doomed to failure. When I say unfortunately, I really think that our teams deserve better than that and the people we are supposed to save – because that is what needs to mobilize us – deserve much more efficient help. I told you that this is a subject that I care about because, in Haiti, our plane was also hijacked and it could not land immediately. After a few days, our teams transferred the hospital to NGOs. During the few days we were there, for security reasons because at the time it was under the aegis of the Defence, medical teams were forced to take refuge every night at the airport for so-called security issues. Every night, we left the wounded in this hospital. In the Philippines, Idem! Our plane was hijacked. He was only able to land in Tacloban thanks to the extremely firm intervention of our ambassador. This is a welcome development, but it shows that he must defend his cause in relation to other countries, other embassies. It's not good! We finally got to Tacloban. Here, too, we finally found that our hospital had to be transferred to an NGO after 48 hours of intervention in the Philippines. I really believe that we need to learn the lessons so that in the future we can save human lives in such great disasters. Once again, this must be done at European level. Here we have the means, the motivation, the experience and the generosity. They must finally be effective. It is not just a matter of boasting of having been faster than any other medical team. That doesn't make any sense! What makes sense is how many human lives we have saved. Of course, speed is one of the criteria, but it is not the only one. Far from it. What is important is to see how many human lives have been saved. We need antennas on the spot. We need to know what means of civil engineering are going to be able to mobilise, what are the elements of mobility. As we know, in the first few hours and days, we need very heavy means. It's civil engineering that saves a lot more human lives than dogs. Civil engineering must be mobilised at the outset. They're huge cranes, bulldozers. These are elements such as these that need to be mobilised. Of course, they must never be transported from one end of the planet to the other, but we can know where they are, in India, Nepal, Bhutan, etc. We can have contracts that are carried out in advance with the operators who are there to be able to mobilise them when necessary. That is what we must be able to do in the future. Mr President of our committee, I would like to see a serious assessment at last. I care about B-FAST. I want this mechanism to be much more effective than it is today. I think we need an evaluation of our committee. I hope that hearings will be held. I would like to hear from the World Health Organization (WHO), which has a disaster relief department and has asked relief teams to leave the area quite quickly. These teams, unfortunately, were not operational and other types of rescue, for those who had survived, who were not under the rubble, could not be delivered. Millions of people need shelter, food, water. Who is providing this relief today? Who's here today? It is another element that must mobilize us. You have to send teams that can stay there not for several days or weeks, but several months if necessary! The disaster will continue for several months in Nepal. Death will be very high in the coming weeks. That's where you have to be, too. Humanitarian aid must be allowed to spread over a significant period of time. I would really like us to have these hearings and, as the B-FAST teams have requested, an independent evaluation. The co-signatories of the letter published yesterday or today ask for an independent and, I think, international evaluation. For this reason, WHO should be involved. The fact that there is also an internal evaluation seems to me to be extremely interesting and important. I welcome the Foreign Minister's proposal to come back here before the end of the year with proposals to improve the functioning of B-FAST. But it is also important that we have an external look at B-FAST. Again, it is not a question of removing this device, but of ensuring that it is as effective as possible, that we can say that we have saved human lives. Unfortunately, I have not yet seen many recent missions for which we have been able to report such a record. Six months ago, I asked the Minister of Foreign Affairs for B-FAST's reports. At the time, no one was talking about B-FAST, but it's a subject I care about. I have also tabled a motion for a resolution for an EU-FAST at European level under the former legislature, which was adopted unanimously. I wanted to do the evaluation of B-FAST. Unfortunately, the minister did not wish to respond to this request for the transfer of reports. I did not want to make it a parliamentary question. Minister, I have sent you a letter personally and you have replied that you do not wish to send me these evaluation reports. I think we should be able to have the evaluation reports after each B-FAST mission. I don't see why these reports would be secret. These reports must be able to be transmitted to Parliament. It seems to me essential and important for our Parliament to have access to these documents. An assessment is needed, in order to prepare ourselves for announced disasters. We are well aware that, in several countries, climatic conditions are such that typhoons and cyclones are becoming increasingly violent and frequent. We could store stocks in these areas to respond more effectively in the future. That is the essence of what I wanted to say, Minister for Foreign Affairs. Again, we must not blame our teams. None. Simply, we need to learn from the past, not just in relation to Nepal, but more generally in relation to the different missions that B-FAST has carried out. It is a matter of organising a relief mechanism that is commensurate with our experience, expertise and generosity, not only in Belgium, but also at European and international level.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-11-54-commissie-ic166x.u6	Thank you, Minister, for giving us a brief evaluation on this matter. An evaluation was precisely the approach of our group, both in the first intervention and in the second intervention in plenary. We feel supported by the criticism of the individual members of the team. Last weekend, too, they said they wanted to learn lessons from the mistakes of the mission and expect the same from the government. Thank you. You left well. You wish to conclude this by the end of the year. A good feature of mine, Minister, is that I am patient. That's not so bad. I will therefore wait until the end of the year. However, I also have a bad quality, especially stubbornness. So you've been warned. We are pleased that you not only want to look at this mission, but want to do a broader evaluation. Various evaluation sessions are planned and you are thinking of modernising the structures. There would also be an analysis of the Advisory Committee. We're really looking forward to that. We hope that the evaluation sessions will be accompanied by a debriefing of the individual team members. In the past, this has proved to be the ideal instrument for revealing errors. The only goal is not to be faster anywhere in the world, but to be able to provide better assistance. I believe we can learn from every mission, whether it's the first or the last. In the end, that is the intention for the future. We are now waiting with great impatience for the result and, of course, for the detailed cost picture, as requested. We will be patient until the end of the year.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-11-54-commissie-ic166x.u7	Thank you, Minister, for your detailed explanation, in which many of my questions have been answered. It goes in the right direction with the evaluation. The coalition agreement already stated that everything could be improved and it was stipulated that efficiency should be increased by seeking better synergies, i.e. better partnerships, without specifying them. Well, I have a number of suggestions on this matter. It is clear that there are now problems with the procedure. There is a coordination board and a planning committee, but the advisory committee is the least mentioned. The Advisory Committee shall consist of NGOs and experts. Of course, you are asking for diplomatic advice in case of an emergency and you are given the necessary input to take action. However, the Advisory Committee also consists of NGOs working on the ground in those countries. As far as knowledge of the local area is concerned, Defense may have less experience. Exactly the NGOs, such as the Red Cross and Doctors Without Borders, are internationally branched and have teams on the ground. They are therefore very suitable for giving advice. You can perhaps say that this takes too much time, but you can also buy time by involving these people closely and thus providing better informed advice. It was all about whether or not to set up a field hospital. Such organisations have mobile teams that take care of health, including in emergency situations. It would have been useful to deploy those mobile teams. For example, the Red Cross Flanders has been supporting the Red Cross Nepal for years. It would have been useful to use those mobile teams in the field of health. An advisory committee could then have indicated which organisations could be deployed immediately. So that should not always be done by the government. More synergy must indeed be sought. That's what the coalition agreement says. This can be done through a mandatory procedure to seek advice from the important and large NGOs. They are very well organized, they are very professional and they have been working on the ground for decades. It would have been useful to ask them for their advice. Our group also keeps repeating that. Cooperation has also been discussed a number of times, of course at European level. A resolution along these lines was adopted during the previous legislature. As you said earlier, today we have a European Emergency Centre, the Response Centre. That centre coordinates, but there is no pooling of material and financial resources. It's an important center, but it doesn't have the power to align everything. There are 53 teams on site. It is impossible for a country such as Nepal, which is currently completely brutalized by an earthquake, to do that coordination properly. It would have been more useful if Europe had decided that the thirteen teams on the ground would be a single point of contact and that coordination would take place from there. We call for an EU-FAST instead of a B-FAST. I hope this gets there soon. This can also help to improve reconstruction. Today, injured people develop infections and are homeless. An EU-FAST that could respond to this would have been more useful. Another element to which it can contribute is that any citizen of the European Union can address any diplomatic service. At that time, several embassies could also have been affected by the earthquake. This could be an added value of an EU-FAST. I see you nodding in agreement. However, it is still not there. We hope that the lessons we learn from this disaster and its evaluation can lead to a faster implementation of EU-FAST in other countries and that this will make it possible to intervene more effectively and sustainably on the ground. That is what the coalition agreement says, but I think we need to proceed with it more quickly. You are talking about the end of the year, but there may be other disasters in the meantime. I therefore hope that stakeholders will meet as soon as possible and that we can achieve an EU-FAST.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-11-54-commissie-ic166x.u8	Thank you, Minister, for your statement. It is good that we are having a first exchange of views here today. It is difficult to say that the operation of B-FAST in Nepal has been a success. The ambitions were higher than what was achieved in the end. I must say that I am very concerned. When I read the press comments on B-FAST, both from politicians and non-politicians, I think they seriously undermine the support for B-FAST. I can imagine that they do no good to the trust of the volunteers of B-FAST itself and to the people who work for that organisation every day. I feel like a lot of games are being played. I will explain this later. The operation wasn't a great success. You, too, must conclude that. The question is where and with whom the responsibility lies. It is quite easy to pass the responsibility on to the government. I would remind you that I am not participating in this. You have given us an overview and we have informed us about the situation. You have given an overview of the response time at the different moments of decision-making. You have also given an overview of factors beyond the responsibility of the Belgian Government, in particular the situation in New Delhi, Kathmandu and the rest of Nepal itself. Also the Nepalese government was not always willing to let all the help and all the support just come in and just accept. We must take account of the chaos there, which we have all identified. Secondly, there has been quite a lot to do about the lack of a field hospital, which was related to the plane that was sent out, I believe. As a reminder to my fellow Members who were not present during the previous government period: under the impetus of the N-VA Group, in particular Karolien Grosemans, now chairman of the Defence Committee, it was proposed to Defence to save on the large Airbus, which it felt were underutilised, and to choose to buy smaller Airbuses. However, this means that the large devices are less available. When it comes to deciding which material is to be given to B-FAST, I can imagine that, for example, the aid mission to Nepal will send very few medical equipment or even assistance if it turns out that only a small device is available. It's either one or the other. We must be aware of the consequences of saving exercises. I can imagine that sending a field hospital would have been at the expense of other equipment or even the crew. Minister, you said that Nepal did not ask for a field hospital. Did the Nepalese government ask that question to other countries? Have other countries, European countries, if any, sent a field hospital to Nepal? Was that at the request of the Nepalese government or not? Thirdly, was the Airbus really the only aircraft available? Where were our larger DOD planes at the time? Do you know that? Fourthly, I don't think we should be naive either. We should also refer to the budget of B-FAST. If we want a performer B-FAST team, of course we need a certain budget. This means that savings at B-FAST cannot be just accepted. Allow me to take a closer look at the figures. In 2010, B-FAST accounted for EUR 1.2 million, while in 2015 it fell to EUR 762 000 for operating costs and EUR 142 000 for purchasing durable movable property for B-FAST, as I read in the budget. Two things one. Those figures indicate significant savings over five years. We must also take this into account when evaluating B-FAST. What parties have decided since 2010 that savings could be made at B-FAST? Fifthly, what lessons can we draw from the mission to Nepal? Is it an option to always provide a solid package of medical care from now on? Maybe we'll never get anywhere in the first line. Then we're left with the question about the field hospital. Have other countries decided to send a field hospital, whether or not to comply with a request from the Nepalese government? There is also a need for greater European integration and coordination. That all sounds good, and I hope you are committed to that. However, if other European countries are not inclined to make more progress towards European integration, then I think we should not just abandon our instrument B-FAST. Internationally, we are still appreciated for B-FAST; we have expertise in this area. Then let's not lose it. With Europe if it can, but without Europe if it has to. A number of comments in the press have shown that the B-FAST operation in Haiti was not a success either in 2010. We have informed ourselves of this. The facts are different. B-FAST was able to be present relatively quickly and effectively saved lives there. For another lesson that we may be able to draw, we need to answer a question that I do not think you have spoken about: is it a good idea to put B-FAST in the Defence Department? That piste has been launched. A clear command can have advantages. Another lesson that we can learn, certainly based on press reports, is that we need to work on the internal cohesion of B-FAST. Apparently, there is little support for B-FAST among the various actors, such as Defence, Public Health, the volunteers. There are open letters. Let's stop playing political games. Luc Beaucourt, for example, I refer to the name "Justine" as being very critical. As a reminder, he was the man who in 2010 was dissatisfied with the too small role he could play in that operation of B-FAST at the time of Haiti. So there are personal agendas. In addition, I hear that a number of doctors associated with the N-VA also think they should make statements, while B-FAST, according to the coverage, would also be a socialist bastion. I wonder whether it would be useful to link B-FAST to and discredit it by political labels. I would like to call on everyone to be careful with that. I believe that this will undermine something which should not be a political vehicle but rather a technical assistance vehicle. B-FAST also has credit. It is not that this is yet another debacle, B-FAST has built up credit, especially at the time of Haiti. Let's not forget that too soon.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-11-54-commissie-ic166x.u9	Are there any fellow Members who have not tabled a question but who wish to intervene? I'd like to do that myself. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall remain here. I will not speak as a member of an opposition party, I will try to speak as chairman. I have listened carefully to many of my fellow Members. You may be surprised, but I have the text of the coalition agreement at hand here. For those of us who have not learned this text, I would like to read out what it says: 'In the context of urgent humanitarian aid and, in particular, as regards the international range of B-FAST, the government will ensure the efficiency of this interdepartmental platform and the search for more synergies and partnerships that can improve its functioning.' On the other hand, we have had the operation in Nepal, of which everyone, I try to say as diplomatically as possible, thinks that it was not perfect, in different degrees. We have heard here that questions can be asked about this. During the meeting of the Council of Ministers on Friday, Minister Reynders was instructed to carry out an evaluation. The Minister promised it by the end of the year. I think it is normal for the government to do its job, but I have heard several fellow Members, Mrs Grovonius, Mr Dallemagne and others argue that the issue is important enough to allow the Committee on External Relations to consider it. I have the next question. Can the government and the Chamber, with a majority and opposition, find each other by making the evaluation and agreeing to check by the end of the year to what extent the lines are aligned? I agree with Mr De Vriendt. B-FAST is a useful tool and has done a lot of good interventions in the past. At B-FAST, many volunteers work to admire their commitment and their efforts. This instrument can and must still be useful in the future if there are other emergencies. For this reason, it would be a good thing for a modified future structure of B-FAST to have consensus across the boundaries of majority and opposition, so that we can all promote and defend this instrument. Is there any willingness on the part of the committee's fellow Members to hold hearings and exchange views in our customary manner? Can we organise hearings on this, for which we invite the people we think we should invite? That is my question and my wish as chairman of this committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-11-54-commissie-ic166x.u10	An evaluation must indeed be carried out. As the Minister says, this will be done on the basis of facts, facts and figures. This applies not only to the mission in Nepal, but also to the successful missions of the past. In Haiti, very good work has been done. I don't think the committee has all that information. Nor is it our job to do the work of the administration or the cabinet. I think the Minister has made a good proposal. The evaluation of the Minister and the administration can then be looked at in our committee. The evaluation that our committee would make today is rather an evaluation based on what we have seen in the media, based on what we have heard and seen. The hearings will not be able to be organized directly because we also have other hearings. I am thinking of the hearings on Central Africa, about sustainability. I do not know whether it will fit in with the planning to carry out an evaluation itself by September or October. I therefore propose that we wait for the report by the Minister and his administration, to which we can add a number of points. That seems to me to be the best pragmatic approach.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-11-54-commissie-ic166x.u11	Mr President, I agree with Mr Vandenput. We have been calling for an evaluation in recent weeks, but it has to be made where the data and the information are available. That's not just in the Foreign Office. We have heard from the Minister that there has been cooperation between different Cabinets. We do not have that information at our disposal. We can evaluate what we are thinking, what we have heard say and what we have read in the media, but I do not think it is up to us to make that evaluation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-11-54-commissie-ic166x.u12	Mr President, I agree with the idea of a real debate on emergency humanitarian aid in general. That's why I asked a series of questions about the evaluation that will be conducted. Is this assessment limited to B-FAST or is it a more comprehensive assessment of the procedures and processes that are being implemented in cases of emergency humanitarian assistance? I support the idea that we can work on this issue. I could agree with the idea of waiting for the evaluation, that it is a basis for work, to start discussing. In order to do so, I would like to know precisely the framework of this evaluation and the time frame for the delivery of its findings and, above all, who will be conducting this evaluation. Indeed, I would like to make sure that it will actually be carried out by a body as independent as possible to enable us to have an objective view of the problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-11-54-commissie-ic166x.u13	I agree with the majority of my fellow Members. I think we should let the Minister get to work first. He will question all stakeholders involved and also request the data. Afterwards, a report will probably be drawn up, which will be discussed in committee. It is only at that time that we need an evaluation, which will enable us to decide on any recommendations. Once again, however, I would like to await the Minister's report. After all, he has the coordination of B-FAST in his hands. Together with his fellow Members, he will evaluate the mission to look at how we should proceed with this on the basis of the report.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-11-54-commissie-ic166x.u14	Mr President, I regret the attitude of colleagues from the majority who wish to wait until December to carry out an evaluation, in accordance with the announcement made by the minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-11-54-commissie-ic166x.u15	We're almost there!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-11-54-commissie-ic166x.u16	Fortunately, there is still the end of spring, summer and autumn! I hope you put this time to good use. Still, I regret that attitude. Indeed, this is not the first time such an operation has taken place and questions have been asked. Each time, there is agreement that an internal evaluation will be conducted. But we never know the results. In any case, the latter are never communicated. It is never known what mechanisms have been improved, what decisions have been taken. For my part, I believe that this kind of information should be communicated to Parliament. That is common sense. With reasonings such as those you have just held, we should not be interested in TTIP, development cooperation, etc., since, by definition, an administration, officials, diplomats are informed and experts in this field, which is not our case. If we follow your reasoning, these issues should not be addressed and should not raise any questions in our home. That's why I think your reasoning is a little "short". Indeed, the subject is important. Belgium may propose a range of initiatives at European level with a view to enhancing the effectiveness of the scheme. I am among those who believe that it is imperative to take advantage of the experience of Belgium. To do this, however, Parliament must be able to play its part. I do not see why Parliament would be put on the sidelines by simply playing the role of observer and waiting for a possible assessment of the minister. I repeat that during this kind of intervention, an evaluation is made each time. In any case, that is what the minister said. But no information on this matter is given to us. I ask that, this time, the results of the evaluation be communicated to us, that we be informed of the decisions taken and of the developments in the B-FAST system. That seems basic to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-11-54-commissie-ic166x.u17	Mr President, I find that our colleague, Mr Dallemagne, was somewhat excessive in his last speech. Indeed, that is not at all what my colleagues in the majority have said. Mr Dallemagne, you blame us, saying that "then we would not be interested in TTIP or development cooperation". It is the opposite that has been said by my colleagues. It is precisely because these matters are extremely important that we pay full attention to them that we can and are organizing our work. It is proposed to hear the Minister's report. On this basis, parliamentary work will be carried out. There is a certain form of wisdom to proceed in this way. Given your strong commitment to these issues, I understand your reaction, Mr. Dallemagne. However, as we have always talked about efficiency, I think that our work will be more effective if we proceed in this way, rather than suddenly reopening a kind of Pandora's box to redo a whole series of hearings of people who have different visions than what B-FAST should be and to compensate by saying that, as we have heard one, we have to hear the other, etc. I think there is a logic of efficiency to proceed in the manner proposed by the minister. I also agree with what our colleague has said. You shouldn't throw the baby away with the bath water either. The idea is to maintain and strengthen the effectiveness of B-FAST, to which we pay close attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-11-54-commissie-ic166x.u18	Mr President, I have a very specific question. Would it not be possible for members of the committee to have the evaluations and reports made at administrative level?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-11-54-commissie-ic166x.u19	Mission reports exist, they are prepared systematically. I hope that we will have access to it; that is my wish. I'd like to respond to Richard Miller's comments. I am not a fetishist in the organization of work. What seems important to me is not to trivialize what has just happened and not to do as usual, that is to say to write a report of which no one will ever hear, a purely internal evaluation, without any outside look. I think that would be inappropriate for events. I am open to the idea of another means of evaluation: to ask the minister to tell us precisely how he will conduct an independent evaluation, as proposed by the B-FAST teams. Why not appoint the Special Reviewer of Cooperation? This mechanism exists and this evaluator can certainly be interested in humanitarian aid. I see the Minister of Foreign Affairs who doesn't want it. But while it is proposing a serious mechanism for independent evaluation of B-FAST and ensuring that we are able to learn about the results of this evaluation in Parliament to play our role as parliamentarians! That's the least I can do! I am not attached to conducting hearings that could be lengthy and unnecessary. What matters to me is the result of a serious, independent, transparent evaluation of which we are aware in order to be able to debate it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-11-54-commissie-ic166x.u20	Minister, I know it is dangerous to interpret body language. Will you carry out that evaluation yourself, under your responsibility, or will you ask an external body to do so? I have not yet received an answer, but personally I do not have the best experience with self-evaluations. You had the responsibility, because you were in charge of the coordination council. I do not think it is wise to ask you to judge yourself and all the work that has been done under your responsibility. I know many examples. The training of the brigades organized by the Belgian army in Congo was evaluated each time by the Belgian army itself. Guess what the outcome was? Perfect. There was no sign of the training we gave, but when we looked at the behaviour of those troops on the ground, a number of questions arose. Mr Minister, find an external body that will carry out the evaluation and provide the government with a report, on which the government will decide its position, and come to us with it. I can live with such a way of working. However, if you do that yourself, with your Foreign Affairs department, you who had the responsibility for the whole operation in Nepal, since you were in charge of the Coordination Council, do not ask us to give a great deal of faith in that evaluation. Then there will continue to be opposition criticism of B-FAST and of the solutions that you have proposed. I therefore call for an independent evaluation. We can live with the government drawing conclusions and coming to the Chamber with them. However, we cannot live with the fact that you evaluate yourself and then draw conclusions, and then count on the cadaver discipline of your majority parties in the Chamber and in committee, to swallow all that. I'm sorry, but as a member of the opposition, I won't take it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-11-54-commissie-ic166x.u21	Madam President, I have heard Mr Van der Maelen as chairman of everyone and then as member of the opposition. He states that he will read a text. It is exactly the same text I read during my introduction. I have to try to understand that. However, I will give a serious answer to the most important questions raised by the various speakers. Firstly, as regards the evaluation, I note that there are reports on the various operations of B-FAST. We can give all Members a copy of such a paper on Haiti and the Philippines. However, what is the first step in an evaluation? It's an internal evaluation. You can repeat that five or ten times or more. However, the evaluation did not come from me or was not made by myself. She's from the members of the B-FAST team. There are volunteers and there are representatives from the various departments. Together they try to make an evaluation of their own operation. After that, this must also be done by an external body. By whom should this be done? Should this be done by a McKinsey & Company consultant or something? No, we will forward the evaluation to the European Commission and to OCHA. We wait and see what the reactions will be. It always happens that way. Should there be an external evaluation by an NGO? We make an evaluation within B-FAST and within the departments. Then we try to establish contacts at international level. By the way, we have already started evaluating the Nepali mission. I have said this twice or three times in plenary and now in committee. Again, the evaluation will of course not be done by myself. We have already had two meetings with the people of the B-FAST team themselves, because they were on the ground in Nepal. It is useful to know all the facts first and foremost.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-11-54-commissie-ic166x.u22	I gave you a first statement of the elements that we were able to identify. But that's what we're going to do. Together with the teams that have set up the entire operation, we will see the elements that we can gather and the analyses that the team members and the various departments concerned will be able to carry out. I repeat, we will also transmit these analyses to the European Commission and OCHA. With these external views of specialised people, both at European and international level, we will see how we can draw conclusions. Now I come to the government's position on B-FAST in general. I read it, and you read it, Mr President. It is useful to read the same text twice. In the coalition agreement, we decided to increase efficiency, following the evaluation of B-FAST actions in several other disasters in the past. In the last Council of Ministers we decided to increase efficiency by the end of this year. I therefore propose that we return to this committee with a proposal, not a proposal or a report from myself, but a proposal from the government. That is the normal course of action. I am trying to make an evaluation, and I will present it to the government, after which proposals can be made to improve the efficiency of B-FAST. I can say the following about the procedure. Some questions were asked about the procedure and coordination. Well, when B-FAST starts, it happens to all possible actors. Although the coordination is carried out by the State Department, the Ministry of Defence is responsible for logistics and, for example, telecommunications, not only for transport. Health is also involved in the medical aspects and support from civil protection and the fire department comes. It is therefore normal to maintain contacts with the Home Office. With these different partners we are trying to work together, and that will always have to be coordinated, albeit by the Defence Department or by another department. The only reason for setting up a coordination committee is to get everyone around the table and make a joint decision, so that the departments would not take separate decisions. That's a first case. A second matter is that B-FAST's actions take place at the request of a country, for example in the event of a disaster. Not all countries ask for help in the event of a disaster. So we're not sending a team to a country that didn't ask for help. For Nepal, I'm trying to understand the situation. I've seen a lot of conflicts between people. I do understand the reactions of the volunteers who want to go to Nepal with a field hospital or other equipment. However, we have received the following question from Nepal through the European Union. "The government of Nepal requests the assistance from the European Commission’s Humanitarian Aid and Civil Protection Department (ECHO)”, dus op Europees vlak, “for the immediate relief and rescue works in Nepal.” I would also like to reply to Mr De Vriendt's first question. It is true that after that many questions were raised for humanitarian aid, but that was the first question. This is also why 76 teams from 31 countries were present under the co-ordination of OCHA from the UN. There were 1 872 staff and 118 dogs present. We immediately replied to Nepal's first question. It was possible to send a lot of other things, but we sent what Nepal had asked for first. I said in my introduction that a field hospital is something completely different. It also required a different transport capacity, either with two aircraft, or with a larger aircraft. Depending on the demand, the DOD might have given us a different capacity. We need to work with this coordination to meet demand. I have read and heard, still very recently, criticism from experts who accused us of reacting too slowly. I am trying to understand how we could have acted more quickly when between the request, which came to us at 1:00 p.m., and the moment when more than forty volunteers gathered, twenty-four hours ago – including, I would point out, one whole night. You feel that we need to bring these volunteers together all over the country faster than in 24 hours, to get them to be operational with equipment – that is. I would remind you that we are calling on volunteers. I insist, because that's the whole concept of B-FAST. When I hear several speeches, I think the question is whether we are maintaining it or not. If we don't want to leave right away and we think it's pointless – I heard that for thirty years we knew it was useless to leave immediately – then we need to delete B-FAST to work on cooperation, reconstruction or prevention. Indeed, from the beginning, what guides B-FAST is to be very quickly operational on the ground. Fortunately, I'm not the expert who decides, but I've been doing this for some time. In the event of an earthquake, resulting in massive destruction in the city, I have the feeling that being with teams specializing in search and rescue of people, it is not absurd that this is the first request a government is making to us. Otherwise, we need to talk about something else. We can do that, but the evaluations will focus on that. In this case, in the B-FAST concept, we are not going to evaluate the whole range of development cooperation and the preventive measures that we can take. No, it is a question of whether we have the ability to act quickly, as has been imagined for a good ten years, if I am not mistaken. This is the vocation of B-FAST. Moreover, we have been congratulated on several occasions, including at European level. Thirdly, international coordination. We can debate this extensively, but it is difficult to achieve anything without cooperation with others. It can always be said that it will be better to coordinate at European level and at the UN level. Efforts have been under way for several years, with OCHA at the UN level, but also within the European Union with ECHO. That too is a possibility. I transferred a non-paper to the European Commissioner on this issue in January 2014, but we always need an answer from all partners. There is also a small contradiction. I hear and read that it might have been better to do something other than go to Nepal with a USAR team. That was Nepal's question to the European Commission and therefore from ECHO to Belgium. So you are asking for better coordination, but even after a demand from Europe we must send something else. How can it be coordinated if there is no proper follow-up to a question addressed to us by the European Commission? We will try to coordinate more and better. There were 76 USAR teams, but at the same time there were 147 NGOs on site. It is therefore not easy for OCHA, but they are trying to coordinate things. There is progress in this regard. We now have a number of possible contacts at European and international level. As with a previous operation, we asked whether it was useful to start after a period of 27 hours, or to wait two or three hours to make sure that people from Luxembourg, Germany or the European Commission could be on board. That is also a possible choice of a government in the event of a disaster. We're trying to do that. Finally, with regard to evolution and our evaluation, I am prepared to put the question to the other competent colleagues. What can we do in the context of our development cooperation, what will we do for the reconstruction of Nepal and for various other actions? We will do so through NGOs, perhaps with direct help. Once again, Nepal is not a concentration country for Belgium. That's nothing new. Perhaps there will be a specific demand at international level for funds for Nepal after this disaster, or perhaps a demand for other actions. However, this is not part of the task of B-FAST. I am open to a much broader debate, but we first asked to see what we are doing with B-FAST, which is a very specific actor. The terminology used is clear, that is when there is a natural disaster. And it's a little forced because when we're told that when there's a conflict, it doesn't fit into the conditions, we sometimes think that we're going to do something fast. The question is whether we maintain this idea that in the event of a natural disaster somewhere in the world, we try to react as soon as possible, as soon as a request is received. If the answer is "don't do it" because there will be too many people there, there will be too many planes or "you won't get there, it's no use", we don't have to discuss the situation very long, we move on to other types of operations that have nothing to do with what B-FAST wants to do. Of course, the evaluations will still take time, and we are constantly trying to improve the system. But if, tomorrow or in a week's time, a tragedy is announced somewhere in the world, I and my colleagues will have a responsibility to know whether, within 24 hours, we are making a decision on the basis of the country's demand, looking at the means we have to respond to it and trying to coordinate it as best we can. I can already tell you that in a week or a month there will be no EU-FAST or a global organisation for immediate intervention. There will again be a number of countries that will have to respond individually and coordinate as best they can. Good if we make further progress, we ask for it and we will come back to it in the months and years to come, but that is the process. We will move forward in this evaluation, but we will try to respond to requests by coordinating as best we can. Mr De Vriendt asked about the level of ambition and the result. There was a very high level of ambition and I said in plenary that it was not a real failure. We were able to repatriate 127 people on a plane and our people on the ground tried to provide help. It is true, however, that the first task of our people on the ground was impossible, and this for various reasons. I don't know what's gonna happen next time, maybe it won't take 24 hours to make a decision. What certainty do we have to take concrete action on the ground in a chaotic situation after a disaster? I don't know. I am not going to go back to the individual reactions and the way people have argued in the press about this issue over the last few days and weeks, but I would like to take this opportunity to say that I am afraid that we are killing support for operations like this. I repeat, these operations are operations for which volunteers agree to leave without pay, take leave and organize their actions immediately. Many other formulas can be imagined, but they will no longer have the same characteristics. If I were to send teams of professionals from different departments, it would not correspond to the framework of purity. That's why, at the time, we worked with a volunteer base. First of all, therefore, the government will be prepared to react in the event that, unfortunately (which is never excluded), a disaster has to occur somewhere. We'll try to see how best to respond. Secondly, there will be an evaluation, not only on Nepal, but also on whether a reform or a new method of working for B-FAST on the basis of the government agreement is necessary. You can have the non-paper on the Philippines and Haiti sent to the European Commission. We will also look at progress at international level. I have spoken in several Councils for External Relations about an EU-FAST, so far without success. I don't know if that's necessary. I do not know the reasons why other countries want it or not. They may want to take a national team to the country in question immediately. Here were 76 teams from 31 countries. Mr President, that is my answer. I therefore call for caution with regard to these activities. It's part of our possible actions. It is perfectly possible to cooperate with Development Cooperation, with NGOs, with the funding of NGOs, with medium-term actions, with hospitals and so on. However, the question is whether this is useful if a rapid response to a natural disaster is to be provided. We shall have this question in the future. What should we do: consult many partners? We try to do that with all the professionals in the matter. That, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, is what I can tell you about the situation at this time!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-11-54-commissie-ic166x.u23	Mr Minister, first of all, I would like to thank you for this debate. You know, whether I'm in opposition or not, I've always had the same kind of questions about our interventions through B-FAST. I do not wish there to be any debate or games of a political nature, which is why I have not entered into all these considerations on defence and health. All of this must be part of the evaluation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-11-54-commissie-ic166x.u24	B-FAST will continue to develop if it proves its effectiveness. What could endanger B-FAST is the insidious realization that its services do not meet demand and that it is important to have other types of tools. That is why this assessment is extremely important. It would be useful if Parliament were involved or there was an independent evaluation. You suggested that we have access to these reports. Personally, I would like to be able to consult them. It would be an excellent idea for Parliament to have access to this information.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-11-54-commissie-ic166x.u25	Minister, I would like to answer your last question: what should we do? That is quite simple: we must ensure that we have a well-organised and well-functioning team with B-FAST that can be made available to all those in countries affected by disasters, depending on the questions we have and the choices we have made in advance about which we wish to specialise. We need to be able to provide that help. That is my answer to the question you are asking. That is why I believe that we need an objective, external evaluation. I've done some searching, Minister. On the Commission's website, I found the letter from the Nepal Embassy. I have heard you say several times in different variants that we have sent a search and rescue team at Nepal's request. I have that letter right here. I don't know if it's the letter you're referring to. It's a letter dated April 25th. I read in that, I admit, that we could send a search and rescue team. However, I can also read that we could have offered something else. They're talking about "immediate rescue and relief of the earthquake victims." Then they say: "The government has identified the most important requirements: whitets, food items, drinking water, tents, medicines, first aid tools." Speaking of the same letter, Minister, I believe that on Saturday there was a choice between what one would do.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-11-54-commissie-ic166x.u26	(...).
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-11-54-commissie-ic166x.u27	No, no, no, you always give the impression...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-11-54-commissie-ic166x.u28	You'll read my lines.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-11-54-commissie-ic166x.u29	Minister, you gave the impression several times, when the debate was about whether or not to send a field hospital or just a search and rescue team, that you only did what the Nepalese asked. I admit that one can do that. However, I read in this letter that the Nepalese's question was much broader than a search and rescue team. That is why we have to ask why the coordination committee has ultimately chosen only search and rescue. It could have chosen something else, with which the team could probably have made a much more useful and sustainable contribution to the victims in Nepal. That is why, Minister, we need an objective, external evaluation. You can't expect anyone, especially you, to hit mea culpa. It is a normal practice that, if something goes wrong somewhere and that is evaluated, it is not only the person responsible for the operation that allows that evaluation to be carried out, but that an external partner should be asked to do so. Since you do not want to do so, I can only regret that we are not getting an objective and full investigation here, a study that makes it clear to us where it went wrong and what measures we must take in the future to prevent this from happening again.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-11-54-commissie-ic166x.u30	Madam President, unlike Mr Van der Maelen, I have received a clear answer from the Minister as to why they finally opted for search and rescue. For practical reasons, consideration has been made. The provision of two additional aircraft was not requested, not even from Nepal. I just got those answers from the Minister. I do have one more question that I didn't get an answer to. Why is the Advisory Committee not involved? You are talking about 147 NGOs, but for Belgium it is only two emergency aid NGOs, AZG and the Red Cross. The question is why these emergency aid NGOs were not consulted in the procedure for sending out B-FAST. This consultation could certainly improve the situation on the ground.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-11-54-commissie-ic166x.u31	Madam President, I know that a lot of efforts have been made to get to the media. I don't know who was or wasn't present anymore. I have heard the chairman of the committee who is trying to put all kinds of words in my mouth. I shall reread my statements, Mr President of this committee. On the second page of my reading, you didn't have to wait long. It says: "The Nepalese question concerns both aid workers and relief products. The Planning Committee looks at the various options for sending out aid workers. The B-FAST Planning Committee identifies two modules that can be deployed immediately, the Urban Search and Rescue Team and the Advanced Medical Post. That is clear and concrete, isn't it? What's the impression of that? That it was a choice. It's obvious, isn't it? You always say I said this or that. There are candidates from sp.a in Flemish Brabant who are volunteers. I've had a lot of comments in the press since day one. I am tired of seeing people criticizing B-FAST for political reasons. I've got the list of the people. I have seen their candidacy for the Flemish elections and their political activities at municipal level. How come after a few hours they could say they had another idea? I repeat that it was a real choice, due to the specificity of the disaster and the severely affected urban area of Kathmandu, to develop the USAR team. The USAR team fits with all the material in an A321 aircraft. That's what I said. That was possible for the DOD. The deployment of an Advanced Medical Post was more difficult because one had to use a second plane, the A330. There are other members of your party, also candidates for the elections, also members of municipal councils, who are very proud. Mr Van der Maelen, I am tired of your games. You start as chairman of the committee and then, as a member of the committee, criticise it. Since the beginning, I have said that a choice has been made and made by the Committee in response to Nepal's question. That was a clear answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-11-54-commissie-ic166x.u32	If there was a choice, Minister, why was USAR chosen instead of the other form of aid?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-11-54-commissie-ic166x.u33	Do you want me to reread it again?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-11-54-commissie-ic166x.u34	No, but...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-11-54-commissie-ic166x.u35	"A unanimous choice." "A unanimous choice." "A unanimous
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-11-54-commissie-ic166x.u36	You're saying it wasn't possible to do the two because you needed a second plane. You might as well have chosen the other side instead of a U.S.A.R. team. That's the question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-11-54-commissie-ic166x.u37	I replied: because of the specificity of the disaster and the severely affected urban area of Kathmandu, the planning committee took that decision and that committee is made up of specialists from all departments, Mr Van der Maelen.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-11-54-commissie-ic166x.u38	Minister, Mr Dallemagne asked in plenary how many individuals were saved through the USAR teams. I thought it was 16.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-11-54-commissie-ic166x.u39	Sixteen. That's the calculation of OCHA.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-11-54-commissie-ic166x.u40	The question is not just about the Belgian specialists who are on that planning committee. It's a question, which also applies to all other teams. Due to the structure of the buildings over there, we know that they were all brick buildings. The experts should have known that the chances of survivors under the rubble were very small, if such buildings collapse. Both the Belgian and the other experts have apparently driven as if we were dealing with buildings with concrete structures. If only sixteen people have been rescued from the rubble, then I ask whether we can call those people expert, if they march out there with so many USAR teams.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-11-54-commissie-ic166x.u41	Minister, I think you have an expert on the planning committee. Mr van der Maelen, I would like to confirm that the Minister explained the procedure in detail. There were two possibilities and he explained why option A was chosen and not option B. That was very clear, wasn't it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-11-54-commissie-ic166x.u42	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-11-54-commissie-ic166x.u43	That's not the Minister's choice. That is the choice of the planning committee. You should talk to the people of the planning committee yourself.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-11-54-commissie-ic166x.u44	We can organise a hearing and invite the planning committee, but that cannot be done by the majority.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-11-54-commissie-ic166x.u45	It is embarrassing that we, the political parties, are here on the heels of the suffering of the people of Nepal on a number of matters. That's really my opinion.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-11-54-commissie-ic166x.u46	Stop being populist.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-11-54-commissie-ic166x.u47	A lot of things are deliberately or unconsciously bad or miscommunicated. This, as the Minister points out, undermines the support for B-FAST. So let us keep our feet on the ground and, on the basis of the facts, wait for the evaluation and then look at it. I am not only talking about Nepal, but also about all the good missions that have been carried out. After all, B-FAST has done a lot of good business.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-11-54-commissie-ic166x.u48	Madam President, I would like to speak because I am not satisfied with the Minister's answer. Like my fellow Members, Messrs. Van der Maelen and Dallemagne, I ask for an independent assessment of the whole process. I do not want to focus attention on B-FAST but I want to have a global assessment; I am very dissatisfied to hear that we will not have it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-11-54-commissie-ic166x.u49	Madam President, we must remain calm and try not to discredit colleagues who make arguments that I believe are entirely relevant. I have in front of me the mail I didn't know, which was sent to the Member States and ECHO by the Embassy of Nepal. I find it particularly interesting and important. We must be able to debate it calmly. Dans ce courrier daté du 25 avril, le gouvernement népalais dit explicitement: "For the immediate relief of the victims – donc pas pour une aide ultérieure –, the government has identified that the most important requirements at this early aftermath of the disaster are blankets, food items, drinking water, tents, medicines and first aid tools". That's what I was talking about earlier. That's exactly it! Minister, we can very well deploy, in the first few hours, sensible, relevant and effective emergency aid. The Embassy of Nepal has made a very specific request. It is pertinent to ask why another decision was taken by the Coordinating Committee. It would be interesting for Parliament to know the reasons for this. This is a legitimate discussion to have. It's not about throwing the stone. It is not a question of blaming. It is about learning from the past and making sure to respond better in the future. It was said that Nepal's request had been met; that was not correct. This request was very specific and was not answered.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-11-54-commissie-ic166x.u50	The letter has been published on the Commission's website for a long time. Read it in its entirety! What do you think "recovery" means?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-11-54-commissie-ic166x.u51	I've read the entire letter, but I want to read it again. I read: "To provide necessary humanitarian aid for the immediate rescue and relief". In the following paragraph, the term "recovery" is specified. I can read too. This mail is extremely and surprisingly accurate. We would have expected a government in shock to let it know that it was taking everything we wanted to give it. But no, he said he wanted to receive blankets, tents, food, water.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-11-54-commissie-ic166x.u52	You don't want to read the text!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-11-54-commissie-ic166x.u53	Everyone will be able to learn about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-11-54-commissie-ic166x.u54	This will be the next incident.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-11-54-commissie-ic166x.u55	Are there any Members who wish to intervene?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-11-54-commissie-ic166x.u56	Madam Chair, I understand that, given the late hour, the minister must leave us. However, another important item was on the agenda, namely the situation in Burundi, which is very complicated. I ask that this issue be placed on the agenda of one of the next committees as soon as possible. This is a very serious issue, which deserves us to take the time to discuss it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-11-54-commissie-ic166x.u57	Madam President, the next meeting will take place on 20 May. We will then discuss a number of treaties and perhaps then have a debate on Burundi. It is your choice to place it on the agenda. Today we would end our work at 18:00, but it is now 19:39. We had a very important and urgent debate today on Seychelles, which went well.
