ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic237x.u1	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, I asked you in plenary on June 18 about the future of federal scientific institutions (FSIs), but as I said in my reply, I was disappointed with your answers. So I'm asking you again about this. A sum of 11.2 million has just been allocated to scientific institutions to "make the most urgent, unavoidable, unique investments, regardless of the expected empowerment" in your own words. But the budgets for the next few years are still well down, as shown in the table you provided to my colleague Catherine Fonck on the occasion of her question of July 7, 2015. Yet you have presented us with your reform as "an enrichment for federal scientific institutions. Indeed, the financial resources released by the abolition of the Science Policy PPS will be used in particular for their benefit", you said during the discussion of the policy note. On the other hand, you justified yourself by saying that the government will ensure balanced sources of funding and that alternative funding channels will be sought, such as sponsorship, media sponsorship, crowdfunding and sponsorship. You're talking about an empowerment plan presented in the fall and an ongoing in-depth study to ensure the future functioning of the FSEs, given the essential elements of the financial, organizational and legal aspects. Madam Secretary of State, can we have the master plans you received from the different ESFs or at least a list of their priorities, on which you base your reform? By whom is the study you are talking about and when will you have its results? In view of the budget figures for the next few years, I do not see how this is an "enrichment for the ESF". How much is estimated the financial resources released by the abolition of the Science Policy PPS? Are the alternatives to offset the decrease in the budget you provide to the FSEs analyzed in your study? What are the means found to compensate for the huge budget loss you impose on them?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic237x.u2	Mr President, Mr de Lamotte, the amount of EUR 11.2 million I have granted to the ESFs in order to meet their most urgent needs has been set according to the priorities presented to me by the ESFs. It is clear that the needs of the ESF exceed these EUR 11.2 million, as this is an initial and one-time supplementary investment budget. The ESFs have set their own priorities, which should not be confused with the priorities of their respective master plans, even if they are of course part of this framework. The Masterplans of the ESF are primarily the direct result of their missions and objectives as defined under the respective laws of creation and royal decrees. The planned reforms will therefore be based on these fundamental tasks. Over time, and particularly under the influence of different governments, these missions have sometimes been diluted and/or the FSEs have taken on additional tasks. The current study will analyse and evaluate all of these tasks and missions in cooperation with the ESFs themselves. Of course, these missions will also determine the financial aspects, the openness to the public and the scientific scope. All this will be put in place. The study will be carried out by an independent company, SA Technopolis, which had already carried out an audit of the ESFs and more particularly of their scientific missions well before the establishment of the current government. The study originally planned for the Royal Institute of Natural Sciences of Belgium and the Royal Museum of Central Africa has already been completed. More work remains to be done. My firm and the Belspo administration have accelerated this study for the other FSEs, but most of all they have been working to extend this study to the public-related FSEs. This information will play an important role in the empowerment of FSEs. For the Royal Meteorological Institute, the Royal Observatory of Belgium and the Institute of Space Aeronomy of Belgium, we expect the results of Technopolis by May 2016. For the Royal Museums of Art and History, the Royal Museums of Fine Arts of Belgium and the Royal Institute of Artistic Heritage, we expect the results of Technopolis by September 2016. For the General Archives of the Kingdom and the Royal Library of Belgium, we are waiting for them by January 2017. With regard to the study on the opening to the public of the Royal Institute of Natural Sciences of Belgium and the Royal Museum of Central Africa, we are waiting for the results by February 2016. The final analysis will also include old studies of possible consolidation of BSEs and partial or no redefinition of their activities. Finally, since the Directors-General of the different ESFs also have their own vision of the empowerment process, we are working together on this. Contrary to what you say, the objective is not to reduce the budget of the FSEs. The savings imposed at the beginning of this Parliament also applied to FSEs. However, the objective is that the reform of the Science Policy PPS will also contribute to this. The EUR 11.2 million in this respect was also a means of compensating for this initial reduction. In the meantime, the financial flows of the Science Policy PPS have become much clearer. We are in the process of reorienting them and rationalizing them for the benefit of the jewels of scientific policy, i.e. the FSEs and scientific research. This means that a number of financial flows will be diverted to other initiatives and that FSEs will have a much greater participation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic237x.u3	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your answers. The deadlines are quite distant since you are talking about 2016 and 2017. In the meantime, the 2016 and 2017 budgets will still have to be prepared and it will have to work. Reductions in appropriations have taken place. I guess we'll meet again at the time of the budget. As I understand it, the study for the Royal Institute of Natural Sciences in Belgium and the Royal Museum of Central Africa has been completed, but further analyses are under way. I assume that in two or three months' time, things will have come to an end, which will allow us to have a first approach. We would be pleased to have these documents and the conclusions of this study.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic237x.u4	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, the oceanographic research vessel Belgica is 31 years old and is becoming increasingly old. Its state has necessitated a recent decision to allocate a budget of just over EUR 1 million for an exceptional maintenance, indispensable to ensure safety on board for another 3 to 4 years. But, after 2019 at the latest, the issue of security will come up again. Beyond this aspect, this boat of another time makes the conditions more and more difficult so that the scientific research for which it was designed can be carried out effectively. Thus, researchers often have to be resourceful and sometimes have to abandon their project. In terms of safety and research, a new, more modern boat is becoming increasingly necessary. According to the operational director of the natural environment, Dr. Patrick Roose, an acquisition would, after 10 years, be economically more profitable than a rental of 3 to 4 years, i.e. the life expectancy of the Belgica, which is necessary for the construction of a new ship. Such a vessel is important not only for scientific research but also for coastal management. Madam Secretary of State, my questions on this subject are as follows. Can you confirm to me that, despite the upcoming exceptional interview, it will be difficult, if not impossible, to keep the Belgica afloat beyond 2019? Are you considering a new, more modern and secure boat to take over from Belgica? If so, will it be a rental or acquisition? What are the deadlines for this replacement?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic237x.u5	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, Belgium has an oceanographic research boat, the Belgica. Unfortunately, this boat is already 31 years old and it is not in excellent condition. Rust the attack gradually, mechanical problems multiply and equipment is obsolete. This is why a budget of €1,019,000 has been allocated for an exceptional maintenance of the boat. "So that it can be operational for another three to four years," says Commander Luc Van Tricht. "It is a necessity to ensure the safety of the crew on board." However, it appears that despite this new investment, safety on board will no longer be guaranteed after 2019. Its managers, Defence, the Federal Science Policy and the Royal Institute of Natural Sciences (RSNB), are calling for the acquisition of a new oceanographic research vessel. Acquire a more modern boat with better equipped labs: the cost is around 54.5 million euros. "It is estimated that after ten years of use, the purchase would be more economical than a rental," explains Dr. Roose, operational director of the natural environment, under the leadership of which the scientific campaigns are conducted. Since three to four years are needed to build such a vessel, the ministerial decision must be taken now. Your colleague, Mr Tommelein, Secretary of State for the North Sea, has already agreed to this acquisition, but the budget depends on your portfolio. He also stated that he would like Belgica to also be used for aquaculture research, in addition to its current uses to broaden knowledge of the seas and to monitor the quality of the North Sea. Aquaculture is a sustainable and innovative technology for promoting seafood production and combating overfishing. My questions are as follows, Madam Secretary of State. Do you intend to allocate the budget for the acquisition of a new oceanographic research boat or do you intend to use a rental when the Belgica is no longer usable? How much do you estimate this acquisition? Do you intend to review the use made by the Scientific Policy of Belgica and eventually expand its missions to aquaculture?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic237x.u6	Mrs Cassart is apologised for her two attached questions Nos 5873 and 6081.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic237x.u7	Mr President, the recent decision to grant additional resources to the Royal Institute of Natural Sciences of Belgium, responsible for the budgetary management of the vessel A962, the Belgica, makes it possible to address the problems related to the ageing of the Belgica. This concerns EUR 1 018 000 which is part of a single investment of EUR 11.2 million for the ESF, which I approved earlier this year to eliminate part of the investment backlog with the institutions. These aging problems have lost six weeks of sailing time in 2013 and also lead to increasing safety issues, including leakproofness, early fire problems due to outdated cables, etc. The work will therefore focus on a number of safety systems and propulsion elements of the vessel. As a result of this maintenance work, the safety of the crew and scientists, as well as the employability of the vessel, will continue to be guaranteed. A ban on navigating will be ruled out from the beginning of 2016. As a result of this investment, the research vessel Belgica A962 will be able to safely float for the next three to four years. After 2019, it seems unlikely that the Belgica will obtain the necessary insurance and technical inspection certificates to continue sailing. Both the 2009 feasibility study and the 2014 funding study concluded that the only coherent option for replacing the Belgica research vessel was to build a new research vessel. On the basis of an offer received from a company specialising in chartering and on the assumption of an intervention 0 from the State, the chartering of the current research vessel, in accordance with the needs of the Belgian scientific community, would cost EUR 54 000 VAT included per day and EUR 10.8 million on the basis of a 200-day operation at sea, according to the navigation plan of the current Belgica. For a 10-year holding, the total cost would be EUR 108 million without indexation. In comparison, the cost of constructing a new vessel and operating it 300 days per year at sea for a period of 10 years would amount to a total of EUR 97.45 million, i.e. EUR 54.5 million for the purchase of the vessel, plus EUR 10 times 4 million for operating costs, without indexation and VAT included. Thus, over a period of 30 years, the maximum life of a research vessel, the total cost, if one opts for the construction of a new vessel capable of providing 300 days at sea per year, would be almost half the cost of chartering the current vessel at sea 200 days per year. It should also be noted that the market for the chartering of research vessels is very limited, making seasonal monitoring obligations difficult to fulfil. Once the decision has been taken, the time required for the construction and commissioning of a vessel is three and a half to four years. On my instructions, a working group has been set up to discuss the issue of replacing the Belgica, as well as all possible options. It is composed of members of my firm and representatives of the IRSNB (Royal Institute of Natural Sciences of Belgium). Other individuals, including those from the private sector, will also be invited. This working group has already met twice and is currently examining how to optimize the return on investment through potential cooperation with private companies, both in the possible construction or acquisition of the ship and in its use. A follow-up meeting of the working group will be held shortly. This path of cooperation with industry will be detailed later this year. I am convinced that such investment also represents an added value for our economy.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic237x.u8	Madam Secretary of State, I share your analysis. It would have been quite damaging not to remedy the problems of Belgica and not to embark on a new project. I hear you're gonna do it. It's a scoop. We need to talk a little more about this, because it reflects the Belgian State's interest in scientific research, which can bring benefits to our economy and, ultimately, contribute to job creation. I will read your answer very carefully.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic237x.u9	It contains the numerical comparison of the two options.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic237x.u10	Anyway, I'm very happy with the course we're taking.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic237x.u11	In any case, I note that the necessity of a boat such as the Belgica, a tool for research carried out by the scientific community, is not called into question. I understand as well as buying is cheaper than renting, especially since the market is different. I expect a lot from your working group to find out where we're going. At some point, a decision will have to be made. You said it yourself, between the decision and the launch, it takes four years. It is your successor who will inaugurate it. I am interested in knowing the funding model that will be chosen. I do hope that we can maintain this type of research in Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic237x.u12	Mr President, thank you, but since the question was tabled a long time ago, the news has made it possible for me to get an answer to my questions during the summer. I was thinking about withdrawing my question, but if the minister has an answer, I'm asking it anyway. Last April, the Chair of the Science Policy PPS Steering Committee was thanked. An ad interim president has been appointed. This is the former Chief Financial Officer. A Selor competition was held to appoint a successor. Four candidates would be competing for the position. The SPP Science Policy is responsible in particular for the supervision of federal scientific institutions and the management of Belgium's participation in European and international organisations. Given the reforms announced, including the empowerment of federal science institutions, the budget under discussion and the important issues of the moment, such as Belgica or the Polar Secretariat, it is essential to ensure the optimal functioning of this PPS. Is it true that four people are still competing for the position of president of the Science Policy PPS? When is the end of the selection procedure for the Selor scheduled? What are the next steps? When will the new Chair of the Science Policy PPS normally be appointed?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic237x.u13	Mr. de Lamotte, five candidates were competing after the selection made by the Selor. During the follow-up interview, one of the candidates indicated that they were no longer interested in the position. So there were four left. The Selor handled the case very rigorously and forwarded the result of his selection to the Secretary of State on June 26, 2015 by e-mail. The file then follows the procedure as prescribed by the Royal Order of 29 October 2001 relating to the designation and performance of management functions in federal public services and federal public programming services. In concrete terms, this means that I have already invited the five candidates and had a follow-up interview with them. This additional interview will be recorded today in a report that will be attached to the designation file. As prescribed in the Royal Decree I mentioned above, I will compare the specific skills and relational and managerial skills of the candidates. I will then make a proposal that will be deliberate in the Council of Ministers. That's the current status of the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic237x.u14	Is this the status of the case at the moment or has anyone ever been designated?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic237x.u15	No, no. I saw the five candidates selected by the Selor. One of them said he was no longer interested. The other four were registered. We're busy comparing their profiles. Then I will refer the matter to the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic237x.u16	This is the state of affairs, today 6 October at 3.26 p.m.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic237x.u17	We must follow the full procedure. Each candidate will be informed of the results.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic237x.u18	What's the calendar?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic237x.u19	The decision will be made in the coming weeks, probably in November.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic237x.u20	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic237x.u21	Madam Secretary of State, a few months ago I asked a question about problems in accessing the archives of the Royal Palace. You then stated that at the moment almost all the documents prior to 1951 can be consulted in the Royal Archives. You also stated that the Archive of the Royal Palace is not covered by the Archive Act, but uses its own rules that are close to this law. The lack of personnel to take stock of the archive, so that the public can be made, was the main reason why it had not come to this. You would plan a meeting between the general archivist and the chief of the King's cabinet to discuss the matter further. Maybe the solution doesn't have to be found that far. The General National Archives is barely a block away. A merger or close cooperation could be cost-effective and offer the possibility to process and unlock the Royal Palace Archive. That is why I have a number of very specific questions. Firstly, has the consultation between the general archivist and the head of the King's cabinet already taken place? If so, what specific arrangements have been made? If not, when is this consultation scheduled? Secondly, how many visitors have the Archive received from the Royal Palace for the past five years? If possible, I'd like to get the figures a year. Thirdly, how many meters has been inventoried over the last five years? I would also like to have the figures per year here, if possible. Fourthly, how much are the salary and operating costs of the Royal Palace Archive? Fifthly, what part of King Baudouin's archive has already been inventoried? Sixth, do you see any potential savings and economies of scale in a possible merger between the Rijksarchief and the Archive of the Royal Palace?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic237x.u22	Mr Van Hecke, I can tell you that a first consultation took place on Friday 4 September 2015. Additional consultations are planned. The Head of the Cabinet has already shown his willingness to resolve the delays in opening up the archives and to explore ways in which the arrangements for transfer and selection can be better implemented. For the number of visitors to the Royal Palace Archive, I can give you the following figures. In 2010, there were 137 registered visitors. In 2011, 153 visitors were registered and 149 registered visitors were registered in 2012. We have no figures for 2013. In 2014, there were 136 visitors. In reply to your third question and taking into account a minimum distance, I can provide you with the following figures. In 2010, it was 14,93 meters, in 2011 it was 20,46 meters, in 2012 it was 37 meters, in 2013 it was 0 meters and in 2014 it was 15,5 meters. As regards the remuneration and operating costs of the Royal Archives, the costs to be borne by the National Archives are limited to personnel costs in proportion to 0.8 full-time equivalent. The annual budgetary burden is 114 446 euros. This information can also be found in the reply to oral question No. 3525 by Mr Dedecker in the Business Committee of 28 April 2015. As far as operating costs are concerned, the Rijksarchief only finances the packaging material. The other operating costs borne by the National Archives are negligible. The costs of energy, maintenance, network connection and so on are borne by the Royal Palace. As for your question on the part of King Baudouin's archives, which has already been inventoried, I have already answered your written question No. 150. Before the archive files can be opened, the archives should be ordered and described and a scientific inventory published. Unfortunately, we are not there yet. We hope to find a solution to this in the long term and are in agreement on it. You asked a question about the savings possibilities and economies of scale in a possible merger between the Rijksarchief and the Archive of the Royal Palace. Personally, I am in favour of such centralization. It is important that the delay in the Archive of the Royal Palace is first eliminated. In the long term, there may be a tilt at the National Archives, but we are faced with very specific problems. It should be noted that the Archive of the Royal Palace is very diverse and that not everything can be transferred to the National Archives because of its strictly private character, for example because the relatives of the custodian or donor do not agree with the possible transfer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic237x.u23	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for the detailed answer. I'll start with the last one. I note that you are in favour of looking at this further. I can also understand that there are still some practical problems, such as permissions. In any case, the track can be explored further. A better collaboration or a tilt seems to me to be interesting slopes. As far as the figures are concerned, I note that 2013 must have been a special year, as it seems that the number of visitors and the number of meters inventoried have not been recorded. The year 2013 was apparently a black hole.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic237x.u24	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic237x.u25	I will put a new question on that, but it is remarkable. In the general interest, we agree on this point, it must be possible to make such archives accessible to scientific research and the like in the very short term. I don't think there's any reason to put a brake on that. I therefore hope that the interview which has taken place with the Head of the King's Cabinet will soon lead to solutions so that historians, who are often interested in such archives, can carry out their investigations.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic237x.u26	The conversations are continuing.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic237x.u27	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, in 2013, the Royal Museums of Fine Arts announced the opening, for 2017, of the Bruegel House in the heart of the Marolles. This project consists first of the renovation, by the Régie des Bâtiments, of this dilapidated house of the sixteenth century, but protected and classified, which was bequeathed to the Royal Museums in 2007. It must be noted that the opening to the public would not take place until 2019. The conditional is in order since last February, you announced in the media the end of this project for lack of money. This announcement was immediately contradicted in the press by the director of the Museums of Fine Arts, who recalls that this task falls to the Régie des Bâtiments. The reputation of Bruegel l'Ancien explains the legitimate enthusiasm generated by this project, both at the level of the Marolles district, the City of Brussels and Belgium as a whole, as well as the private partners who had already advanced. The cultural, image and tourism benefits make the investment in the development of our beautiful heritage obvious. Madam Secretary of State, do you confirm the abandonment of this project? Did you cooperate with the Régie des Bâtiments? Does the federal government consider that this project lacks interest?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic237x.u28	Mrs Lalieux, as you rightly point out, the renovation of Bruegel's house in the Brussels district of the Marolles is a beautiful project. The federal government recognizes its cultural and tourism value, so the project is certainly not abandoned. The renovation is still on the list of works we ask the Régie des Bâtiments. A monthly Task Force meeting has been set up. It is responsible for following up on the work to be carried out by the Régie on behalf of federal scientific institutions. The first meeting of the Task Force was held on Monday, 14 September, with regard to the General Archives of the Kingdom and the Royal Museums of Art and History. At the moment, no specific date has yet been set for the Royal Museums of the Fine Arts of Belgium and the Bruegel House, but this project is not abandoned.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic237x.u29	Madam Secretary of State, thank you. The date of 2017 is an anniversary. Indeed, in 2017, it has been ten years since this house was transferred to the federal state. It's getting very tiring! I would remind you that the City of Brussels has bought a building for the Federal State which is now abandoning it. I find that cultural investment in Brussels is now completely deconstructed by the federal state. There was a meeting on September 14th; I don't know when the next one is set, but I'll ask you the question every month until I get a schedule!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic237x.u30	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic237x.u31	Of course, the task force is here, but I have to ask you my questions. I imagine that, as a parliamentarian, I cannot ask any questions directly to your administration. That's not happening. So I will address you. I hope that on the anniversary of Bruegel the Elder, this house will be open. It is a canker just in the middle of rue Haute and des Marolles, while we are making considerable renovation efforts in the neighborhood.
