ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic195x.u1	Colleagues, on this radiant 17 June 2015, a number of questions are on the agenda for the Secretary of State, whom I welcome here today.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic195x.u2	Mr President, thank you for having redirected my question to Mr Jambon. Secretary of State, my question dates from April 17 of this year and concerns an event that took place at that time. France and the whole of Europe have experienced an important tragedy in the North of Hexagon. The perpetrator is a 38-year-old Polish citizen who was prohibited from staying in France following a 2009 conviction. It would appear that the individual was passing through the area to go to England. This raises the question of the free movement of citizens belonging to a Schengen country. It has stirred up a lively controversy in Europe. Mr Secretary of State, how many citizens of other Schengen countries are banned from their territory in Belgium? What are our contacts with the authorities of a country where a citizen is concerned by the ban on coming to our home? With the opening of borders, what have we put in place to prevent these individuals from crossing our country or coming to Belgium?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic195x.u3	Mr President, first of all, I have to leave around 12:15, but I think we will have finished the agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic195x.u4	We will do our best to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic195x.u5	Mr President, Mrs Jadin, it is impossible to communicate the number of European Union nationals who have been banned from being on Belgian territory. I will provide you with a summary of the number of ministerial removal orders and royal expulsion orders that have been issued by the Foreign Office vis-à-vis European Union nationals over the last five years. This type of decision imposes a ten-year stay ban on them on Belgian territory. During this period, these persons are reported in the National General Data Bank (BNG) of the police. It is possible that these decisions have not yet entered into force, as this is often the case only when the persons concerned are released from prison. The database contains nationalities only from 2009 onwards, so the previous figures are not available. I will also give you these figures. When nationals of other Member States are intercepted on Belgian territory or when they leave prison, they may be removed from the territory. In order to carry out repatriations, contacts are made with the authorities of the Schengen country of origin, via the liaison officers of the European Union countries in Brussels. Only removal and expulsion orders have been issued against EU nationals. These persons are then reported in the BNG database, but there is no alert in the SIS system as this is not possible according to European regulations.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic195x.u6	Mr Secretary of State, you have recently launched a pilot project planned until September 2015 in the reception centres of Bovigny and Arendonk. The aim is to enable minors who do not have real legal prospects to stay in Belgium, to undergo training which will give them a background in order to build a new life in their country of origin or in a third country. How many youth participate in this program? What are the first evaluations? Do we already know if this project can be extended?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic195x.u7	Honourable member, I have the honour to provide you with the following information. First of all, since the start of the project in September 2014, twenty-three young people have integrated the route proposed by the My Future project. Thirteen MENA are affected by this. I visited them in Arendonk last Friday, accompanied by the Minister of Education of the Flemish Region, Mrs Hilde Crevits. Secondly, the pilot project confirmed the need for specific support for MENA with no prospect of a stay as their majority approached, particularly through two components of the project. The provision of short vocational training is a baggage for young people regardless of their future destination. During its first six months, the project was adapted as follows. We have developed a tailor-made partnership with Arendonk's Sint Klaracollege. The second adaptation is aimed at developing the capacity to act, empowerment, facilitating informed decision-making on the future orientation of MENA. The approach developed in the pilot project also involves an adaptation of the working culture of the professionals of the host network and a change of perspective on the part of the MENA hosted within the network. Some MENA see the My Future pilot project as only a voluntary return journey. Voluntary return is one of the possible scenarios for MENA, but all options are evaluated with young people based on each individual situation. The My Future route is new for MENA hosted in the network. A period of information is therefore necessary for the flow of correct information on the added value of the journey. The pilot project is closely and professionally monitored by Fedasil's MENA service, in particular regarding the individual added value of the journey for each MENA integrating this route. An analysis of the added value of this route will be carried out at the end of the pilot phase in September. The recommendations of this analysis will make it possible to decide on the extension of the project and any necessary adjustments. It is therefore premature to decide on an extension of the pilot project, which is only midway through. I am in favour of the project. At present, it is voluntary, but since the influx of MENA is currently significant, I wonder to what extent it should not be made mandatory. Indeed, even when the MENA do not have a future here, it is very important to facilitate their empowerment and give them opportunities to their majority, also in their country of origin. I'm launching an idea here. A professional evaluation will be carried out by the MENA Fedasil cell.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic195x.u8	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for these answers. We can see, especially by reading the press of the last few days, a further increase in demands. I am pleased to see some success in this pilot project. I will see with you in September what will happen and how this project can, if necessary, be sustained.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic195x.u9	Green (PSE). - Mr President, I should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on his excellent report. Mr De Vriendt (ED). - (NL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating Mr De Vriendt on his excellent report. I'll give you the answer right away.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic195x.u10	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, people around the world still face extremely corrupt political and economic systems that poison the lives of citizens. Such corruption can have a direct impact on the lives of people and can even lead to dramatic situations. It is not uncommon to see citizens forced to flee a country for denouncing or refusing to participate in the corrupt system. Since 1995, the NGO Transparency International has published, annually, an index of the perception of corruption and made it a ranking. This classification is established through surveys of businessmen, risk analysts or academics. Although there is a margin of error, this ranking remains an interesting indicator of corruption in a given country. To give you an example, the case of a national of Kazakhstan, a victim of corruption in his country and having to flee him to protect his life and that of his own, has been brought to my knowledge. The country in question is very poorly classified in this index. Indeed, he held 105th place with a score of 2.9/10. Therefore, Mr Secretary of State, my question is very simple. In granting residence rights, does the Foreign Office take into account the Transparency International Corruption Perception Index in responding to asylum applications?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic195x.u11	Mr. Chairman, Ms. Jadin, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Office of the Commissioner-General for Refugees and Stateless Persons (CCRA) is engaged in the first instance in the individual examination of asylum applications. This body carries out its mission independently. As legislative and executive powers, we cannot intervene in this matter. It is an independent court, the Foreign Litigation Council, which monitors the manner in which CGRA reviews asylum applications and ensures that it complies with the law, law and European and international standards. Each asylum application is considered individually. It is the responsibility of the asylum-seeker to present the elements (declarations, documents, etc.) which concern his individual situation. In addition, the CGRA tries to have the best possible view of the situation in the country of origin. The situation with regard to corruption is one of many other aspects relevant to the assessment of asylum. In this context, a country's position in an index of corruption, for example, is not so important to CGRA. What is more important is the nature of corruption, its dissemination, the possibility of protection, etc. The CGRA Documentation and Research Centre (Cedoma) closely monitors the situation in the countries of origin, including the existence, dissemination and impact of corruption.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic195x.u12	Mr Secretary of State, thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic195x.u13	Mr President, first of all I would like to thank Mr Kir for being able to put my question now. J.A. Apprécie votre geste énormément, Monsieur Kir. Mr Secretary of State, this question concerns administrative simplification, your domain, and is about Telemarc. This is not a new project, it was issued by the Administrative Simplification Service in 2005 and has already been implemented. In fact, this is no more or no less than a web platform on which contracting authorities can immediately obtain the necessary information on a contract award. The necessary documents should therefore no longer be directly requested from the companies, since they can be consulted. This obviously brings with it several advantages, both for the contracting authority and for the undertaking, such as time savings, lower risk, cheaper participation in public contracts, the non-preservation of obsolete documents and so on. Given the possibilities and potential of this positive project, I would like to ask a few questions. Firstly, how many municipalities or local authorities already use Telemarc? Is there a difference in the use of different parts of the country? Is it rather the large or the small municipalities that make use of this? Secondly, can you give me an overview of the current users? Where do you think there's still room for growth? What initiatives do you propose to further promote Telemarc? Thirdly, and possibly the most difficult question, can it be applied to other areas and elsewhere with a statement of honour?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic195x.u14	Mr President, Mr Metsu, between January and May 2015, 312 of the 589 municipalities, 83 OCMWs and six police areas used Telemarc. Since the announcement of the KB in the Belgian Official Gazette on 21 February 2014, public schools, universities, intercommunals, healthcare institutions and all kinds of non-profit organisations have started to contact us to request access. All municipalities can use Telemarc, regardless of the part of the country. For example, we arrive at a coverage rate of 100% in Brussels, 65% in Wallonia and 39% in Flanders. As regards OCMW's, the coverage rate is 11% in Flanders, 15% in Wallonia and 36% in Brussels. The small OCMWFs may use municipal authorities to award their public contracts, which may explain their low level of representation. However, progress is expected there too. We do not have exact population figures, but our source makes a difference between cities and municipalities. Based on this distribution, some 49 cities and 112 municipalities in Wallonia and 39 cities and 33 municipalities in Flanders currently use Telemarc. I'll get you the numbers right away. Telemarc's first target groups were the FODs in 2005, the regional and provincial public services, including the ION's and agencies, in 2007, the municipalities in 2010 and the OCMW's in 2011. In early 2015, Telemarc's access management system was modified. From now on, the CBO numbers will be used, so that different services within the same entity are counted only once. For example, the Flemish, Brussels and Walloon Region now include all the general authorities previously considered as separate services with their own access in our evaluation report. They only have one number now. That will reduce the number, but in practice that will not change anything. It's just a technical change. There is a difference between the way the figures are calculated for certain target groups before and after 2015. Today we are monitoring progress in the use of 12 so-called homogeneous target groups, because we can draw up exhaustive lists of them, ranging from police zones and health insurance funds to public hospitals, schools and so on. Since all contracting authorities of Belgium can make use of it, their number is difficult to estimate, taking into account Article 2 of the 2006 Law and the resulting 2011 Law for the classic sectors and 2012 for the specific sectors, which lays down the concept of contracting authority by law. The number of users is constantly increasing, but given the thousands of potential users, the growth margin remains enormous. Thousands of potential contracting authorities are also very small entities without staff, which rarely or never award public contracts. Although they fall within the scope of public procurement and thus of Telemarc, they are, of course, not a priority target group for companies from the point of view of simplification. For these small businesses, the DAV has long been calling for a simplified access system which is not yet operational. In the past, the DAV has contacted federal, regional and local administrations to announce the Telemarc application, organized seminars and training courses, participated in public procurement information days, and published articles in company magazines. All this to convince both companies and contracting authorities of the benefits of using Telemarc. The DAV will launch a new promotion campaign on my question, with all possible means of communication. Of course, this will be done in cooperation with the sub-areas and representatives of local authorities in the framework of a Telemarc observatory. In addition, the DAV will once again propose to make the Telemarc application mandatory. To date, the application has only been recommended. The simplified access will also encourage small entities to use the system. In 2015, contracting authorities that have access to Telemarc use a simple, implicit declaration on their honour. However, that declaration covers only a limited number of types of public procurement. The statement could thus be extended, whether or not linked to an obligation to use it. In this case, the federal and regional administrative circulars should be amended.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic195x.u15	Mr Secretary of State, this seems to me to be a very complete answer. I suppose I'll get the figures from you myself. My third question, in particular whether the operation can still be applied elsewhere, is an on-going question on which the Secretary of State and his services undoubtedly take care. There will be questions about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic195x.u16	Minister, in a study published last March, the International Federation of Human Rights Leagues (FIDH) ranks Belgium among the 28 Member States of the European Union with 67 human rights indicators and 17 environmental indicators. This study, entitled "The EU Member States under surveillance", is a practical guide for investors in bond markets and aims to encourage them to invest in states that respect human rights. Indeed, every two years, FIDH evaluates States on the basis of updated indicators on the basis of the latest international legislation and on the basis of relevant sources of information. In 2007, FIDH decided, in the interests of comparability of data, to focus on the Member States of the European Union. I will not recall the criteria analysed, you will find them in my inquiry: these include gender equality, development aid, the promotion of corporate responsibility, etc. According to the report, Belgium is in the 19th place in the European Union in the field of human and environmental rights, between the Czech Republic and Italy, although in general it is better when it comes to human rights, where it points to 9th place. On environmental criteria, it is in 27th and penultimate place. Nevertheless, it must be noted that, on the specific issues, it is sadly isolated in the field of migrants' and refugees' rights, since it now points to the last European place with a note of 1.67/10. This figure is based on the following indicators: the percentage of asylum applications approved at the time of the final decision, the ratification of the Convention on the participation of foreigners in public life at local level, the percentage of migrants from third countries having access to the legal labour market and the maximum permissible duration of detention before removal. The conclusions of the report therefore tend to show that respect for human rights requires coordinated and cross-cutting responses. What concrete measures are planned to combat this gloomy picture effectively? According to the government agreement, "immigration policy is not limited to the regulation of residence and reception. It covers a broader whole, which requires a coherent policy beyond the competences and levels of power, while respecting the competences of each. In addition to responding to the phenomenon of migration as such, it is also a question of providing the keys to successful integration and participation of new and old arrivals at all levels of social life. Successful studies and activation in the labour market play a crucial role in this respect."
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic195x.u17	Thank you, Mr. President and happy birthday. Honourable member, I have the honour to provide you with the following information. I find it extremely curious that the percentage of asylum applications approved at the final decision is a criterion in this ranking. The percentage of protection depends on many factors, including the country of origin of asylum-seekers and their profile. The percentage of protection is therefore not in itself a reliable indicator of the quality of an asylum procedure or of an asylum system in a Member State. The way in which bodies such as UNHCR qualify asylum systems is a more relevant indicator. UNHCR has expressed itself on several occasions very positively on the quality of the asylum procedure in Belgium. It describes as "solid" the way in which, among other things, the Office of the General Commissioner for Refugees and Stateless Persons fulfils its mission. Regardless of whether the criterion of the percentage of asylum applications approved at the final decision is relevant as such, I am surprised by the rather low place in the ranking, since in 2014, the CGRA decided, in 46.8% of the files, that the asylum seeker did indeed need protection. In 36.6 per cent of cases, refugee status was recognized and in 10.2 per cent of cases, subsidiary protection was granted. The protection rate had never been as high as in 2014. This percentage was also higher than the EU average, according to Eurostat statistics for 2014. Ratification of the convention on the participation of foreigners in public life at the local level falls within the competence of the Federal Public Service Foreign Affairs. May I ask you to address your question to Minister Reynders? As access to the labour market is a regional competence, I would ask you to ask the ministers concerned in the various regions. In the context of deportation, the return directives provide for a maximum period of detention of 18 months, whereas the Aliens Act of 15 December 1980 limits this period to a maximum of 8 months.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic195x.u18	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, I understand that two of the three criteria that have been adopted are beyond your control; one is the responsibility of the Regions and the other is the responsibility of Foreign Affairs. But with regard to the criterion for migrants and refugees, it is the percentage of asylum seekers approved at the final decision that is relevant. If I understand correctly, you're challenging the figure of 1.67 out of 10. In other words, you consider that this figure does not correspond to reality and you contest it. You will therefore contact the International Federation of Human Rights Leagues to find out how it performs its calculations.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic195x.u19	I'm just saying that considering the recognition rate as an indicator is not a reliable way to work. Indeed, many other elements need to be taken into account, in particular that relating to the country of origin of asylum-seekers. To give you an example, if 90% of these are from Syria, the recognition rate will reach 98%. But if 90% of applications come from people from Serbia or the Western Balkans, the recognition rate will be minimal. In my view, the indicator in question is somewhat arbitrary. I would therefore ask that Mr. Van Den Bulck contacts the Federation mentioned above.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic195x.u20	As I understand you, in the years before, asylum seekers came from countries that did not justify granting them refugee status. While today we are faced with asylum seekers from Guinea or Syria, which is why the rate of recognition is increasing.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic195x.u21	Yes, it already appears in the statistics.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic195x.u22	Thank you, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic195x.u23	Mr President, first of all I would like to say that I regret a comment that I made hot on Twitter, having been shocked by the death of these two people. Mr Secretary of State, events have been relayed in the press last April concerning two asylum seekers who have ended their lives in an attempt to obtain the right to continue living in Belgium. Indeed, on April 2, a 25-year-old Guinean killed himself by fire in the premises of Fedasil. He died the next day at the Neder-Over-Heembeek military hospital. According to the Brussels Public Prosecutor's Office, the elements of the investigation suggest that this is a desperate act. On the same day, a 42-year-old Moroccan was found hanging in the closed centre of Merksplas. This is not the first time asylum seekers have come to put their lives at risk to make their voices heard, in order to obtain the right to remain in Belgium. In May 2008, in Merksplas, a Cameroonian undocumented man committed suicide with sheets, in the toilet, during a break, after his meal. The 32-year-old man had been in solitary confinement since the previous day, following an attempted repatriation that had gone wrong. A second attempt was to take place on the following Monday. He couldn't bear the idea. According to the spokesman for the Office des Etrangers, Dominique Ernould, it is quite often that asylum seekers at the end of the race make threats or go on hunger strike. In the centres, many people are desperate despite the supervision that is at their disposal. Beyond threats, some may act. In ten years, she has already experienced three immolations. Mr Franken, it is quite normal for me to ask you about this. These deaths occurred on the same day, at two different locations, in Fedasil and in a closed centre. I would like to have answers to the questions that we have on this subject. Have you been aware of the definitive findings of the investigation? Do these deaths not raise the human aspect of your immigration policy where, as I pointed out in my oral question on the 2014 report of the International Federation of Human Rights (FIDH), the protection of migrants' rights is of crucial importance in assessing the compliance of EU Member States with their international obligations? On the other hand, I am also thinking of the staff who must have been heavily affected by these human tragedies. Is psychological support provided for the staff of Fedasil, the closed centre of Merksplas and, in general, all services?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic195x.u24	Mr. Chairman, Mr.Kir, the analyses following the suicides that occurred in 2008 and 2015 indicate that several factors would have led people to acts of despair. The person who died in the centre of Merksplas had already been referred by a family member to a psychiatrist in 2010. Particular attention is paid to the inhabitants who need additional support. In case of need, people with serious problems are sent to a psychiatrist. Mr President, I recently visited Bierset at the Red Cross Centre, which is developing the CARDA project. It would be very interesting to have a visit from the committee. The centre welcomes asylum seekers from conflict zones who suffer from war trauma. The Office of Foreigners considers it important that staff and occupants of closed centres be properly cared for after an incident. The closed centres have already had fifteen years of stress teams, formerly called STEAM and, recently, FAST. These teams consist of a small group of people selected from the centre's staff and trained volunteers. They intervene as a result of serious incidents. The basic principle of operation is based on the slogan "Colleges for colleagues". The purpose of these interventions is to take preventive measures to avoid the post-traumatic stress reactions of colleagues who have been directly involved in a serious incident. In addition, a psychologist recruited by the Office of Foreigners offers the necessary support. These teams are supervised by the traumatic expert. If necessary, staff members may use an external psychologist and/or psychiatrist. The occupants also receive the necessary support. There are also stress teams for Fedasil. Following the suicide of a young Guinean, I met the staff involved at the headquarters of Fedasil, in the presence of a Red Cross team stress. The meeting lasted an hour and a half. I talked to the staff. They were still in shock. A staff member was still in the hospital. He went home a day and a half later. We took steps because it happened in the waiting room at the Fedasil Center. That was the waiting room. There's a tender going on right now. An invitation to tender is under way to provide better protection for staff, for example by placing a window in front of the window.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic195x.u25	This is an increase in security.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic195x.u26	"Strengthening" is a big word. It's about giving staff more security, as they ask. In the case of toilets, they must be locked and, when someone has to go to the toilet, they must be accompanied by a staff member who opens the door to avoid conflicts. He set himself on fire in the toilets. Before that, other things had already happened in the toilets, because there is no supervision there. We're working hard on this case.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic195x.u27	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your answers. Do you have the final findings of the investigation? You talked about the case in the waiting room at the Fedasil Center, explaining that action was being taken. In another case, we are talking about a person placed in an isolation cell who allegedly killed himself, according to the information disseminated, using sheets.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic195x.u28	She wasn't in an isolation cell, that's incorrect. I don't have the file in my hand and I don't think it's the place to talk about it. There were other people when that happened.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic195x.u29	The press did not report that the 32-year-old had been placed in solitary confinement since the previous day.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic195x.u30	I read every day that the press says wrong things.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic195x.u31	Will you bring to the attention of the public the conclusions of a report that presents the facts so that all the light is shed?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic195x.u32	I don't know.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic195x.u33	You don't know!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic195x.u34	No, I don't know if it's appropriate.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic195x.u35	However, public opinion needs to know what really happened. That's the least I can do!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic195x.u36	What do you think is public opinion?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic195x.u37	It's all of us, people.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic195x.u38	Yes, but family and relatives are informed. I think that's enough.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic195x.u39	You still need to receive a report from your administration on what actually happened in this closed Fedasil center. This report could be presented. It's the least we can do to work transparently. We're talking about a situation of extreme gravity. Do you not think that it is normal for Parliament to be aware of all the events?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic195x.u40	Mr Kir, I'm going to ask how we did it in 2008. At the time there was a government in which my party did not sit. What about transparency if not communicated in 2008? I don't know how to proceed now. I think that the fact that the family and relatives are properly informed is the most important. I receive weekly requests for individual cases. I have discussed this several times with the chairman of the committee. Especially on the francophone side, many parliamentarians have a strong interest in individual cases. The Chamber has a rule. I also know his "broad" interpretation. But I have to say it's not my job or my job to come every week or every five weeks to talk about individual cases.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic195x.u41	No. I get it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic195x.u42	This is a very tragic individual case. I gave an answer. I am telling you that I am going to talk to Mr Roosemont about how this communication should normally be done. It is not a good idea to say that all transparency must be made in the press on this whole issue. Every day I get questions about individual cases. That's amazing! You're also a mayor. Some things are published in the newspapers, and we cannot comment on them, otherwise the situation explodes. Some information you have cannot be given to everyone. We have to look for balance.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic195x.u43	You're right. I often encounter the situation as a mayor. First of all, I made a mistake when I reacted. The isolation cell should be linked to a 2008 case. I'm withdrawing my remarks from earlier. There was confusion. The person found hanged in the closed centre of Merksplas was not in an isolation cell; this should be recorded in the report. Secondly, we have an obligation to provide a minimum of information. We're not asking you to give the details. If there is a judicial investigation, it is to the justice, at some point, to tell the truth. If the judicial investigation is closed, it is still possible to provide information on the outline of what has happened, without going too far in detail. The right balance must be struck in order to avoid divulging too much information about the privacy of this person and his or her family. I will again let you think with your administration about how best to communicate on individual cases.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic195x.u44	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, at a colloquium held on 24 March, the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men and the Plan Belgique association denounced the extent of the phenomenon of forced or arranged marriages in our territory. From 2010 to the end of 2013, 56 complaints relating to forced marriage were registered with the Belgian police, while from 2009 to 2013, 3,397 asylum applications alleging forced marriage were processed by the Office of the Commissioner-General for Refugees and Stateless Persons. However, according to these agencies, the problem is much broader than the official figures suggest, with victims often refusing to file complaints against their own families. The study conducted by the International Centre for Reproductive Health (IHRC) on the characteristics of forced marriages in Belgium shows that professionals feel insufficiently trained, lack intercultural skills, information and practical tools on the identification and recognition of forced marriages, intervention protocols, legislation and victims' rights. Mr Secretary of State, beyond the official figures on the number of complaints, are you aware of the true extent of the phenomenon of forced marriages in Belgium? How are registrars trained to understand the celebration of such marriages? What tools do they have to detect signs of a possible forced marriage? What procedure should they apply in case of suspicion of forced marriage? What solutions do you propose to strengthen the fight against this phenomenon? The associations have drawn up a National Action Plan 2015-2019 containing concrete recommendations in this regard. Do you intend to follow these recommendations? The Institute recommends, inter alia, the inclusion of forced marriages in basic training for police officers and civil registrars; the development of a circular to quickly and effectively detect signs of forced marriage, as is the case for marriages of convenience; and the development of specific collaborative projects between police, prosecutors and assistance to ensure the safety and support of victims. I would point out that the question had initially been brought to the Minister of the Interior, since it relates mainly to the training of police officers and registrars, but it has been redirected to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic195x.u45	Mrs Matz, I apologize, but the issue of forced marriage is not a matter for me, but for the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic195x.u46	It's a real problem. I'm not talking about you. But this is the third issue that is referred from minister to minister, four ministers in all. See the date: it was tabled at the end of the colloquium on 13 May. She's already been reoriented. It seemed to me that the subject of the civil registry officers, of the police, was related to the Ministry of the Interior. I still have a question, originally tabled in February, about the civil status of Belgian births; it was not linked to the Secretary of State. It has been addressed to four ministers and has not yet been able to find an answer. These are births in hospitals. Belgian hospitals make the birth declaration themselves, in order to avoid parents having to move, which poses a number of problems. For me, this matter fell within the competence of the Minister of the Interior. I was told he was the Minister of Justice. The latter informs me that I should instead address Minister Alexander De Croo. I don't understand anything! We are facing the same problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic195x.u47	I understand you very well. But this matter is not part of my remit.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic195x.u48	Is it not possible in this case to say so?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic195x.u49	Mr President, I said that. Isn't that passed on? I think it has been passed on to the committee that this dossier does not fall within my competence. No? The next time, if that is the case, the question will be redirected immediately because, in this case, you have been waiting for a response for several weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic195x.u50	Mr. Secretary of State, the Regulations provide that, where a question is not within the jurisdiction of a minister, the minister must redirect the question to another minister with jurisdiction over the matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic195x.u51	Mr Jambon has already redirected the matter to the Secretary of State. Whenever my questions relate to registrars and registration, I am told that this falls within the jurisdiction of the Minister of Justice, who tells me that he is not competent in this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic195x.u52	This is indeed not the first time that this problem has arisen.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic195x.u53	The problem of forced marriage really falls within the legal sphere, so I can't help you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic195x.u54	Mr Secretary of State, you are lucky that I have other questions on the agenda because last week I travelled 260 km for nothing!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic195x.u55	However, I had reported that I was sick.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic195x.u56	I know that. I don't blame you at all.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic195x.u57	It's another incident!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic195x.u58	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, I regret that we have come back to an issue which we have already discussed in plenary and committee. The European Commission has presented its action plan on migration. It aims to save lives in the Mediterranean and to fight smugglers and must lay the foundations for a real common asylum policy. The Commission's strategy includes several strands to deal with the current critical situation, whose tragedies in the Mediterranean are the most visible aspect. There is also a longer-term aspect, which is towards the establishment of a stable and effective system for the active management of migration in Europe. Yesterday, the Vice-President of the European Commission, Mr Timmermans, explained to us the need and urgency for more solidarity between the Member States of the European Union and the need to avoid leaving Italy and Greece alone in the face of this reality. Mr Secretary of State, what about the increased cooperation between Europol, Frontex, EASO and Eurojust to gather information on the modus operandi of traffickers? Is a working group or at least a consultation between these different organizations already under way? How do you envisage upstream work with migrants' countries of origin in order to deter them from taking such risks? According to the European Commission's calculation, Belgium should host 490 refugees per year. Is a timetable for procedures already in place?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic195x.u59	Mr President, Secretary of State, this issue is more relevant than ever. I saw on television that you were attending yesterday's summit on the policy of the distribution of migrants within the European Union. There is a real appeal for Italy's help, which now wants to initiate measures to force its European partners to take charge of some of these migrants. 15 days ago, when I tabled my question, you said that the planned European quota for Belgium was not right for you. I would have liked you to be able to share with us the results of the European summit that took place yesterday. I found that a number of countries, including Spain, did not agree. And France seems to be making a fine mouth. She returned migrants who wanted to enter her territory. I do not incriminate anyone, but I am generally struck by the European response to this problem. I know that Belgium is contributing to the recovery of migrants in the Mediterranean. Mr Secretary of State, I would like to know what policy you are advocating on this issue. On the other hand, we also mentioned the problem of reception. The buffer places (2,300 beds) were mentioned by Fedasil. This seems insufficient in view of the future quotas that we have to take over. I am delighted if we can be ambitious about this. What happens before our eyes is dramatic. This failure of Europe to agree on a fair distribution of migrants is shameful. It is contrary to Europe and to the land of asylum that it has always been. We see that countries continue to divide. We're in a sandbox. The situations these people are living there are terrible. If they flee their country, their families and property are threatened. Can we state your position on this issue and the conclusions of the European Council held yesterday?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic195x.u60	Mr Secretary of State, last weekend tensions on the Italian-French border reached a high point, I am afraid, for the time being. This is evidence of a difficult overall European migration policy. On the border with the Italian town of Ventimiglia, the French police forces refused about a hundred refugees. The footage of that has gotten to us. They refused access to French territory and France decided to close its borders to asylum seekers, just as Austria did this weekend. These situations show that a well-functioning, general European migration policy is still far away for the time being. Yesterday and today, the European Ministers for Justice and Home Affairs sit together to discuss, among other things, these issues and those of boat refugees. In addition, the Italian Prime Minister also questioned the Dublin Regulation. That's not new. We know from you that you strongly support the use of read mission agreements. You mentioned earlier the large gap between the number of people who have to leave the territory and the number of people who actually do so. You also suggested the possibility of allowing individual countries to conclude read mission agreements themselves, if Europe did not act quickly. Mr Secretary of State, what was discussed at this summit on refugee flows? Is there any idea of any clear agreement regarding a distribution? What was discussed about the readmission agreements?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic195x.u61	Mr President, we had a summit yesterday and there will be one more at the end of the month, to which the Prime Minister will be present. The Prime Minister is going to that summit. Perhaps a debriefing or a briefing could be requested? I can only suggest it. The questions are about the same subject, they are all different. I'll treat them one after one. This cooperation between the various European agencies, Europol, Frontex, EASO and Eurojust, is indeed mentioned in the European Council statement of 23 April 2015 and in the Commission's agenda published on 13 May 2015. As regards the practical implementation of the various recommendations of the European Council, it is nevertheless necessary to refer again to a third document, namely the road map, on the follow-up to these recommendations of the European Council published on 30 April 2015. This roadmap has been drawn up by the Commission, the European External Action Service and the Latvian Presidency and its follow-up is carried out by the Justice and Home Affairs Council of 15 and 16 June and by the European Council of 25 and 26 June. Several initiatives have already been taken in connection with this point. For example, in April and May, inter-agency meetings on trafficking in human beings were already held with a view to improving coordination and cooperation. Cooperation with countries of origin and transit are also extensively addressed in this road map, in summary, through a Regional Development and Protection Programme (RDP) in three regions (North Africa, the Horn of Africa and the Middle East), the Khartoum process, the Rabat process, mobility partners, EUCAP Sahel, etc. We are making a major contribution to fostering cooperation with third countries. Belgium is an active partner, particularly in the context of mobility partnerships with Morocco and Tunisia, to which it is also a signatory and in the Rabat process. The PRDP for North Africa, which brings together Morocco, Algeria, Tunisia, Libya, Egypt and possibly also Niger and Mauritania, is currently in full development. Belgium is also ready to contribute through capacity-building within the Moroccan asylum system. In answer to your third question, we must first correct the figures given. In its recommendation to the Member States, the European Commission proposes the establishment of a resettlement plan for 20,000 people over a period of two years, which runs from the date of adoption of the recommendation by the Member States. That is Belgium's suggestion.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic195x.u62	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic195x.u63	These are 20 000 people. If the allocation key is considered in the annex to the recommendation, Belgium should therefore resettle 490 people over two years, not one year. The Commission's recommendation must now be examined by all Member States, and will be discussed at the next JHA Council, and has already been discussed at yesterday's JHA. These meetings will surely provide us with more information on the next steps. Mrs Matz, the relocation plan as proposed by the European Commission on 27 May was discussed at the JHA meeting in Luxembourg yesterday. Following this proposal, France and Germany announced this Monday, 1 June, through the publication of a common position, that these temporary relocation mechanisms should be based on two principles of equal importance: responsibility and solidarity. On the other hand, these countries believe that at present the balance between these two principles has not yet been reached in the Commission's proposal, and that the distribution key must first and foremost take better account of the efforts already made by the Member States in the field of international protection. In this respect, Belgium agrees with the statements made by its French and German colleagues, because it also believes that the efforts already made by the Member States in the area of reception and resettlement should be taken more into account in the allocation key. That's also our point of view. The figures show that in 2014, Belgium was the 9th out of 28 countries in the European Union to have received the most asylum seekers, with 22,710 applicants. These are Eurostat data. Moreover, considering the number of asylum seekers per thousand inhabitants still in 2014, Belgium has a rate of 2.1, which is slightly lower than that of Germany, which is 2.5, and higher than that of France, which is 1, and Italy, which is 1.1. We reach twice that of Italy. The European average is 1.2. The figures presented should be analysed and linked to other important parameters. Thus, we realize that Belgium is indeed an important player in international protection. Belgium also believes that it will be essential for Italy and Greece to fulfil their European obligations, in particular with regard to the full application of the acquis communautaire in the field of asylum. In this sense, it is important, as France and Germany recall in their common position, not to overlook the 'Responsibility' part of the Commission's proposal. It will indeed be necessary to ensure that Italy and Greece make every effort to improve the capacity, quality and efficiency of their respective asylum systems, including their return policy. The European Commissioner for Migration and Home Affairs, Mr Avramopoulos, said that on Tuesday 2 June, at the G6 meeting of the Ministers of the Interior in Moritzburg, he was ready to discuss again the proposals presented on 27 May concerning the redistribution of 40 000 migrants between the Member States and in particular the distribution key chosen by the executive. We do not fundamentally disagree with the proposed criteria and the basis of the allocation key. Perhaps it will be fairer if the efforts already made by the Member States with regard to the reception of asylum seekers and resettlement are better taken into account. This is the same position as Germany, the Netherlands and France. In this sense, it would be appropriate to increase the weighting of the average number of spontaneous asylum-seekers and the number of refugees resettled per million inhabitants during the period 2010-2014, currently reflected in the weighting of only 10%. With regard to the emergency relocation mechanism, Belgium will be required, in view of the current plan, to relocate 1,364 applicants to its territory. For the time being, and considering that all the provisions of the Commission's proposal still need to be discussed at European level, including the various practical arrangements for the implementation of the emergency mechanism itself, we do not yet have a defined reception strategy at this stage. Many positions and discussions are still needed before this stage can be reached. It will be very complicated to answer this question because the term migrant – this is the fourth question, Mrs Matz – is a generic term that covers very different realities. Are we talking about an asylum seeker, a recognized refugee? In this case, is there any reference to the cost of the asylum procedure itself or should any assistance received from social services be considered? While the question seems quite direct, it is not possible to answer it without all this information. Mrs Smeyers, yesterday we had an extensive discussion at the Council of Ministers on the European Agenda on Migration, in particular on the crisis measures and the situation in the Mediterranean. I myself have raised a number of priority points. Firstly, I stressed the importance of the link between solidarity and responsibility. Belgium is and will remain a country of solidarity, but something must be done about that. Countries such as Italy and Greece must register all boat refugees correctly. With the increasing power of IS in Libya, it is unacceptable that we should have no idea exactly who is entering Europe, which unfortunately is now the case. Secondly, I have stressed that Belgium has been receiving a very large number of asylum applications for years. This effort must be taken more into account. There are many other countries, such as the Eastern European countries, not to mention them by name, which barely receive asylum seekers. Solidarity through the distribution of boat refugees is necessary, but this must include a correct distribution key and participation of all Member States. Belgium receives thousands of asylum seekers each year, a large proportion of whom have arrived via Greece or Italy. We have barely any external borders, only Zaventem and the ports, and all our neighbours are part of Schengen. Then where did these asylum seekers come from? Before arriving in Belgium, they travelled through several countries, where they were not registered. They do not come via the airport or via Zeebrugge or Ostend and have already travelled through at least one or two other Schengen countries. That means that we've actually been doing informal relocation for years. Thirdly, I have also put the fast return of economic refugees at the centre. It is noted that many boat refugees do not stand a chance of international protection. A large part of it is always economic happiness seeker. The approach I am defending here, together with countries such as Germany and France, is the creation of hotspots in Italy. This can be described as a kind of waiting room, where a triage is made between refugees who have a chance of protection and economic migrants who are not entitled to international protection. Those who do not have a right of residence must return quickly before they can move on to other European countries. The underlying logic is clear. It is not because someone leaves Libya by boat that this person should automatically have the right of residence in Europe after a rescue operation by the Navy. We need a waiting room to control the influx. Finally, I have stressed the importance of the EUNAVFOR Med, the mission to detect and destroy smugglers. Several other Western European countries have taken similar positions. With regard to the proposals for relocation, it was again found that there are significant differences within the EU. On the one hand, Member States want a fairer distribution with a compulsory distribution key. Belgium is part of that first group. On the other hand, there are those Member States that only want a voluntary distribution, such as Spain. That seems to me to be somewhat shortsighted. The result of a voluntary system is that the majority of asylum seekers will eventually end up with us and our neighbouring countries. We know that system. It doesn't work. On 25 and 26 June, the European Heads of Government will re-examine the situation. Hopefully there will be an agreement. At present, countries such as Italy speak dangerous language and threaten to send everyone to other countries by issuing a visa C. This threat is to be dropped in exchange for a firm European approach with the hotspots. It is therefore essential that action be taken in the short term. As far as the reading mission is concerned, we have had a long informal lunch debate with all European ministers. That debate came after Belgium, so I asked in a letter to put it on the agenda. I have therefore been given the floor as the first Member State to share our concerns. You will not be surprised that I have increased the pressure, in particular, to bring the reading mission agreements with the Maghreb countries to a successful conclusion very quickly. In fact, I have recently written a letter to Commissioner Avramopoulos about this. I have that letter here in the French and Dutch versions and I suggest that it be distributed. I have received broad support from the other countries to increase the pressure on the read mission policy. In a few weeks' time, the Commission will come up with concrete measures. The government is following this very closely. If there are no results now, it goes without saying that we are no longer waiting for the EU and that I will take bilateral action myself. I have also announced this and it is also in my policy paper. Mr Avramopoulos has also sent back a letter. You see, when people start sending letters, they usually get answers. That's part of it. This is all very recent. The letter contains a number of expressions of return policy which he lays down. I'll give you this. It might be copied for the committee members.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic195x.u64	Mr Franken, to listen to you, we are far from being out of the inn.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic195x.u65	No one clearly says no.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic195x.u66	But nobody says yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic195x.u67	Many Member States say yes and there is no Member State that really says no. They're very careful. Germany is very strongly committed to compulsory distribution.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic195x.u68	Listening to you, you have summarized the situation that is extremely complex. If I understand correctly, there is first of all work to be done within the government to determine the Belgian position firmly. You said you were waiting for a debate in the government to clarify Belgium's position.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic195x.u69	We have a very clear position.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic195x.u70	It is, like Germany and France, to objectify the situation and the effort already made for years. If we sum up the situation at European level, a number of countries such as Germany, France and Belgium are asking for an objectivation of the situation. Others don't say no but don't say yes and drag things around. In the meantime, the situation in the Mediterranean is urgent. You have concluded that you are going to act and you have given a deadline. You seem in your conclusions to say that if we do not reach an agreement at European level, that will not prevent you from taking initiatives.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic195x.u71	This concerns readmissions, not the discussion of relocation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic195x.u72	When you talk about this idea of objecting to the situation in relation to the European Commission's recommendation concerning the reception of 490 refugees, is your idea to revise this figure downwards?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic195x.u73	It's complex, but there are three factors. The first is the relocation of 1,360 people. With regard to the distribution key, we agree with the principle, but only 10% for countries already assisted in the last five years on the reception of asylum seekers. This element needs to be taken more into account.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic195x.u74	And you ask these for an effort!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic195x.u75	Yes! It is the relocation of people who come to Italy and Greece and we take Syrians and Eritreans. The second factor is the resettlement of people who are in refugee camps in Lebanon, Jordan, Turkey now, but who are not in Europe. They are repatriated by plane to Europe: this is the quota of 490 people, but there is no discussion about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic195x.u76	There's a government agreement!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic195x.u77	Absolutely! The third point is the readmission agreement on return policy!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic195x.u78	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, thank you first of all for your answers. However, you said that the process had not been completed since contacts still have to take place at European level. I know that your department is not responsible for the situation, but it must be acknowledged that the procedure is very slow. Every day, we see images of refugees gathered in the Mediterranean and we feel that there is no European will to quickly find a solution to this problem. You also stated that you were not fundamentally opposed to the proposed criteria, but that you asked for account to be taken of our country's efforts in asylum applications and the figure from Eurostat. For my part, I have the feeling, even if France and Germany defend this position, that we are faced with two different problems. In the end, we will find ourselves facing refugees once they have been admitted. However, we are still facing an emergency situation that requires a special effort without taking into account what has already been done. That is my opinion. On the one hand, there is a traditional asylum procedure with the mechanisms that have been put in place to ensure that applications are processed more quickly. On the other hand, there is an emergency situation with certain persons who should be able to benefit from subsidiary protection, temporary protection, etc. However, as I have already said, Europe is slow in dealing with this issue. You mentioned the figure of 1,364...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic195x.u79	[[.(..)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic195x.u80	It is therefore a question of refugees in the Mediterranean and not of those in the camps. For the latter, you mentioned the figure of 400 people.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic195x.u81	I'm talking about people who arrive by boat, who are collected by the Navy and who arrive in Sicily. (....)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic195x.u82	If that ambition could be met...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic195x.u83	The figure claimed is not so important if one takes into account the fact that there is a reference to a period of two years. Furthermore, in my view, we must take into account the measures that our country has already taken with regard to migrants. Having said that, I can understand that this aspect is not retained by the CDH.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic195x.u84	Secretary of State, this has nothing to do with the CDH. I know you keep coming back on this. My party, in the person of Melchior Wathelet, has implemented the policy that is now in force. So, I'm not saying that we have to let everyone come and that it would be beautiful. Simply, the asylum procedure has been locked. Secretary of State Wathelet was followed by Mrs De Block – and I would like to say: followed by you. However, when I read some statements, I have the impression that this is not always the case. We are facing an emergency problem, which differs from conventional asylum applications. If you tell me that you are going to accommodate 1,400 more people than the quota of refugees, who are currently in camps, it does not shock me. It would then have to be known. If part of the opinion is afraid that the least stranger will come to us, another part – and you see it on social media – is for the moment extremely sensitive to the situation of those people who are allowed to die in the Mediterranean – excuse my rudeness – and knows that they must, therefore, leave their country to avoid persecution, especially by the Islamic State. I regret that I did not hear you yesterday in the French-language media – but I admit that I did not listen to the Dutch-speaking media – explain to us that we could live with the proposed distribution, but that we also had to take into account the efforts made elsewhere. Frankly, I wouldn't have had a problem with that. But people feel like we're still fighting for ten refugees. So, I'm not attacking...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic195x.u85	I had invited the French-language media, but they didn't come.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic195x.u86	In any case, images were broadcast. On the RTBF, we saw you arrive at the European summit.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic195x.u87	You also have to listen to what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic195x.u88	I wish I'd heard you!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic195x.u89	I gave an answer!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic195x.u90	You don't have to convince me. There's a series of people waiting for answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic195x.u91	Mr Secretary of State, I would like to comment briefly on what Mrs Matz said. She uses the word heureusement to refer to you as the successor of the two previous Secretary of State. That is a small distancing of the policy that was pursued two legislative hours ago. It is a pity that Mr Kir has already left. So he didn't hear that important statement.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic195x.u92	He'll be back.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic195x.u93	I didn't say that. I said that I was hoping that the Secretary of State would pursue the policy developed both by Mr Melchior Wathelet in terms of asylum and by Mrs De Block. I wasn't quite convinced. I don't think the translation was good.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic195x.u94	I didn't listen to the translation, Mrs. Matz, but good. I'm getting a chance to replicate now. Mr Secretary of State, you have spoken a long time. Now I can say a sentence too. Thank you for the clarification. It is really important to know the difference between the resettlement, the redistribution as I call it, and the readmission agreements. There is already a political agreement within the government on resettlement. In your policy paper, you have made the decision to increase the number. The redistribution and read mission agreements are the subject of a European decision, which must now be taken. You are right to say that if there is no agreement on the read mission, you are obliged to make your own efforts. I continue to mention redistribution as an exception to the Dublin Convention, which, as you rightly say, has been de facto for years, because certain countries do not accept their responsibilities and simply allow asylum seekers to flow across their territory to the rest of Europe without registering them. One might understand that, but it would be good if the agreement were to be made to register them, but then they would have the permission to submit their first asylum application in another European country according to the correct distribution key. As you say, it is not only in the interests of solidarity and responsibility but also in the interests of security that we know who ends up where and who they are. One must see everything in the right proportion. We must take note of it, but your answer has shown that we are doing so, that you are sending letters to the competent persons and taking initiatives, that this has already happened in the past, and that we have not been alarmed by these images, but that we have already made efforts, as witnessed the relatively high percentage of asylum seekers we have already received and the number of asylum applications we have already dealt with. Additional efforts should be possible, but I believe that it is now up to Europe to catch up with those Member States which are lagging behind with efforts to deal with asylum applications and with the correct reception of asylum seekers, and to take account of the efforts that have been being made by other countries for years. I want to say one more thing. I hope that an agreement will be reached effectively on 25 and 26 June. After all, I fear that the inefficiency and slowness of European decision-making will otherwise be exposed in a very painful way, at the expense of many people's lives.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic195x.u95	According to Fedasil, "relocation involves the transfer of refugees from a country where they have sought protection to a third country that has previously agreed to grant them a sustainable right of residence. This provides a solution for those who cannot return to their country of origin but cannot benefit from sufficient protection or prospects of local integration in the country of first reception."
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic195x.u96	Your visit of Caritas humanitarian organisation to Brussels on Friday 29 May brings forward several disturbing conclusions in connection with this procedure. It is explained to us that 23 refugees whose arrival was planned for 2014 have not yet arrived in Belgium, whereas we are already half the year 2015. At present, 18 of them are still in Burundi and 5 Syrians are said to be unable to leave Turkey. You also mention the fact that none of the 550 refugees scheduled for 2015 has yet been received in Belgium. Mr Secretary of State, do you confirm this? How do you explain that these refugees have not yet arrived?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic195x.u97	Dear colleague, thank you for your question. This will allow me to clarify the situation in this regard. Since 2013, Belgium has had a European resettlement programme with a fixed number of places on an annual basis. This was confirmed in the government agreement of 9 October 2014. A gradual increase was planned to bring the number of resettlement places to 250 in 2019 as part of the European resettlement programme. In November 2014, I decided to double my predecessor's 150-seat quota for this year, which has been increased to 300 places, including 225 for Syrian refugees. With this doubling, we responded to UNHCR's calls for resettlement countries to offer 100,000 resettlement places for Syrian refugees during the 2015-2016 period. Last April, I decided to open another 250 resettlement places for Syrian refugees. This brings the total number of places for Syrian refugees in 2015 to 475 and the total number of places for 2015 to 550. It is therefore, in my view, a significant increase. As you rightly recall, in 2014, we experienced difficulties in bringing in refugees who had been selected for resettlement in Belgium. However, this was the result of circumstances beyond our control. Both the CGRA selection mission and the Fedasil cultural orientation mission took place according to the planned schedule. The fact that of the 75 refugees in Turkey in 2014, only 28 finally arrived in Belgium is due to the problems encountered with the issuance of exit permits by the Turkish authorities. This is a problem that not only Belgium, but also other resettlement countries such as Norway, have faced. UNHCR and various partners have tried to unblock this situation in different ways, which was finally achieved after intervention by the High Commissioner for Refugees, Mr. Guterres. As I speak to you, all Syrian refugees who have been selected in Turkey have, with five exceptions, arrived in Belgium and started their integration journey. That's good news. As far as the Congolese of Burundi are concerned, I have a clarification to make. For reasons of efficiency, it was decided to merge the 25 seats foreseen in the 2014 quota with the 75 seats planned for 2015. Indeed, the organization of a mission abroad for a small group is not very effective. The selection mission carried out in January 2015 by CGRA took place as planned and the selection of 85 Congolese refugees was completed in early April. Fedasil was initially to organize a cultural orientation mission for this group in May. His transfer was scheduled for the same month. However, this mission and departure had to be postponed because of the political tensions associated with the planned presidential election in Burundi. The situation on the ground does not currently permit the departure of these refugees. The Belgian Embassy in Bujumbura, which closely monitors the situation, is working closely with all the partners involved in the resettlement project, including the International Organization for Migration (IOM), to arrange their departure as soon as possible. The resettlement of 225 Syrian refugees from Lebanon is proceeding as planned. CGRA carried out a first group selection mission of some 120 refugees in March 2015. These 120 refugees will arrive in Belgium in the course of September, after the orientation mission. In the same month of September, the CGRA will organize a second selection mission. The second group is expected to arrive in Belgium at the end of the year. With regard to the 250 additional places, which I decided to open in April 2015, the best way to meet this quota is under consideration, in close cooperation with UNHCR and Belgian resettlement partners. Current discussions at European level on a new resettlement plan do not influence the implementation of the resettlement programme for 2015.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic195x.u98	Thank you for this very comprehensive answer. You see, you're starting to be happy that I'm asking you questions. Everything happens. Just for my information, is it still possible for Syrian asylum seekers outside this quota of persons selected by the CGRA to apply for asylum in Belgium, or not?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic195x.u99	If they are on Belgian territory, yes. This is the asylum procedure.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic195x.u100	This quota does not therefore prevent other asylum procedures.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic195x.u101	Of course not.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic195x.u102	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic195x.u103	Madam President, Mr Secretary of State, my question is drawn from information read in the press, on one particular case, but there have been others since then. In the period between the two wars, but also after the Second World War, we experienced voluntary economic migration, which the Belgian State wanted and organised. Today, it appears that an Italian immigrant worker has just received a notice of expulsion from the Office of Foreigners. He arrived on our soil at the age of nine. His father worked in the mines. He also worked for many years in the mines, until their closure. Now retired and receiving his retirement, legally and honestly earned, he is considered a burden for the Belgian State which orders him to leave the territory while he grew up in Belgium, married in Belgium, that his children were born in Belgium, as well as his grandchildren. In other words, his country is Belgium. Unfortunately, this situation does not seem isolated. It appears that 1,040 Europeans were expelled from Belgium by the Office of Foreigners. This procedure is incomprehensible. I remember that there have been cases of this nature in the past. I would like you to explain again the reasons for this request to leave the territory. Do you find it normal that workers who came to Belgium several decades ago to carry out the necessary work and often difficult for the economic development of our country, should now be asked to leave the territory?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic195x.u104	Madam President, Mrs Matz, first of all, I would like to remind you that I cannot provide you with personal data contained in an individual file (Rule 122 of the Rules of the House). However, in order to answer your question in general, I can tell you what Belgian legislation provides for. The Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 29 April 2004 on the rights of Union citizens and members of their families to move and reside freely within the territory of the Member States specifies that Union citizens and members of their families have a right of residence as long as they meet the conditions laid down in that Directive. In certain specific cases, where there is doubt as to whether a citizen of the Union or members of his/her family fulfils the conditions laid down, Member States may verify whether this is still the case, in particular where the citizen has lost his/her right of residence. A European citizen enjoying a right of permanent residence has the right to be absent from the territory for a period of not more than two years. Beyond that, he loses his right of residence and must either provide proof of presence to establish that he has not left the territory for two consecutive years in order to be able to be re-registered in his previous situation, or to prove that he is in the conditions to avail himself of a new right of residence. I would also point out that, except for these serious cases of public order, Europeans are not expelled from our territory but are simply invited to leave it. On the occasion of a question by Mrs Jadin this morning, I provided her with the figures of serious cases of public policy which have been expelled. It is therefore always open to them to submit a new application. This is entirely possible if the European citizen wants to bring forward new elements. Furthermore, if he is no longer in the position to obtain a right of residence on the basis of the directive, he may submit a humanitarian application in which the elements you are making can be taken into account.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic195x.u105	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for that clarification. In the press, it is not mentioned that this would be a public policy problem. Overall, we forget to talk about the two-year period during which the person leaves the territory. I have seen the case of an older person, who has remained abroad for several years and who has returned to Belgium for treatment for a serious illness. In that case, there had been an absence from the territory of more than two years. This condition is not mentioned in any press article and no one is aware of it. The criterion of public order is known, which is normal, but the criterion of two years' absence from the territory is not foreign to the case I have in mind. In any case, this deserves to be answered, as you have just done, on this particular condition.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic195x.u106	Questions Nos 4743 by Mr De Vriendt and 4817 by Mr Ducarme are converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic195x.u107	Mr. Secretary of State, a few weeks ago you were coming to committee with the management of the Federal Agency for the Reception of Asylum Seekers (Fedasil) to present your new reception model. On that occasion, my esteemed colleague Emir Kir, in particular, expressed our concern about the budgetary restrictions affecting this institution. In view of the dark cuts to which Fedasil is a victim, we were concerned about his ability to continue his missions. You wanted to be reassuring. Unfortunately, these reassuring words do not prevent staff from worrying about their future, I believe. Indeed, the signals sent to them are not of such a nature as to contemplate the future calmly. We are talking about the closure of centres, such as the one in Woluwe-Saint-Pierre, the abolition of maintenance staff, considering that residents will be asked to clean up themselves, the outsourcing of catering services or the privatization of guarding services, to name but a few of the most striking examples. At the same time, it is understood that you refuse career extensions to officers who request them, for clearly budgetary reasons. It is in this anxious context that the staff of Fedasil announced the implementation of social actions for the coming weeks. I think it takes clarity in these areas to defuse this situation. In the proposed budgetary framework, can you guarantee the full retention of employment in Fedasil? If not, what services are you actually planning to privatize? Which centres are threatened with closure? What is the volume of staff involved and what are the solutions you are proposing to the workers concerned? In the long run, what is your view of Fedasil in terms of employment? Do you intend, here too, to apply the measures of linear reduction of personnel that the government applies in its other services?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic195x.u108	Honourable member, Fedasil is not subject to linear savings that are applied in other departments, but will have to save 20 million euros in 2016. To achieve these savings, there will be no closure of a federal centre, but the operational positions at the centre of Woluwe-Saint-Pierre will all be converted into buffer places and the staff reassigned to other centres. The impact of these measures is still under budgetary discussion, but will be minimized by assigning more staff to other tasks within reception centres, as far as possible. Fedasil staff provide high-quality work on a daily basis, sometimes in difficult conditions. It is therefore essential for me to be able to focus on the essential tasks related to the reception of asylum seekers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic195x.u109	Mr Secretary of State, I do not often agree with you, but it is a great day; I agree on at least one sentence: the staff of Fedasil do a remarkable job under extremely difficult conditions. The daily context is difficult. I hear a lot of field workers say how difficult it is to ensure this kind of mission with complete peace of mind. I hear there will be no closure, staff will be reassigned. I did not have a reply on the possible privatisation of a number of missions. I do not know whether decisions on this matter have already been taken internally.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic195x.u110	We are still engaged in discussions with trade unions and staff. The 2016 budget will be a parliamentary task for the months of September, October and November. There is no final decision at this time. I know this is important and the discussion is delicate. I've seen the unions and I have to see them again. I'm sure we'll find a solution.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic195x.u111	Mr Secretary of State, I have a question about the reception of asylum seekers in the Lols, asylum seekers who are assigned to a local reception initiative during their application procedure for the necessary material assistance. In a new circular letter, we have been explained by Fedasil, it is now reported that after recognition within three months a permanent residence must be sought by an OCMW. Apparently, more and more municipalities are having difficulty getting this around, so they say that they no longer want or can take care of asylum seekers. In Riemst and in Peer the alarm bell has been pulled, in Peer 13 shelters have been closed. Bruges would like to reduce 176 places to 13 places. The reason for this would be a lack of money from local authorities, cities and municipalities. However, and that's common knowledge, LOIS are well subsidised by the federal government. Mr. Secretary of State, were you aware of these problems at the local shelter? Have you been spotted in time? Is it true that the allocation to a fixed home within three months could lead to budget problems? How do you see a possible solution?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic195x.u112	Mr President, the closure of a number of local reception initiatives at OCMWFs is part of the implementation of the 2015 budget, in particular the phasing-out of collective LOIFs. The LOI of Bruges formed 13 collective places to individual places and remains open in this modified constellation. In Riemst and Peer it's about spontaneous closures, which is not uncommon in LOIS. After all, no increase in natural closures of LOIS compared to previous years is observed, which are compensated by new LOIS. In implementation of the coalition agreement, Fedasil has launched a pilot project to allocate recognised refugees and subsidiary protected persons from five reception centres to LOIS, where a transitional period of three months is applied instead of the normal two months. By receiving them in LOIS, they are just trying to promote their integration into the local community. In doing so, Fedasil provides the necessary budget during this three-month transition period.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic195x.u113	Mr Secretary of State, these are spontaneous closures which are fortunately compensated by openings in other places. I insist that the new reception model, as explained by Fedasil, will bear fruit in the long term. However, there are some childhood diseases, each change requires adjustments. It is necessary to provide adequate information to the OCMWFs and to explain to them the importance of the ratio of that new accommodation model. As you yourself say, this can only benefit the rapid integration of recognised asylum seekers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic195x.u114	Mr Secretary of State, the return centre in Holsbeek was established in 2013 by your predecessor, Mrs De Block, and is mainly used for the care of families with children who want to return voluntarily. Pending their respite, they must go to that open return centre. Last Saturday it was announced that the centre would be closed at the beginning of this week and that staff would be deployed in other centres. That decision would have been reportedly sudden and, according to the trade unions, without consultation. The reason for closure, as you have explained, would be a shortage of staff in the closed centres. This is an understandable policy choice which must be taken into account in the return of illegal criminals, who must of course be taken into custody in closed centres. The 40 residents will be transferred to other centres and the staff will thus be employed in the closed centres. Mr Secretary of State, can you clarify why, in your search for personnel, you specifically chose to close the open return centre? How efficient or inefficient did that center work? Do you have any figures on that? How many families were received on average? How many people are we talking about? What about the effective outflow? How many did they actually return voluntarily?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic195x.u115	Mrs Smeyers, given the focus on the forced return of criminals to illegal residence, the closed centres are a policy priority for me. I have provided additional staff to keep those centres open and increase their capacity. At present, however, there is an acute shortage of staff, which does not guarantee security. The pressure is high to reduce capacity in the centres. This would make it impossible to maintain the number of forced repatriations. The OTC had a rather low average occupation in recent months: 30 residents per day. The total capacity is 35 rooms for three people. However, families are not mixed, so the realistic maximum capacity is 80 people. The target audience was dwindling. There were 561 persons in 2013, from 13 May to 31 December. That's 911 families. In 2014, this fell to 335 people or 78 families for a whole year. For 2015, from 1 January to 30 April, we only had 72 people and 23 families. Due to the limited number of families in the OTC currently it is possible to accommodate them in the housing units. Hence the option of closing the centre at least temporarily and using staff as efficiently as possible in view of the problems in the closed centres. In April 2013, the OTC was opened at the former Formula 1 hotel in Holsbeek. The establishment of the Centre was part of a coherent approach to the return policy of the DVD. In the centre, families with underage children are accommodated in illegal residence, which the OCMW finds to be in need and whose parents are unable to comply with the maintenance obligation. In addition to material care, the families were also accompanied to find a sustainable solution during the stay in the OTC to end their illegal stay. This was mainly aimed at return. The result was in 2014 that 487 families were assigned to the OTC by Fedasil. In effect, 88 families of these stayed in the OTC. Of the 487 only 88 of them arrived effectively, of which 78 families and 355 were residents in total new registrations. Of the 80 outtakes in 2014, people who left the center in 2014, 23 families or 29 percent returned voluntarily. 11 families or 14 % were housed in a housing unit for return. Then that's the forced trajectory. Eight families or 10 % were assigned another shelter. Three families or 4 % were granted a temporary stay. Thirty-five families or 43 % left the OTC without a doubt. Of the 478 families assigned to the OTC, only 88 came final. Of those, 35 just disappeared from the OTC. There doesn't have to be much explanation for those figures.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic195x.u116	Mr Secretary of State, these are striking figures, which only confirm the inefficiency of the open return centre. I can only conclude that it is a clever use of the limited resources that each department, including yours, has to contend with. It is also entirely in line with what has been agreed in the federal government agreement and with your policy vision.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic195x.u117	I have additional figures.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic195x.u118	I haven't been able to write them all down. I was hoping you'd hand them over.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic195x.u119	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, as you know, my group has a long-standing interest in the issue of medical regulation, known as '9ter'. In this context, he has already been able to ask your predecessor many times about how these regularizations are granted and the conditions under which medical consultants are required to do their job as a doctor. Recent developments lead me to resume with you the debate that began during the previous parliamentary term. In fact, not only certain cases - including that of a five-year-old child with a genetic disease, who arrived in Belgium shortly after his birth, who was educated in Belgium and was the subject of an order to leave Belgium for the second time - strongly underline the coldness of the administrative approach in these matters. However, the Federal Ombudsman found the situation worrying enough to deal with an investigation into the practices related to these cases. It will be recalled that some physicians themselves have found it preferable to resign from their duties with the Foreign Office, rather than to pursue practices that they considered incompatible with Hippocrates' oath. Indeed, some say that they have to decide on individual cases without having the opportunity to receive patients in consultation! These various elements therefore lead me to ask you the following questions. Have you given instructions to the Foreign Office to facilitate the Federal Ombudsman's investigation of the matter? Will all the doors be open to him and will the agents possibly have the opportunity to talk to him in complete discretion? Can you possibly tell us if any initial steps have been taken and when the conclusions of this investigation can be reached? Can you also give us the guidelines that guide the judgement of the Agency's staff on medical regulation? On what basis do they determine whether or not care is available in the country of origin? Should it also be understood that, in the Office's actual reading, the 9ter can only be considered if "definitive" treatment of the disease causing the application for a residence permit exists on Belgian territory? It would be a very restrictive reading of the concept of vital diagnosis! Could you tell us whether, or not, the medical consultants who have to decide in the case of regularization receive the patients in consultation in order to establish their diagnosis?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic195x.u120	Mr. Hellings is sorry, he's abroad.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic195x.u121	I am going to be quick, Mr Secretary of State, because I had the opportunity, fifteen days ago, to question you in plenary on this issue and you had quite rightly recalled that the filter policy had already been put in place, a few years ago, by your predecessor Melchior Wathelet. Two points asked me in this procedure. When there is doubt, do you order medical counter-expertise in relation to what is mentioned at the level of the doctors of the Office of Foreigners? I also wondered about these permanent reintroductions of procedure, about the change of decision of the Office which takes a new position in order to avoid an appeal from the persons concerned. You answered these questions by explaining to me that the Foreign Office met with the family and its support committee the next day, in the case we are currently concerned about. Even though the family was relatively satisfied with the interview, one question remained: what procedure are you going to follow now? Has a decision been made in this case, which is very difficult, because if the child concerned is expelled, he probably goes to death in his country of origin?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic195x.u122	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the systemic analysis by the Federal Ombudsmen of the department concerned at the Office of Foreigners is under way and has been initiated on the basis of a written commitment by the Chairman of the Internal FPS Steering Committee who has fully collaborated on this study. However, contrary to what Mr Kir has just said, this study does not deal specifically with the administrative aspect of this matter but with the functioning of the service in all its various aspects: logistics, hierarchical, administrative and medical. The Office of Foreigners (OE) and all its agents are of course fully involved in the ongoing analysis. On the other hand, it is not up to me, but to the federal mediators, to ask the question of when their final report will be publicly available. The honourable member refers not to several but to a single doctor who has been on duty at the OE for only a few months. Since the spring of 2013, this person has been issuing statements about so-called illegal because non-deontological instructions, whereas since that same date, he has not provided any evidence or beginnings of evidence to support his claims. In fact, I leave it to the mediators to see through their investigation that such instructions do not exist. Their non-existence has been confirmed several times by my predecessor, who, as you know, is a doctor in addition to being Minister of Public Health. For the processing of applications for residence on medical grounds, the guiding texts are Article 9ter of the Act of 15 December 1980, the Royal Decree of 17 May 2007 and the Circular of 21 June 2007. Medical sources consulted include internationally recognized professional and academic sources, embassies, relevant national authorities, European MedCOI networks and some NGOs. These sources are not appreciated or chosen by the minister's delegates but by doctors. I'm not a doctor. The interpretation which the honourable Member expresses is not the meaning of Article 9ter of the Act of 15 December 1980 or the application which the OE makes of it. The only correct interpretation is derived from a reading of the first paragraph of this article: "Suffering from a disease such as to cause a real risk to life or physical integrity, or a real risk of inhuman or degrading treatment when there is no adequate treatment in the country of origin or residence". Adequat is not synonymous with definitive. Moreover, it is clear from the reading of Article 9ter, § 1, paragraph 5, that medical consultants of the Office of Foreigners may always, if they deem it necessary, examine the foreigner. The law leaves them with the complete independence to assess the possible need for such an examination, which is in no way imposed since medical consultants do not have a diagnostic mission. Indeed, section 9ter does not provide for a diagnosis of a patient, but only a notice of whether or not the dossier submitted by the applicant meets the requirements of section 9ter. They are therefore in no way the treating physicians of the applicants, who are the only ones entitled to make a diagnosis. Their freedom to assess the possible need for an examination and the absence of any obligation to do so are confirmed by the settled case law of the appeal bodies. Ms Matz, the interview between the Director General of the Office of Foreigners and the Support Committee of the persons concerned was constructive. The decision was explained and the legal possibilities were drawn up. For the rest, I do not want to speak on an individual file. If it appears from the opinion of the doctors of the Office of Foreigners that the life of a foreigner is in danger in the event of his or her return, he or she will be regularized. This has been the case in the past, and it will also be so in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic195x.u123	I have a question about the work of the Federal Ombudsman. He is currently conducting his investigation. Do you have anything to say about this?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic195x.u124	They're totally independent. I don't know.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic195x.u125	Don't you know?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic195x.u126	I know there's an investigation, but I don't know what they're doing.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic195x.u127	They meet with the officials.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic195x.u128	They're very professional.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic195x.u129	Let me briefly return to your last sentence. A few years ago, the child in question was in danger and he received a residence permit. Today, he is no longer in danger when he has the same disease, which is still not recoverable in his country of origin. I hope that your last sentence "It will be so for the future" is full of hope for the matter before us. (Minister's denial) Non? J'en prends note.
