ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic217x.u1	Good morning, everyone, we have today invited the Director-General of the FANC, Mr Bens, on the one hand to explain to the committee and to answer questions about a number of statements he has made recently and, on the other hand, to give a final update on the status of a number of nuclear power plants. Mr Bens is prepared. I suggest he start his presentation. The members of the committee may then ask any necessary questions. The secretariat has informed me that no reporter should be appointed because an integral report of the meeting will be drawn up. The report will be available to the members of the subcommittee tomorrow.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic217x.u2	Mr President, will the report be a full report? [[Oui]] All right. Will we have it tomorrow? It's perfect. What form will it take next?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic217x.u3	It will be an integral report, as in plenary. Our services will make it happen. We'll have it at our disposal tomorrow.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic217x.u4	It will therefore be available on the Chamber's website.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic217x.u5	Mr Bens, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic217x.u6	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As you said, the article published in Le Soir on 1 June has caused a lot of comments and emotions. I certainly understand that. I have already explained this to the board of directors of the FANC two weeks ago, and I am now going to explain the same things in all transparency. First of all, as far as Kazakhstan is concerned. In any case, I would like to emphasise very strongly that integrity is a very fundamental thing that I hold very strongly to. I totally reject any form of corruption; in all my career, in all my life, I have done so. I've never done anything like this, including Kazakhstan. The only time I have felt compelled to give money to someone is that one situation where a colleague broke his leg at night and the doctor didn't even want to look at it. I got that boy into a hospital and he was still there with his broken leg a few hours ago in pain. The doctor refused to look or provide care without seeing any money. Then I have been guided more by the humanitarian and the human to give money to that man, but for the rest I have never done anything like this throughout my career, and I totally reject it. There have also been a number of comments about Fukushima's accident. In the newspaper there was an intermediate title "Fukushima," only two deaths. That is, of course, out of context. That interview with the reporter lasted over two hours. There has been talk of everything, including everything that has happened in Japan, the earthquake, the tsunami, the nuclear accident, and the fact that on the site itself two people have died and that is important. This does not, of course, reflect the consequences of that accident, because of course they are enormous, both socially, for the people and the environment, such as the evacuation that was necessary, and psychologically. The long-term consequences, both psychologically and in terms of the physical health of the people there, are not even established yet; they still need to be studied. That is still being closely followed up in Japan. We have also learned lessons from it in Europe and Belgium. Europe has prescribed the stress test. In Belgium, we have gone even further than what Europe is asking for. We have had the stress test carried out in all nuclear installations, not just nuclear power plants, and we have taken an even wider scope. Finally, we have also learned lessons to write our directives on the conditions to be met by new installations. These guidelines were published a few weeks ago and there is already a great deal of interest for them from abroad. I am very sorry that these statements and my interview were reduced in this very limited subtitle of the newspaper, which therefore absolutely does not represent what I have said. I regret that this could be reflected in the Agency, whose impartiality, integrity and credibility should not be called into question. The third point is the law which is now called the "Law of 28 June", since it has been signed by the King in the meantime. When I did this interview – in May, I think – there was still some confusion: in what direction was it going to go? There were many legal opinions, not all of which were in the same direction. For me, what is important and for nuclear safety, what is important is to have clarity in the legislation and the rules. If there's confusion, it's always dangerous. What I want is clarity so that the operator and the Agency's auditors can do their job. So I'm happy with two facts in the meantime. The fact that the law has now been passed. The text of the Act gives the exact context. There are also the conclusions of the Brussels Court of First Instance, which ruled in a case brought by the ASBL Greenpeace Belgium on the validity of operating authorisations. The judge's position was very clear. This allows us, within this well-defined framework, to move forward with the file. The political decision for Doel 1 and 2 was taken on 18 June. This is enshrined in the law of 28 June. Now it is up to the Agency – this is the next point – to ensure the technical conditions for this long-term operation. I'm starting to refer to the slides. For Doel 1 and 2, first a small history. The operating authorisation for Doel 1 and 2 was granted in 1974 for an unlimited period. All farms are therefore time-limited, but a 10-year review of safety is planned – typically in Europe. Unlike the United States where authorisations are issued for a defined period of up to 40 years, in Europe authorisations are defined for an unlimited period but with the expectation that they should be reviewed every 10 years. Important next step: 2003, when the law of exit from nuclear power was passed and imposed for Doel 1 and 2 the two termination dates that are there. In 2014, the government announced that it would review this legislation and the production end date it wanted to move ten years ago. For this reason, in the government agreement, there were three conditions: that it be endorsed in a law (this is the law of 28 June); that there be an agreement on nuclear rent (this is a discussion that, as far as I know, is still under way; therefore, I am not going to talk about it, it is not my business); that there is an agreement of the safety authority, therefore of the AFCN (this is what I am going to talk about). How does the PSAN fit into this file? As soon as there was a willingness to change the law of the nuclear phase out, the Agency published its policy and specifically asked the operator, Electrabel, to establish an integrated action plan. At that time, a lot of actions were taking place. There were the actions envisaged by the classic 10-year review and those to make the operation in the long term. There were still actions planned by the stress tests that had been done a few years earlier and, finally, there was also the inspection of the tanks. Due to the problems of Doel 3 and Tihange 2, they were also required to do an examination of Doel 1 and 2 tanks for this kind of problem. An integrated action plan was requested. Electrabel released this action plan, this synthesis report, in April of this year, in which priority actions in the short term and non-priority actions in the longer term were distinguished. What are the priorities for action? The execution of all regulatory inspections, carried out with a well-defined periodicity. Some must be done every ten years. It is clear that these inspections must be carried out before the fortieth anniversary. The tank inspections were also included. An inspection of all components and structures is also carried out to see if they are still in good working order, i.e. a very detailed inspection of all installations which must be completed for the continuation of operations. There are preconditions for long term operations. What is particular in this regard is the guarantee of sufficient staff. As the operator planned to shut down the power stations, he wanted the least social problems. Now that the decision changes, there is a need for a staff, all the staff needed for both the operation and the project. This is certainly an issue that the Agency must take care of. Finally, the operator must demonstrate that all safety-related installations can still perform the necessary functions, i.e. they are in good working order, that they are resistant in the event of an accident – a lot of appliances have to work in this case – and that under accident conditions (temperature, pressure, high humidity) they still have the possibility to function properly. These are the short-term priority actions. In the longer term, for the management of ageing, it is important to replace electrical components and instrumentation, the components most affected by ageing. A programme of intensified maintenance or replacement, if necessary, of these components as well as a lot of actions to improve safety, the 10-year revision of the stress tests, which are also to be carried out in the longer term, i.e. within three to five years of the date t-0. In May, the Agency agreed in principle on this action plan, on the completeness of the actions included and how to prioritize them. This is only a fairly comprehensive agreement at this stage, not yet in detail. With this agreement, Electrabel continues to do the work. They make the detailed planning, the detailed description of all the actions they will carry out. It is a detailed plan of action that they are in the process of drawing up, which should soon come to our home. Step five, the Agency will review this plan. The first important thing is that we will decide on the significance of the planned changes. We will also examine the need to do an environmental impact report and consultation with the public, Belgian and possibly also abroad. In fact, this is already provided for in the current Belgian legislation, that if changes are made to nuclear installations, the Agency will look at the impact of the change, whether the permit should be changed or an environmental impact report or an international public consultation should be carried out for that purpose. Then we will analyse it and impose it on the operator if necessary. What we also intend to do is to give more legal force to the conditions of the integrated action plan and to integrate it into the permit. The security authority has the opportunity to adapt and tighten permits on its own initiative. We are considering doing so for the time being, in order to put that action plan there effectively into the permit in such a way that it becomes truly formally binding. The next step is that Electrabel has to do all these actions. That's just a little rule on the slide, but that's the big mass of work. Once that's done, the security authorities are going to make FANC and our branch Bel V delivery reports. If these delivery reports are then finalized, if all the points are done, then the plants may be restarted. For priority actions and as time progresses with the dates set out in the Action Plan, if they have been delivered before the deadline, they can also run beyond. So that's for Objective 1 and 2. I would also like to take this opportunity to give a brief briefing on the subject of Objective 3 and Tihange 2. There it is foreseen that Electrabel will have to submit a justification file. It is always the operator who must demonstrate that its installations are safe. So in this case, that's exactly the same thing. Electrabel serves a dossier in the'safety case' we call that 'in which they demonstrate or have to demonstrate that those plants can operate safely'. That report will be about three themes. One is the inspection. What exactly did they see in it and are the results of that technique reliable? The second point concerns the properties of the materials in which those fault indications are contained, the mechanical properties. The third is the conclusion, which takes things together and demonstrates that the structural integrity of the reactor vessel is still guaranteed in all circumstances. This slide repeats this in a bit more detail: the ultrasonic inspections with the qualification of the MIS-B device, i.e. the inspection device, and the results of the inspections. I think I showed the results to this committee a few months ago. The qualification of the technique with the new thresholds gave rise to results with slightly larger values of indications. There we also call on AIB-Vinçotte, which is the recognised institution for that type of inspection. The second point concerns the mechanical properties of the material under irradiation. There are campaigns, mainly at the Nuclear Energy Study Centre in Mol. The major question which remains open is to what extent the results of the tests on the test blocks are representative and transferable to the reactor vessels. We have not been able to cut out a test block of the reactor vessel itself to test it destructively. So we have a lot of things: material from the reactor, but without the hydrogen flakes, or material with hydrogen flakes coming from somewhere else. How can all this be combined to assess the properties of the reactor vessels themselves? A third point is to bring together all this data to show that the reactor vessels are operating normally in all circumstances and are certainly maintaining their integrity even in accident conditions. We also call on external advice. For the mechanical properties we have brought together a group of about ten international experts and professors who have looked at the issues. For structural analysis, we also call on an external team, an external lab, which carries out such cases more often, to review everything thoroughly, so that we certainly do not make mistakes or leave blind spots. The analysis is done, as I said, by follow-up by the security authorities themselves, namely the FANC, Bel V and AIB-Vinçotte, who investigate everything independently. External assistance comes from the International Review Board for mechanical properties, the external research team for structural analysis, and everything is also monitored by our Scientific Council with Belgian experts, which is divided into a number of sub-groups, working groups for sub-topics. Those working groups may also call on external experts. That's how I explained the approach. Electrabel is, for the moment, I understand, about finishing up their safety case. Electrabel will soon submit it to the FANC and then we will start consulting with our independent analysis and independent experts in order to give an opinion on the start-up file. We will certainly not be put under any pressure. We will take all the time to make an informed decision, whether it is good or bad, whatever you look at it, each from its point of view. We certainly do not want to make a hasty decision, because my last slide is why do we do this? The FANC's mission is solely to protect the population, workers and the environment from the dangers of radioactive radiation. Voilà, that's pretty much an overview of the various files that are pending.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic217x.u7	I assume there will be a few more questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic217x.u8	Thank you very much for your statement. In any case, I would like to welcome you again to our committee, in good health, which gives us great pleasure. We are also very pleased that you spoke clearly in your introduction about integrity and nuclear safety. I think that is very important and that our committee is very happy to hear it that way. That's the line we expect from you and the FANC. When it comes to the dossiers we are discussing, Objectives 1 and 2, on the one hand, and Objectives 3 and Tihange 2 on the other, our subcommittee still has a few questions. We have seen the communication of the FANC, which is largely in line with what has been shown here on the slides, about the agreement with the principles of the report submitted by the operator. As far as the division between priority and other actions is concerned, it is not entirely clear to me whether there is a formal agreement on what belongs under priority and other actions. That's where the knot lies. What actions will have to be carried out for the effective re-launch of these plants, and which will then be implemented? I would like to hear from you whether there is a clear agreement. Are those priority actions in place today? Or is that only in the detailed plan that the operator is required to submit? I understand that this is the next step that we are waiting for. For example, it is possible to say exactly what will happen when in terms of timing. I assume that we will then talk in the first instance about timing up to the effective reboot and also a timing for the other actions. It seems interesting to us to see how you see it and to know today what the priority actions are, which are absolutely necessary. When it comes to the possible environmental impact report to which you referred, or the public consultation, will it be a process of consultation on the whole of the actions? Or do you see it more per action? I can imagine that you consider that a public consultation is necessary for certain actions, but not for others. Is this going to be looked at by action or will it be a total package, which will then continue to work to see what is possible? As far as timing is concerned, I am still not quite clear on what this will look like. I suppose it will depend on the moment when the detailed report will arrive at the FANC and when you have been able to look at it in full and assess it in full detail. Are there any guarantees from the operator when that plan will come? If we were to set the timeline, we would have done the same to you during the hearings, where would we land in the green light of the FANC or not? What do you think is realistic when we look at Objective 1 and Objective 2? Then we get to Target 3 and Tihange 2. In this context, I have the impression, above all, that we are not yet at home and that we will have to go through the route that has been started in all honesty for a long time to be absolutely sure that we are achieving the right results and that we also have the assurance that these power stations can be operated safely. I assume that you will not actually be able to give a date in that respect. I would ask you to make an assessment so that we know where we stand. In the field of nuclear safety throughout the Doel site, a number of proposals and alternatives have been launched here in our committee, which can also have an impact on nuclear safety. In the meantime, has the FANC taken further action, done study work or taken a position on, for example, the safety lines, which should remain available throughout the process? I thought I understood that, in the context of the stress tests, a number of things were determined in terms of strengthening the high-voltage lines, the power lines to the Objective cluster. I hope to hear from you whether you can tell us anything more about this. We would certainly be interested in that. I suppose that's a question that might come back soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic217x.u9	Mr President, I would also like to thank Mr Bens for being here. I hope, of course, that your health problems will gradually be resolved because human beings are involved in all of this. Mr Bens, of course I wish you no longer had any health problems. Since that's what brings you here first of all, even though we talked about something else later, I would obviously like to go back to your interview. This has given rise to a great deal of confusion but also to more fundamental problems for the Agency: a problem of competence, a problem of credibility and a problem of trust. I have said it, I have repeated it and I repeat it today before you because it is important that you hear it too from parliamentarians. On reading this interview, there is a problem of trust, as one has wondered whether the Agency and its director are still capable of fulfilling missions that are fundamental to all of our citizens and to the state. As we have always said and repeated, Mr Bens, the Agency must communicate clearly to the public, in complete transparency, with pedagogy. What you are being blamed for today is not to speak to you; an Agency must speak out and its director must speak out as well. That's the way you did it during this interview. So, first question, why did you want to give an interview? Why an interview like that? Have you read it before publication? It seems so. Did the communication team still reread this interview or not? I don't know if you've realized that talking about corruption in an interview isn't annoyance. You later explained yourself by defining corruption. We have heard your justifications in the same way as the board of directors. You minimized the Fukushima accident, which still created a cataclysm around the world, while the accident did not occur in an undeveloped country or in an old power plant. You talked about legal acrobatics. Did you really think it was wise in the performance of your duties? You have huge, important functions in this country; you are entrusted with them and you must be credible in relation to the population, in relation to this Parliament. So this interview really undermined the credibility of the Agency. With the AC, you later decided to reform the communication policy to prevent polemics from reoccurring. What is this amendment? Above all, how can we restore this credibility and confidence to the citizens? A gendarme, the AFCN, you have tried to show us here, must remain neutral, above all suspicion and intact from the pressures. I heard you were going to be. But you must be neutral with regard to government and private operators. We can obviously ask ourselves questions in the light of your comments. When you spoke of corruption, even if you justified yourself, and minimized the Fukushima accident, we had the impression that it was the Nuclear Forum that was talking to us, Mr. Bens, and not the CEO of AFCN. And that's what the public heard. This has shaken the confidence that Parliament had in you – and, I believe, within the population itself. It was an accident more than serious. We can't accept that kind of talk. In view of this crisis of trust and credibility, do you still feel that you are able – if you are in front of us, I imagine it is yes – to fulfil the function at the head of the Agency serenely? What was the content of the discussions on the Board of Directors? Above all, what measures are you considering to regain public confidence? It's good to be in front of us and in front of a CA - we know that the statements are confidential, as the Minister of the Interior has said - but I think it's with the public that you have duties. We're waiting for these homework to be completed. I ask you to speak transparently, neutrally and without pressure, to the press and not to remain silent. The press must receive a clear message from the Agency. Here too, how will you restore that trust and credibility? With regard to the extension of Doel 1 and 2, it is true that the Agency was given a long silence in relation to the bill. And then, in the interview, you mentioned "legal acrobatics a little weird." Of course, we were in the middle of a parliamentary debate. You can well hear that when it is the sector gendarme who says that, it also creates a doubt and emotion – which the opposition was already feeling. I imagine that the majority then asked themselves a few questions, even though they voted for this project as one man. This was in addition to three successive negative opinions of the Council of State. We all remember, Mr Bens, the hearings held at the end of March in the Economic Committee on this extension of Doel 1 or Doel 2, at which I first asked you the question of the legal soundness of the bill, in particular the environmental impact assessment and public consultation. At that time, you were unable to answer the questions clearly and you said that you were going to order a legal study to be able to answer them. Stibbe was responsible for this and I must say that his analysis more or less confirms that of the Council of State. If I talk about it today, it is not to go back to the debate because the vote has been taken. The debate took place in the majority. But, as I have always said, legal insecurity is great. When AFCN is required to enforce this law, it may, at some point, be in this legal uncertainty and of course it will be a party to the trial. As part of one of your slides, you intend to take action: "Step 5: Analysis of proposed changes and analysis of the need for an environmental impact assessment and public consultation". However, you do not tell us, or you will do it again, if you consider it necessary today, the list of priority work being almost finalized by Electrabel, an analysis, an environmental impact assessment and a public consultation. I'm asking you the question. What is the current position of AFCN as a result of Stibbe's analysis of the fact that an impact assessment would have been required before this bill was tabled and voted on? I think you are in legal uncertainty because there has been no environmental analysis prior to the bill and because of the actions you will have to take. Do you think that an environmental impact assessment is needed today based on the list of works submitted by Electrabel? You must have a strong and detailed position in this regard. This is important because the work that will be carried out will be carried out in accordance with section 12 of the IRPR, which has been extensively discussed in our discussions. I believe that the AFCN should no longer remain silent on this issue in order to try to ensure a clear legal position in this debate. In the slides you have explained, you indicate that priority actions and work must be undertaken before Doel 1 is reopened and Doel 2 is extended. Electrabel told us that she would stop Doel 2 for three months so that she would be active this winter and promote, I imagine, a series of work for the extension. Today, can you give us a timing of this work? How long should priority work last, i.e. those that must be done before Doel 1 is reopened and Doel 2 is extended? Can you tell us if Doel 1 and Doel 2 will be available this winter based on this priority work? You seemed to say you already knew them. I heard you at RTBF speak about the change in the government's philosophy of nuclear safety. Prior to the extension of Tihange 1, there was the SALTO mission because it is timely at some point, since the credibility of AFCN is being questioned today, so that international experts can validate the statements made by a national agency. I would point out that I am not questioning the Agency's know-how. So that's what we did for Tihange 1, but that's what we won't do, the government and Mr Jambon announced it and repeated it, for Doel 1 and Doel 2. I would like to hear your views on this, because it is a change of philosophy in nuclear safety in our country. Two checks are better than one. I will end with Doel 2 since you mentioned Doel 2 and Tihange 3. It seems to me that I heard in an interview that you could say in November. In your opinion, is this still a realistic timing? Mr President, I am done with my questions. I already thank Mr Bens for his answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic217x.u10	Mr Bens, in my turn I would like to thank you for this hearing. There was some consternation after the publication of the article. The hearing was scheduled a while ago, but for understandable reasons you can only be present now. I would also like to thank you for making this clear. There were different interpretations of that article, but you have now answered the three questions that arose about it, namely the corruption, the consequences of Fukushima and the legal questions. I am therefore pleased that we can conclude the incident. I kind of regret the tone that was set earlier. After your explanation, the pointing with an accusing finger is no longer necessary. With regard to Objectives 1 and 2, as you have shown in your slides, there is still a lot of work to be done, especially at Electrabel. What raises particular questions, beyond the complete technical aspect, which will be clearly followed up by the FANC and on which the FANC will have to give its approval, is the timeline. Last week or two weeks ago, we saw Elijah's plans to guarantee security of supply for the next winter. This includes keeping Objectives 1 and 2 open. Can you tell me more about that? Will they make the deadline? Will the priority actions have been implemented and will the FANC still have time to give its approval? I also have a question about the staff. In one of the previous hearings, you said that the staff needed for the operation of a nuclear power plant is completely different from the staff needed for the closure of a nuclear power plant. Do you have any idea if there has been a shift in staff? Could you explain that to me for a moment? As far as the EIA and the public consultation are concerned, you have not yet been able to make a decision. You are still waiting for the initiative and preparatory work of Electrabel, but if it is decided to create an EIA and hold a public consultation, will we go about the winter with the opening of Objectives 1 and 2? Or can this be included in Elijah's plan?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic217x.u11	Mr President, Mr Bens, thank you for being here today. I think it was absolutely necessary for you to come to Parliament and explain. When I think of some of your statements, such as windmills, which are more dangerous than nuclear power stations, only two deaths in Fukushima, the Bill on Objective 1 and Objective 2 are legal acrobatics, and in Electrabel there is nothing but pennies, then I think it is logical and interesting to enter into dialogue on this subject, beyond the limits of majority and opposition. Unlike my fellow Members, this is not a closed chapter for me. Mr Wilrycx can say that he regrets the tone that is being set. Well, the only tone that has been set is the one Mr Bens has put in his interviews and in his recent statements. That is the tone that has been set, and that is what gave rise to this hearing. I regret that, and my group regrets that, because we, as ecologists, are par excellence believers of a strong Federal Nuclear Control Agency. Because we stand here every week, every month on the barricade for your agency, so that you can do your job, so that people in the field can do their job, for the safety of our citizens and for the protection of our environment. If we then note such statements, there is, of course, doubt about the credibility of the agency. Then, of course, there is doubt as to whether you are still able to carry out that important function, especially today with the many dossiers on the agenda. You have not convinced me of this for the time being, Mr Bens. You can say that the journalist quoted you partially or that your communication was a bit unhappy, but that is not enough for me at this stage to say that this is what the Federal Nuclear Control Agency needs right now. Our safety and transparency standards are higher than a mini mea culpa. I will try to list the questions I have left to give you the opportunity to restore that credibility today. The sooner it's restored, the better for the agency. I will perhaps start with the important positive news that I have also noted and also want to give a place in my speech. That is the fact that you are actually calling for a revision of the existing legislation on operating licences for nuclear power plants. On the penultimate slide you make a suggestion which we accept with both hands, that in future, for Objectives 1 and 2, the action plan should be integrated into a new operating permit. That is indeed a good suggestion, and I would suggest that we do not stick to that suggestion, but also implement it. I have just consulted my dear colleague, Jean-Marc Nollet, and our group is ready to turn the proposal you are making here today into legislation and to ensure that the actions you are imposing on the extension of life are indeed included in the operating licences. That is much more stringent and much clearer about what needs to be done. I think that is a good suggestion, Mr Bens, and we will take a legislative initiative on this. I hope that you will not stick to a suggestion and a signal, but that you will also insist and play your part fully. That brings me to the question of the credibility of the operation. You haven't done that in the past ten years. In recent times, you have played with the credibility of the agency. I'll list them up for you. I am no longer talking about communication about legal acrobatics; that is a semantic discussion. What goes beyond semantics, however, is the fact that I actually did not hear from you, while your own services and advice indicated that there was a problem with the Objective 1 and 2 bill. A while ago, in February, I believe, you came here and you said that you still had to look at what was ultimately the legal framework in force. Is there a need for a public investigation, an environmental impact assessment? You said that you were going to look into it and that a recommendation had been ordered. That's what you said here. After that, we were given that advice. By the way, our group has put that advice on the table from the law firm Stibbe. It states in black and white that an amendment to the draft law is inevitable. That's Stibbe's conclusion that you were paid by the Federal Nuclear Control Agency. What happened in the meantime? There hasn't been a comma change to the bill. Why didn't you play your part there? Why did you not say to Mrs Marghem: stop, there are legal problems and the draft needs to be amended, because these are the opinions we have? Why didn't you play your part there? I don't understand that, because that would put your own agency at risk. After all, the Agency still has decisions to take; you have listed them yourself. In this way, the Agency is making itself very vulnerable and possibly the subject of legal proceedings. So you are putting the operation of your own agency at risk because, as I see it, you do not have the hair on your teeth, which you should, however, have as a nuclear watchdog, to tell Mrs Marghem that the opinion says in black and white that her bill is kaduuk and that she must amend it. You didn't do that. You've been playing with the credibility of the agency. That is my first point. Secondly, the way in which the lifetime extension of Objective 1 and Objective 2 is now taking place, and the role of the FANC in it, runs counter to the principles and guidelines that you have formulated. On several points, you will violate previous agreements and guidelines of the Federal Nuclear Control Agency. Of course, we wonder what it means if the FANC puts something on paper, if Mr Bens puts something on paper. I'm declaring myself. In fact, on three points, you contradict what you said earlier and what the Federal Nuclear Control Agency had said earlier. A first point is the level of safety of old plants versus the level of safety of new ones. In a message from the FANC of 15 October 2009, you say that old plants must comply with the latest safety regulations, as if a new plant were being built. In the meantime, however, we must take note of the fact that the old power stations are being restored, but that the criterion of a brand-new power station is no longer a criterion for the FANC, unless you can tell me otherwise today. For now, I have to make that determination. A second issue is when the adaptation works should be carried out. On 12 September 2014, the FANC stated that these adaptation works should be carried out for the actual lifetime extension. If that's what you want, I can literally quote that message here. These adaptation works will not take place today and will only take place after the lifetime extension. You are therefore violating your own rules and playing with the credibility of the Federal Nuclear Control Agency. Same thing about SALTO, the peer review by international experts. The FANC has always said that SALTO should take place before the lifetime extension. Today, however, SALTO happens after the lifetime extension. If you say that nuclear safety is your priority, while the Minister's price, security of supply and well-being and success are not your criteria, you would have maintained that SALTO should take place before the lifetime extension. For the time being, of which you have noted, you are also violating your own guidelines on this third point and you are playing with the credibility of your own agency and your employees. In short, first of all, you have done nothing with your legal advice. You let them pass and create legal uncertainty for the agency. Secondly, you are violating the safety regulations previously formulated by the Agency. A third point concerns Kazakhstan and the envelope. I am adding to Mrs Lalieux's question. When reading Le Soir the day after the famous interview, I understood that you and your services have read the interview. Is that right or not? Why is that an important question? Because in the interview you are very relativizing about corruption and expressing an image in which you say that if you want to do business in Kazakhstan, you have to work with envelopes. For someone with your position, I find that attitude towards corruption problematic. You can try to fix it afterwards, but evil is done. Moreover, Mr Bens, I think that this is also an opportunity to clarify this. Our group has been reading about Kazakhstan and Tractebel over the last few weeks. In 1996, 1997 and 1998 Tractebel not only paid for the broken legs of people. In 1996, 1997 and 1998, there was talk at Tractebel of 5 billion Belgian francs of bribes to the famous trio Chodiev, Ibragimov and Mashkevich, friends of the then Kazakh president, to facilitate the work of Tractebel. Chodiev has been mentioned several times in this House in other matters. What did you do in 1996, 1997 and 1998? At that time, you were not the number one member of the FANC or director of the Doel nuclear power plant. That was after. You were Almaty Power's number one and you were at the top of the list when it came to Tractebel's activities in Kazakhstan. All the way to the top. Were you aware of what happened afterwards? After all we have read and seen about it, it is logical that the question should be asked. Surely it is not possible that someone who played at that level in Tractebel Kazakhstan was not aware of such things? You only confirm or reinforce that question by saying yourself about Kazakhstan in Le Soir that it worked in such a way that if you want to do business in Kazakhstan, you have to work with envelopes. What was your relationship with the facts that have been established in the meantime? For example, what was your relationship with the then boss Aterinos, who managed for Tractebel the entire activity in Kazakhstan? I think you'd better be clear about that. What initiatives did you take at the time to develop Tractebel's activities in Kazakhstan in an ethical manner? I repeat, you weren't a little player back then. As number one of Almaty, you played the electric leg of Tractebel at the top of that story. Meanwhile, I consulted the press from that area and found an article from the Moscow Times from 1997 about Almaty's problems at the time. The start-up was very difficult there. The development of activities in Kazakhstan is apparently not evident. In certain cases, we read in the media, even military or armed figures were needed to make that possible. Are those or aren't those things you've been through from the front row? You yourself say in an article in the Moscow Times of 5 January 1997 about the difficult start in Kazakhstan, and I quote: "We had to learn how to do business in Kazakhstan said Bens. It's difficult now but I have faith that we can make this work. ........................................................................................ Was that about how to build high-voltage power lines in Kazakhstan, or was that about the fact that in Kazakhstan people always had to work with envelopes? Your statements at the time and your fairly recent statements on how Tractebel in Kazakhstan...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic217x.u12	Have you filed a complaint yet?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic217x.u13	Colleague Wollants is very quick because he is suggesting to file a complaint. I don't want to go that far. In any case, I would like to give you the opportunity to clearly position you in relation to these activities. If you had not played a leading role at the time, I would not, of course, bring this into the debate. I would not have brought that into the debate if you had not made statements about envelopes in Kazakhstan. However, it seems reasonable to me that I am asking these questions today because it concerns five billion old Belgian francs of corruption and bribes that were paid at the time at the head of the company, in which you played a prominent role. Fourthly, I was somewhat surprised by the FANC's response to the interview. I read that from now on, you will not be able to communicate with or even communicate with the press. The FANC does not need less communication, but more communication. The FANC does not have a problem of too much transparency, but of too little transparency. You must not communicate less, you must communicate better. A problem such as nuclear safety deserves to be addressed by someone who takes care of and informs its stakeholders, who recognises and acts on the social and political sensitivity of that dossier. Silence, Mr Bens, is not a good answer to that. What are the arrangements on this? Is that the line you're gonna draw? If that is the case, we will at least take initiatives, with interplays and resolutions, to do exactly the opposite and decide here in Parliament that the FANC should be opened up, rather than more closed. With regard to Objective 3 and Tihange 2, you make it very clear that no decision has yet been taken. I understand that you do not want to be put under pressure by the federal government, because that is already happening for Objective 1 and Objective 2. Mrs. Dierick, it is. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic217x.u14	Mr Calvo has the floor. Mr Bens will be able to respond later, and so will the committee members. Mr Calvo, please do not turn to the other members of the committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic217x.u15	Mr President, it seems that Mrs Dierick has a problem with my remarks. It's a matter of courtesy, so my mother learned, that if someone asks me a question, I try to answer it;
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic217x.u16	Then the discussions between Members will continue. I won't let you. You have the floor to address Mr Bens.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic217x.u17	I'm almost done. There is no need to worry about that. I know that the majority regards secrecy as very important and has a problem with a debate on all those aspects of nuclear policy. Mrs Dierick, no matter how many times you sigh, we remain very attached to this House and we will not give that up either. For the time being, although the President-in-Office has doubts about this freedom of speech, we will continue to work for it. I suggest that Mr Bens be put under pressure by the federal government. That's what I'm saying with what I just showed you. At present, the FANC does not respect the directives it has drawn up for itself, guidelines on SALTO, prior adaptation works and the level of safety of new plants. The government absolutely wants to extend the life span of Objective 1 and Objective 2 and places the FANC in an impossible calendar. That is why Mr Bens amends his own safety regulations. So I say without hesitation that Mr Bens is being put under pressure by this federal government. That's not good for nuclear safety. Mrs Dierick, I am not taking back a word of that. Mr Bens, you say that you do not want to be put under pressure on Objective 3 and Tihange 2, which I can understand somewhat. On the other hand, there has been uncertainty over 2 000 megawatts for almost three years now, which is very damaging to the functioning of our energy system, to the energy market and to security of supply. By what time can we expect an answer? That is not a strange question and I am not putting any pressure on it, but it is a question that arises more than ever. I'm gonna close with one last question. Is the file submitted by Electrabel a file for rebooting? Is the file on Target 3 and Tihange 2 all right, asking you for a green light? Or are there still some questions and challenges that need to be discussed with the FANC? I think it is important to know the basic position of the operator in this regard. After more than three years of uncertainty, that does not seem to me to be an unnecessary luxury. Mr President, those were my questions and suggestions, which I hope will restore the credibility of the FANC in the coming days and months. After all, we absolutely need a strong nuclear watchdog, and our group is the first to say and defend that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic217x.u18	Mr President, Mr Bens, thank you for your explanation and your presence in this committee. Admittedly, when I first read the article in Le Soir, I was also seriously shocked about the statements made in it. Those statements made the eyebrows a little frowning, or even a lot of frowning, because those statements also affected the integrity of the FANC. For us, it is very important that we can have confidence in the FANC and you are, of course, the leader of the FANC. Such statements, of course, do not help confidence. For us, it is very important that there is no doubt about integrity. This must be a high value pursued by the FANC. That is why we are pleased that you wanted to come here to explain this. It is very important to us that you have clearly emphasised once again that the integrity of the FANC is very important to you and that you have explicitly stated that you totally reject any form of corruption. We hope that we will be able to put this incident behind us. As far as we are concerned, we can put this behind us and we can focus on the content of the many files before us on nuclear safety. Thank you for the clarifications. Last but not least, I wish you all the best with your health. A lot of questions have been asked. I'm gonna try not to repeat myself. With regard to Objective 1 and Objective 2, you said that there should be clarity. The law is now finally passed. The first step has been taken in this respect, but there are, of course, many other steps that need to be taken. The timing is particularly important and I have a number of questions about that. An important step you mention, on which we have had a lot of discussions and which is very important for clarity, is the decision on whether to organise an EIA or a public consultation. In the slides is not really reflected when that decision would fall. Do you have any idea when that decision would be made and whether or not there will be an EIA or a public consultation? What timing are we talking about? Is this gonna take months? I also wonder whether organising an EIA or a public consultation will make it clear exactly what needs to be done. Is there going to be an E.R. or a public consultation? I think there are different forms of public consultation possible. Is this part of that decision right away? We can therefore take into account the timings because there are different forms that require different timing. I would like some clarification on that, too. The next step is the implementation of the Action Plan. You yourself rightly said that the greatest work will be to carry out all the actions. You also said that there are priority actions and non-priority actions. It is not immediately clear whether there is any clarity about what is priority and what is not. When will that be decided? If we decide what non-priority actions are, how much time will we have to carry out these non-priority actions? Is that a few months or a few years? How long can this be spread over time? Could you explain that for me? Finally, as far as Objective 3 and Tihange 2 are concerned, we have been asking ourselves to clarify this quickly. However, it is clear that the deadline is always moving. Nuclear safety is absolutely the most important and does not tolerate deadlines. So we understand that it is being thoroughly examined. There must be no doubt about that. You have stated that Electrabel must now file that safety case itself. That will happen soon. The question is, of course, how long will it be? The last time was scheduled for November. Is it still that timing we have to keep in mind, or is it even longer? I would also like to make that clear.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic217x.u19	Mr President, like my colleagues, I wish Mr Bens a speedy recovery and thank him for his presence today. Health is an important capital to protect. Mr Bens, in relation to your statements, I need a Director General of the AFCN and a serene and irreproachable agency in its operation and procedures. It must also be independent in its decisions vis-à-vis the government, which must be taken outside any context of pressure. Recent government statements do not reassure me. I regret your comments. In my view, they weaken the institution. I would have waited for more restraint on the part of number one of the AFCN. Mr. Bens, my goal is that the agency you are leading be independent in decision-making. I have a number of questions with regard to this dossier, particularly as regards the safety and legal security of the installation and also the safety and security of the installations. The Minister of the Interior confirmed that the SALTO study would not take place until the beginning of 2016. We are in a procedure where, as part of the extension of the duration of the operation of Tihange 1, the AFCN had requested the IAEA to organize a pre-SALTO mission. That will not be the case. In a number of documents issued by AFCN and Electrabel for a long time, the need for such monitoring prior to the extension of life is essential. For the CDH, it is essential that the IAEA be involved in this review and analysis. The IAEA is a recognized international authority. It performs this control before Doel 1 is restarted and Doel 2 is extended, not just AFCN. Mr Bens, what is your position on this? Will you integrate this mission into your timing and give your green light only after it? My problem is that of timing. It has already been mentioned in this committee, but is your timing, which appears without specific dates in your presentation slides, compatible with the government's ambitions? Return my question to the independence of the institution that you lead. How long do you really need to perform the analysis? This is an important question and I would have liked to hear from you about it. Secondly, at your hearing at the beginning of the year, you said, and it reappears on the slides here, that the actual restart will only be possible with three green lights: a legislative amendment, technical validation and administrative authorisation. Mr Bens, I have a few fears about this part of the law which you say was passed, and which was actually voted and published on 28 June. But I have the impression that the law does not dispel legal confusion with regard to assembly. It is not because the law is passed that the validation, the legislative amendment is ensured. Let us remember, and I did not speak these words, that the whole problem of "banking" legislation was raised, and in your words there were also the terms "legal acrobatics". Admit it's a little disturbing. In this timing and in legal certainty, I would have wanted to know whether, for you, December 2015, as it appears in the statements of each other, is a reality, a probability or a date that is not consistent. In relation to this situation, have you already, at the level of the AFCN, prepared a legal note concerning the process to be followed for the restart of Doel 1 and the extension of Doel 2? If so, could the parliamentary committee be given possession of this note? This seems interesting to me since there have been various qualifications of the law and the legal framework, to see how the AFCN is situated in this dimension and to be able to move forward in this way. I am also concerned about the problem of international conventions and Belgium's obligations in this regard. Let me return to a legal opinion that has been forwarded by AFCN to the Chamber and you state: "The view of the Council of State, according to which the individual authorizations for Doel 1 ended on 15 February 2015, must be followed. It appears that the aim is to avoid having to submit a new application for authorisation for the production of electricity to Doel 1 and the bill under consideration will not be enough... In the current circumstances, this provision does not therefore allow for new authorisations to be issued for Doel 1. In order to launch a completely new procedure for applying for authorisation for Doel 1, the above-mentioned provision will also have to be adapted." That is why we introduced Amendment No 16 in the debate, which would have made it possible to comply with both the Aarhus and Espoo Conventions, as well as the Habitat Directives and the Environmental Impact Assessments. How are you going to work with parts of the elements that appear to me to be inconsistent and not compatible with the legal reality, especially since the Council of State has been very critical of this text? Finally, has the legal framework of the law been completely clear or has it become obsolete? I would have liked to know your opinion on the matter. The Council of State has repeatedly ruled on the proposed bill, the amendments and the AFCN legal note that I would have liked to have had, as long as it exists. Mr Bens, I would like to return, in relation to the independence of the Agency, to the concept note of the Federal Nuclear Control Agency which circulated, note of 3 July 2012, on the definitive cessation and dismantling of nuclear facilities. This note does contain an outline of the different life stages of a nuclear facility and the associated authorizations. The scheme shows that the phases covered by the operating authorisation are the holding itself and the shutdown phase. Contrary to what has been stated on many occasions, the next phase is the dismantling phase, which is no longer covered by the operating authorisation, but by a dismantling authorisation. Everything is clearly indicated in this diagram. Does the FANC intend to follow this pattern? We find ourselves in such a situation that even Electrabel informed a whole series of people and interlocutors of Doel 1's judgment. Is the legal and hesitant bank law adopted by the majority sufficient in view of this situation? In conclusion, I would like to address the issue of the authorisation requested for Doel 1 and Doel 2. I mentioned the timing, the IAEA's opinion. But I would like information about the Agency's expertise. Is there not an overload of work to be carried out? Indeed, you must also solve the issue of Doel 3 and Tihange 2. What is your Agency's ability to manage all of these issues? Have you engaged in recruitment, have you used outside experts, subcontractors to carry out the expertise? Do you have plans for an additional budget so that things can be done in a clear and precise way? Mr Bens, I expect you to have clear and precise answers to my questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic217x.u20	Mr President, Mr Bens, many things have already been said, but it is important that each group can reposition itself, change the debate here and send you some messages. As some colleagues have said, I am glad to see you here and in good health. I also thank you for the introduction, for the language you have taken, for the words you have used and for the clarity you have given us. AFCN's mission is a vital, important mission. There is no word for its role in nuclear security. We must not mix the debate today. This is the line that the Agency adopts on a daily basis, and of course it is its mission. I should not recall that the AFCN is an independent agency. If some of my colleagues doubt that, you may be able to remind them. For my part, I have no doubt about that. Neither can we reduce the Agency to one person, to you. It's a set of engineers, workers, of whom you're the boss. However, we must also remember the context, realize that the Agency is recognized in the world for its work, and we must be proud of it. Mr Bens, I will not go back to your interview because you were clear from the outset. You put the beacons back here in committee. That was also the objective of this hearing. Like some of my colleagues, I want to go back to the priority work that comes back directly with the AFCN mission, security. Mr Bens, we've already heard from you a few months ago. Can you tell us more about the priority work before or after the extension of Doel 1 and Doel 2? We absolutely do not want AFCN to be under pressure. That's not the point. In any case, as AFCN is independent, it will refuse this pressure. She'll do her job right. In order to reframe the debate, I also think that the Minister of the Interior has made it clear in committee that he will follow the opinion of the AFCN. If that's yes, that would be yes. If it's no, it'd be no. If there were conditions, they would be met because safety is paramount and the objective is not to put pressure. Everyone must have a role. Our role in Parliament was to vote on this law. Electrabel's pension is being negotiated with the minister. Next, the AFCN will agree. These are three different and primordial things in the steps to be followed. So, pressure: definitely not. Your job is vital. It's clear that you can be asked if you have a timing. That's not why you're under pressure. You simply tell us: "Yes, there are things that have evolved since the hearings a few months ago. No, I don't have an agenda now." The question can be asked without pressure from the AFCN. I said it a few minutes ago, there were different stages, and you said it in your presentation. There has been a vote on the law, it has been done, and I hope that we do not re-debate here, that was not the objective. Your audition has been recalled in a certain context. You responded in your presentation. There is no need to repeat the debate. The AFCN has a safety competence. From a legal point of view, we are here in Parliament, we have our mission. However, you recalled in your presentation that the Court of First Instance had upheld our position. I think that we must stay there from a legal point of view and we must of course return to you. I also heard that we were talking about a lack of transparency. These are slogans that have been used for weeks. We can redo the history and reread all the debates. We've had transparency. The law was passed. We are now awaiting the green light of the AFCN, which will work independently. We talked a lot, Mr. Bens, in committee about an alternative to the connection. I wanted to know if you have anything to tell us about the last time we auditioned you. For Doel 3 and Tihange 2, I also thank you for taking stock of the situation. This reinforces our position as to the importance of extending Doel 1 and 2. We're still talking about an energy supply. We're in Belgium, we're in a modern Member State. We mustn't end up with a blackout. It is therefore necessary to ensure that supplies are made. I won't be much longer. I wanted to reframe some things. I welcome the various answers that you can give us, and I thank you for being here for the hearing and the clarifications that you can provide for the appeasement, transparency and clarity of the debates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic217x.u21	Mr. President, Mr. Bens, I'm glad you can be with us. It has now been a month and ten days since the interview was published. I have still not understood how a Director General of the Federal Nuclear Control Agency can make such a statement. Especially after you've been able to read them again. This is the most important element for me. The interview appears on June 1 and June 2nd, we learn that you were able to read it again. How, by rereading the portrait, can you find it very good? You do not realize the impact of your statements on the public. You're talking about two dead in Fukushima. You had done more before: "the wind turbines more dangerous than the nuclear power plants", "Doel 3 and Tihange 2 hundred percent safe", and then we have to shut them down! In view of the precedents you had experienced at the time, are you not telling yourself, when you read again, that you should contact the journalist? I said it, but it doesn't seem that way. This can happen in the warm-up of the interview. Your only excuse is to say it lasted two hours. You could have read it again. When you read it again, did you not think that you had gone too far, that you had to at least nuance? That passages should be deleted or clarified? Since the time that has elapsed since the interview, I still can't believe that a director of the Federal Nuclear Control Agency can make such statements! Your explanations of this point of view speak of three minutes quickly done and the two hours of interview. Obviously, a lot is said in two hours of interviews. It's a little short. I'm going back to a passage from the interview that doesn't appear on June 1st but the next day. The next day, there is the full story of the passage on corruption. You're saying it's a cash saving, already in the interview the day before. The reporter asks you if you can't tell everything. You say, "Yes, but we don't have time." Today, we have a little more time. On that day, you let the suspense go. You said you had two hours but you didn't have time! It would be interesting to know a little more. I will go into the issues discussed by colleagues. In 1996, you were the head of the Almaty Power Company in Kazakhstan. You arrive there first with the four power plants, but also in a context where Tractebel negotiates gas concessions, concessions about which we know all the problems, especially corruption, that they have caused. So I wish you could dig because you couldn't tell everything at the time of the interview. What have been your levels of information and association - these are two different things: information on the one hand, and association on the other - in the negotiation of these gas concessions? Since it is in the time when you are actually in place in Kazakhstan. Kristof Calvo has already asked you the question, so I will not develop, but what were your contacts, your relations with the "trio" including Chodiev, but also especially with Atherinos, since it was he who was a bit the bridgehead for the entire international? And he knew all the envelopes and everything else. But what part did you know and know about? This is for the interview. For the rest, it's so big – the two dead in Fukushima – it's not even useful to hear you in relation to that. Again, I'm not going to ask you any questions about that. Because I'd rather focus on the next one. Many have written it, many have said it here in this committee and outside, the credibility of your agency has been particularly affected by what you have said. It is now up to you – since a short majority of your board of directors has confirmed you in your position and a little at a time, you are trying to regain that confidence, but it will be played on each of the points you will have to address – to demonstrate very clearly your credibility with respect to positions that you have previously taken, with positions that the Agency has previously taken in statements, in public notes, and with regard to which, understand me well, there cannot be a discrepancy today, in particular in terms of the requirements that the Agency was able to formulate at the time. Throughout your audition - and I've been paying attention to that - the mission of the Federal Agency has remained on display. This is your only mission: the protection of the population, workers and the environment. Bar-point. All about security of supply, it's not your job. And you even said at the board meeting that, anyway, as far as you're concerned, you're not bound by time. You're not bound by any calendar. I've got Belga in front of me, which attests to it. This is obviously an important element, because at your level, you should not incorporate time constraints. If we agree on this, I do not see how you can accept a SALTO mission after Doel 1 and Doel 2 are relaunched. You're not bound by time. You must not be held accountable for security of supply. You learn, except for new elements, that the International Atomic Energy Agency can only come in early February 2016 to pre-SALTO and in January 2017 to execute the SALTO. Therefore, if you are not bound by the external calendar and the need for supply, you cannot change the line. Again, this is a question of credibility. The Agency has always defended the fact that these pre-SALTO and SALTO missions took place before the life extension, before the next LTO to be more technical. I guess today, you're not gonna change the line. We asked the minister about this, and rightly so, he told us that it wasn't his job. If the Agency says that the SALTO mission must take place before, it will take place before. This is essentially the minister's response. It is contained in the report on the work we have had in committee on the extension of Doel 1 and Doel 2. And he's right. It's your job. So that's the question I'm asking you. Mr Bens, in an attempt to restore some credibility, are you going to keep the course that these pre-SALTO and SALTO missions must take place before the Agency? And do not put yourself under pressure from any government timetable or any unexpressed will, because the government says it is up to the Director General to decide. I therefore ask you, Mr Bens, in a somewhat solemn manner, and I will do so three times, to confirm that you remain within the framework of what has been done for Tihange 1 and what you have always written about it, namely that these missions would be carried out before? In fact, the company Electrabel itself wrote in its 2012 LTO that this had to happen before. You have this in mind, I suppose, and you have certainly been surprised, like me, not to find this paragraph in the new version of the LTO, the one deposited in April and of which we were all able to get acquainted. Personally, I find that there is a problem that you, as an Agency, need to point out. In 2012, Electrabel said: we wish the mission SALTO. Obviously, it must take place before, it's texted in the report. In 2015, there is no longer that paragraph. When you read, Mr. Bens, the new LTO version of Electrabel, you said, "There's a problem, and I'm going to say it. I'll point it out. We need this analysis before." That's a question I'm asking you. Are you going, under duress, to reconsider your position or are you simply keeping the course and telling the government: "Well, for Doel 1, for Doel 2, it won't be until January 2017"? Because on SALTO, there is the question of the timetable, but I suppose you have read the parliamentary proceedings carefully. The minister also said it was a short-sighted mission in its scope and duration. It's a discount mission. Only a week. While we remember that the classic SALTO last several weeks. I guess you're not going today – I'm rereading your mission, protecting the population – straddle the very content of this mission. The minister said, in giving information from the International Agency: "It is only possible to do so in a limited spectrum". However, the Agency is not bound by the external timetable and constraints. It must therefore respect its desire to have a complete spectrum, a SALTO mission as it took place on Tihange 1. So both the calendar and the content of the mission. I now come to the question of the preliminary work, but always with the same logic, Mr Bens, to try to regain some credibility by not constantly changing your line according to elements that would come from outside. On the work that must be done before, you presented – at last, it is the slide that you did not present, that you jumped, but we received it as a copy. In the priority actions, therefore, the ones that must be carried out before you can extend the lifespan – it's slide 5, you jumped it in your visual presentation but not in your oral presentation – you list the actions that must take place before. And you list in particular the preconditions. That makes sense, and I'll join you on that. You have always said, and the Agency has always said that these preconditions must be achieved before. In the 2009 strategic note published by the Federal Agency, which is somewhat the framework within which life extensions are to be achieved, there is not only the preconditions, but also everything about aging. We agree on that, Mr. Bens. You're not going to change lines in relation to that? Everything about ageing must be done before the extension. I'm saying it before! It's not "started" before but "realized" before! And I'm quoting a 2009 Federal Agency note. You're not gonna change that! I'm asking you the question because I read Electrabel's new LTO last night and compared it with the old one. In the 2012 report, Electrabel said: "As requested by the Agency, all work related to ageing will take place before". In the new one, it's no longer possible! In Electrabel's new LTO, which is available on the website, work related to aging is now postponed after! I'll take page 22. It states that everything related to the concrete renovation of the buildings is planned for 2016-17. It's all on page 22. There are even elements related to aging. It's not about mechanical ageing, it's about the aging of buildings. This is postponed to 2017-2018. That's not right! We agree on that! We remain well within the framework of what the Agency has always said, namely that there are preconditions but also everything related to aging will have to be done before the extension. I want to hear you very clearly on this part. Also in connection with the work to be carried out, the 2014 note published by the Agency states that priority changes must be made before. She also said that the other changes were to be made within three years. These are the terms of the Federal Agency's release. We therefore agree that when Electrabel, in his new document, asks for five years for certain works, it is "thinking"! If you are consistent and you remain credible with your September 12, 2014 press release, it's a maximum of three years! You're not going to change the line because there's any pressure or supply problem. Do we agree on that? I would like you to take advantage of your presence here to reassure us on this issue. It is now or never that you must reassure us because there will be no more interviews. Three years, not three years plus two if we wish. What you wrote in 2014 is "three years". Last item in relation to the work, I would like to check with you that, for the Agency, it is of course not acceptable, nor was it yesterday, that an operator is working with parts that are no longer insured. Insurance ran until that date; there was no question that an operator could operate nuclear power plants without being insured for some of the parts because the insurance expired at that time. As far as the level of requirement is concerned, there are two theories. Firstly, the one you developed in 2009: "this is the highest degree, not only in relation to the most recent Belgian power plants, but in general in relation to all PWR plants". The other theory seems to say, when reading the Electrabel document, that what is being sought is not the highest degree, as the Agency wanted in 2009, but it is the maintenance of the minimum level of security that existed in 1975. Wait, where are we? At the end of the 1960s, technology was born. Mr Bens, are you going to reassure us here and unambiguously: is it your 2009 strategic note that remains valid? I quote it word for word: "the highest degree, not only in relation to the most recent Belgian units but in general in relation to the most recent PWR plants?" I hope you can clearly reassure us on this part... SALTO, I mentioned, as well as the level of requirement, the preliminary work and the three related issues. I now turn to the issue of authorisation and environmental impact assessment. Here too, the government is very clear, it sends you back the hot potato. He says, "at the limit, we didn't take a position on that." The government says, "It's not up to us to judge if we need prior public consultation, it's up to the federal agency." It's good, you're here. We're going to ask you the question formally. And the advantage is that you've already done the legal study. We first broadcast it, and then you officially passed it on to Parliament. The conclusion of this legal study was very clear: if the text tabled by the government was not amended, a new authorization was needed. And so, there was a need for a public investigation. Today, you know that this text has not been amended. You said it yourself, it appeared in the Monitor, so it is applicable. I assume that this legal study, which you have commissioned yourself, remains the only valid one, that you have not imagined doing a second legal study. I'd like to ask you the question because with the minister, we've been a little used to it. That is why I would prefer to see you: there is no second legal study to contradict the first in this respect. I want to have all the guarantees on that part. The conclusion of the legal study is therefore to say that a new authorisation is required. The Council of State confirms this on three occasions. So there's something I don't understand in your most recent press release, the one on Doel 1 and Doel 2, which came out on July 4th; I suppose you know him well. You say: "The Federal Agency will decide whether certain actions proposed by the operator should be subject to an authorisation procedure." But that's not fair! Your legal analysis – and the Council of State makes it clear – says that this is the whole process, and not just some actions. I can see how you are building a little at a time the solution that the government would adopt. But it's not your job, it's not your mission! You say you're going to do investigations, public consultations, but later, in 2017, when we're putting concrete back on or in 2018, when we check the windows. That's not it! Since there is no more authorization – that's what your legal study says – the public investigation is now, and not action by action, as you say in your statement! I already feel an inflection on that! Legally, it doesn't hold the road! I assume you've read the various opinions of the Council of State. I assume that you have also read the opinion of the Council of State on the amendments, in particular the amendment which was intended to say that for Doel 2 and for four months, one could perhaps dispense with a public inquiry, just for four months. The Council of State says, "No, that's not possible." My question, therefore, is how you reconcile your statement of 4 July with the opinion of the Council of State on Amendment 18 concerning Doel 2. Legally, how do you reconcile these two pieces? I don't care if I have your answer here. I'm done for Doel 1 and Doel 2. I now come to Doel 3 and Tihange 2. In the famous interview in the newspaper Le Soir, you say that for Doel 3 and Tihange 2, it would be for November. I see you're dubious, but I can take the clip from the newspaper where you're talking about it. I quote: "Electrabel speaks of a potential revival in November, with the agreement of the Agency". I mean it! And you say, "For the first time, it seems realistic." Today is July. Does this November deadline, for you, remain realistic? That is my first question. My second question concerns the work of international experts. Every day, I will check your website to see what's new. Since the end of April, the date of the meeting of international experts, I will see if the report is available as they were to submit a report in the wake of this meeting. There's still nothing. Maybe this report came to you but you haven't put it on the site yet. So when did the international experts submit the report to you? It seems strange to me that it is still not accessible and it would seem to me even more strange than you have not yet received it when the meeting took place at the end of April. There is a minimum of explanation to be given in this regard. Mr President, I am done with the twelve specific questions I asked Mr Bens. I'm waiting for his answers. If you wish, I can send you the document with my questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic217x.u22	I would first like to thank the interveners, especially those who have expressed their confidence in the FANC as an agency. I think my 150 colleagues will also be very pleased with that attitude. I'm going over the different questions. Mr Wollants' question on the division between priority and non-priority matters is easy to answer. This division is described in the Electrabel Action Plan, for which we gave our agreement in principle. The answer to Mr Wollants' question on the process of the EIA and the EIA consultations also immediately answers questions from other interveners. In fact, this should be seen in the wider context of the whole legal structure. I shall go into that first, because that comes back to almost everyone. When all these different opinions were given and the discussions were under way in Parliament and the committees on the law which was then adopted on 18 June, one of you said: "Les avis sont peu cohérents." That is indeed the case. There were a lot of different advices that were meant to make a law. Finally, at the previous hearing in the Committee on Business, I was asked to give an opinion on that law. Actually, that's where I went beyond my jurisdiction. It is Parliament's job to make laws and it is the administration's job to apply them. I should have had the reflex at that point to say: sorry, but it's your job to make laws, we'll apply them. What has not yet been discussed here is the judgment of the Brussels Court of First Instance, which, for me, has legal force and is enforceable. It says very clearly that the operating licence is always running. This operating licence has been valid since 1974 or 1975 and continues to run. A clear distinction is made between the operation of installations and the industrial production of electricity. That's suspended. But that has nothing to do with the operating permit, the nuclear licence. I think the court's ruling is far more binding than an opinion from Stibbe's office. The Council of State's opinions were addressed to Parliament to make the laws. The court's ruling is directed at us, and it's binding on me. Now I come to the EIA procedure. What is registered in Belgian legislation? As an official, we still have to follow Belgian legislation fully, because if we do not, we certainly have problems. Now, Belgian legislation provides that in the event of changes to the installations, the Agency will assess whether those changes are important and whether an EIA report and an international consultation is necessary. To this end, the Agency shall use criteria set out in the international conventions. For specialists, this is Annex 3 to the Aarhus Convention, if I am not mistaken. That's what we're doing. If there are any requests for changes, which we are now expecting fairly quickly, then we will decide on the whole package. Mr Wollants asked if we were looking at any action. No, for the full package of changes included in the integrated action plan, we are looking at whether an EIA and a public survey are necessary. It would be awesome to have five public interviews in a two-year period, because then we won't get any proper advice. A lot of questions were asked about the timing. With regard to Objective 1 and Objective 2, very much depends on the implementation of the actions, because that is the critical issue in that timing, and it also depends on the efforts that the operator can make, mainly with the question of whether there is sufficient staff available. Electrabel is busy putting more people on it. I understand that some 70 full-time equivalent technicians are now working on it, and there is still a strong recruitment for Goal to strengthen the shifts, to get that work moving. Warranties about when we land with them, I can't give them. I understand that it is the intention to conclude the priority actions this year, but that is an indication to give you a feeling; I will not commit to it. Same for Objective 3 and Tihange 2, for which timing has also been requested several times. Indeed, I said in May that November seemed realistic to me. Meanwhile, we still haven't gotten the safety case, the evaluation report, from Electrabel, so there might be a little slip on it. For the evaluation of the FANC, with the external opinions that we will be asking for, you can count on a few more months. I estimate this, but it's not a commitment. Let me say I'll be relieved if I can celebrate New Year with a decision in all those files. I suspect that the demand for alternatives and the change in the high-voltage lines was about Mr Woitrin's solution. We finally got that description and analysed it. What it proposes is not in itself contrary to the requirements for safe operation, in particular the technical specifications for operation. That could fall in there. However, if this is applied, a level of safety will be removed. There is then an external power supply less. This exercise reduces nuclear safety at that time. That is not a good thing in itself, but is still within the strict regulatory requirements of their licence. Despite the fact that this is actually outside our competence, we have also drawn attention to the situation in which there is an incident on the 150 kilovolt line. If the problem is not recovered within three days, the entire Goal site must be stopped, according to the requirements of the permits. This applies to Objective 3, if it is already running, but certainly also to Objective 4. There are therefore a number of risks associated with this solution. The safety level is reduced and there is a risk for the overall security of the entire Goal site. I come to Mrs Lalieux's question: "Why did you do this interview?" Very good question. I've been asking myself, too. If I'd known... it's always a dilemma between transparency and saying no. We get a lot of interview requests. In most cases, I say no. But, if I always say no, I'm going to be blamed for not being transparent and not communicating. So, from time to time, you still have to agree to an interview. The scope of the interview was "doing your background", that is, more the career, the life of the person than the files. But then, how is that possible? In your question, you have, in my opinion, even provided an element of answer. You used the word "pedagogic." I think that's the big mistake I made. I have spoken openly about situations but I have forgotten the pedagogical aspect when it appears in print in an article, which I have not been able to read in its entirety. The journalist sent us, on a Sunday evening, some elements, some excerpts that we could read again but not the entire article. I think he gave us a quarter of an hour or half an hour to answer. So it's not really an intense rereading that I was able to do. So, why this interview? This is a bit of a decision between transparency, openness and protection. To regain confidence, people said, "You're going to cut off all communication." That's not the case. What I said at the beginning of June was that I was not going to communicate on this subject, on this interview. I said that I want to close this, restore serenity within the Agency and focus on the important work that needs to be done. I know I have to respond to my board of directors, which has been done. I have to answer to Parliament, which is happening today. I think these are the two instances I have to answer. So I will no longer comment on this whole story, either to the press or elsewhere. Nevertheless, for the other dossiers, whether those we are talking about today or in other areas, the Agency's transparency policy is of course still the same. As far as the law is concerned, as I have already explained, it is the separation of duties. It's up to Parliament to make the laws. It's up to us to implement it. As far as the SALTO mission is concerned, it has always been said that it needs one. The discussion now seems to be about the date. We must first see what the role of the Vienna International Agency and a SALTO mission is. The Vienna Agency is an international organization that provides support and support, by way of establishing guidance. These are not even directives because they are not binding. These are guidelines, opinions. It also provides services such as peer reviews. SALTO is a peer review, a peer review. It is therefore people from other bodies, other power stations, who are visiting. This is done in power stations, such as the OSART missions we had in Belgium a few years ago. There's a regulator review mission, IRRS mission we had in 2013, I think. There is also the IPPAS mission that focused on the physical protection of the facilities. En outre, il y a la mission Safety Aspects of Long Term Operation (SALTO). It is a peer review of the country's and power plants' approach to doing the long-term operation that only concerns the management of aging. That's SALTO's goal. SALTO does not look at upgrades, thus improvements in plant safety. This is not what the SALTO mission serves. It is certainly not a green light from the Vienna Agency to do anything. These are opinions on which points the practices used in one country are exemplary and could serve as examples for other countries, and on which points should be put one more step, one more effort. This focuses on the management of aging. We had this mission in Tihange earlier this year. Since Electrabel is the same operator for Tihange and Doel, these aging management systems, this system are identical. The lessons learned from the SALTO mission can also be applied to Doel. In the past, the question has even been raised as to whether it is worth doing two separate missions. It's the same operator on two power plants, but we still decided to do it. So we said, "as soon as possible you do," but it's not binding on us. This is not a priority action that is blocking for start-up. As far as the timeline is concerned, what I can say is that we hope to need a few more months in the two dossiers. For Electrabel, the staff is indeed an important point in which it does a lot of work. This also applies to the Agency. Someone has asked whether the Agency can handle it. There is indeed a peak of work. We are dealing with this mainly by using international consultants for other matters. I can reassure you that, as far as the budget is concerned, we classify this as extraordinary performance. They will be passed on to the operator and will therefore not tax the state budget. Should we take advantage of this to recruit additional people, I fear that we would have budgetary problems with the board of directors. Someone asked about the impact of the E.R. on timing. As I said, the Mershals are not in favour of the principle of continuing to operate for the changes to the installations. What energy policy do we want in Belgium? There have been planned MERs carried out by the Energy Administration in the past. That's what they're for. The MERs currently under discussion and the public survey for the main purpose of Euratom, Article 37, deal with the changes to the installations. These must have been carried out before the changes take place, that is the axis of time at which the environmental impact reporting and the public survey must be carried out. These must be done before we allow those changes to be made, not before the start-up. Integrating the action plan into the regulatory framework was a suggestion made by Mr Calvo.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic217x.u23	That was your suggestion.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic217x.u24	Yes, but it was your suggestion to integrate it into the legislation. Thank you for that, but I believe that the current legislation already gives us sufficient resources to do so. We can, through Article 13, impose a tightening of the permit conditions for those who know the ARBIS well. That is what we intend to do here. That's a scoop, all right. We have not done so in the previous ten-yearly reviews, and we have not done so in the stress tests either. We will certainly consider making greater use of this possibility in the future, and putting the action plans of the various operators, not only of Electrabel but also of the other nuclear installations, more into the licence itself, so that it would have a much stronger legal force.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic217x.u25	Could you perhaps outline the origins of that idea? Is there any reason in past cases where that power was not sufficient?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic217x.u26	No, so far we haven't had much to complain about. It seems to us to be purer, clearer, to make this really binding in the regulatory texts. That gives us more opportunities to have it carried out. It's not that there have been really big problems. You should see, the follow-up reports of the stress tests that we publish every year show good progress in this respect. It is simply clearer if it is done by adjusting the licence than by means of a private agreement. Security level, requested by LTO. Priority actions aim to ensure that exploitation can continue in safe conditions. That is the essence that needs to be demonstrated at any time, so also before the start starts. The upgrades, the adjustments and the improvements - that is what we are aiming for, and that is what is even stated in the regulations, I think, to maintain at least the original level, or the level of the previous 10-year review, was added in Belgium that we are also aiming for the same level of safety as the four most recent plants, namely Objectives 3 and 4 and Tihange 2 and 3. That's put there as a standard. We are looking at what is evolving in terms of global security. We are trying to follow developments as a directive. As far as possible, this will be taken into account, but it is not always possible to do so fully. Some questions about Tractebelgate, as it was called, and my role there. It is true that I went there as operational director of that installation, with the role of ensuring that the city of Almaty had electricity, district heating and that people paid their invoices, three things that weren't really quite right in advance. I was the head of that organization there, but I was purely operational to do those things. I told that journalist that I could tell him for hours about the anecdotes we had there, to get people to pay their bills, by the way, I'll tell you one more soon. One day, Almaty's parliament was closed because they hadn't paid their bills. The minister always said: 'The Kazakhs must learn to pay their bills!' All right, we'll lock down anyone who doesn't. As a matter of fact, the parliament was there. One night, someone from parliament came to my office with a bookbag full of cash: "Here, we pay our bill." That's the kind of environment that had to be worked in. If you ordered coal at the coal mine, at the power station, you'd have the train come, the train left with 20 wagons and arrived with 15 wagons. Dat is het soort zaken how to learn to do business. That's the kind of thing you have to do. We had to send armed people on those trains to make sure the wagons weren't stolen and the route route was stolen. There's a lot of business like that. The files to which you refer and which are still legal, I do not know whether they have already been concluded, were mainly related to the gas contract. There was Almaty Energo that later became APK, being the electricity and district heating company. Tractebel was also offering on the gas transit through Kazakhstan. In the context of that dossier, there were a lot of things that I read in the press. I had nothing to do with that. Even the way Tractebel got the contract for the electricity was before I got there. My assignment was purely operational. I've heard the names of the people you mention, but I've never met them. I have no idea what their impact was. Am I being pressured by the government? That is where my answer can be very clear: no, not by this government, nor by the previous one. They tell me exactly what they say to the public. The FANC will decide and you will have the final say. Targets 1 and 2 and Electrabel's file with a view to restarting soon. I think that's where they're working on the final pieces. That should come in this month, I hope, but again, it is Electrabel who is master of timing there, not us. Mrs Dierick, you are also asking for the timing of the EIA for Objectives 1 and 2. - When do you decide? Once we have the detailed list of actions in which Electrabel will describe exactly what they are doing. Now they will say that there must be additional functionality there, because that is what is now in the action plan. If we are going to give the judgment, we want to see: how that will be done correctly: is that with one pump or two pumps, where are the valves, how about that? If we have those files, we can judge whether those are changes that make an EIA necessary. Again, without commitment but realistically speaking, I think that we will look at this in the autumn. Action plan, priority or non-priority? Yeah, that's for sure. Priority is all that guarantees that one can go crazy safely. Timing for the non-priority? For this we have actually achieved the timing of the classic ten-year review, which says 'within three years after the time' and in exceptional cases five years after the date'. That's what it always says in brackets. We used to say that in the past. Where it goes... Whatever you have, if you have two safety systems that do the same function, for example two pumps that do the same, you never want to make changes to those two pumps at the same time. Suppose you're changing something about one pump and for some reason you're wrong, it's not good if that pump doesn't work anymore, then you'll be very happy that you didn't change that second pump either. In the field of safety, this is usually broken down and left aside for some time, usually a year. A series of changes are likely to be made within three years and one at the next stop, the year after. For Objectives 3 and 4, we await the safety case of Electrabel, which, as far as I understand, gives the arguments why Electrabel believes they can safely restart. That's where they're working on the final pieces. That shouldn't take too long before it comes in. Monsieur de Lamotte, the salto, not pre-salto... What we do in January/February is an expert mission, but it has all the characteristics of a pre-salto. The full mission will take place in early 2018 because we still have to bring people together. The start-up process has indeed been observed in a legal way. We presented a legal note to our board of directors last Friday. These are the slides I showed you. Our Friday press release is a common language synthesis of this existing legal note. If you want, I can...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic217x.u27	If there's a way to distribute it now, I'll do it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic217x.u28	Is there a new legal note?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic217x.u29	There is a legal note that analyses the current situation, which has been presented to our council, which is the basis for the timing of the steps that I have shown you today.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic217x.u30	Mr. Bens, do you have it with you? Can we eventually distribute it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic217x.u31	No, I don't have it with me.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic217x.u32	Could you ask the Agency to forward it to the Commission?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic217x.u33	Through the secretariat of the committee, I have no problem transmitting it to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic217x.u34	Is it a legal note that explains the procedure to be followed for reopening and the state of the LTO situation?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic217x.u35	Yes, that's it, it presents the six or seven steps that I explained to you here, with the reasons behind.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic217x.u36	And it contradicts the old legal note?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic217x.u37	The old legal note had another purpose.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic217x.u38	The conclusion was clear. It had a different purpose, but the conclusion was that there was a need for a new authorization.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic217x.u39	The former note referred to the establishment of the Act of 28 June.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic217x.u40	Yes, but it has not changed since there is no amendment. So the old note, with the same text, said: we need a new authorisation. The text has not changed, but you have a new legal note which now says that no authorisation is required.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic217x.u41	The new legal note describes what process to follow in the context, one with the judgment of the court of first instance which says that no new authorization is necessary because the old one is still valid - which is an argument, apparently, that was not available when you established the law - and takes into account the current state of the law and we apply it...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic217x.u42	Mr Bens, can your services now transfer it via the Internet to the Commission's services? Because if, indeed, there is a legal note that has been tabled as part of the analysis of the project, it concludes a number of elements – they have been made available to the committee and Parliament. And now you're explaining to me that the board of directors has read or received a legal note. I hope she doesn't contradict the previous one. I imagine that we will be able to analyse it in detail to see the process to be followed for the analysis of reopening and prolongation and also for the salto or pre-salto notes where safety is involved. So that's what it's all about. I want to see if there is contradiction or no contradiction and see what the state of these notes is.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic217x.u43	Mr Bens, you will understand that this raises some additional questions. You have here a note - that note has been deposited, at first coincidentally, then formally paid and said there is a problem with the Bill Objective 1 and Objective 2. Today you say that there will be a new note to see how we proceed. I think that you are going very quickly and that you are trying to shift your responsibilities from you in that first phase. You say you're out of line when you say that. I clearly disagree with that, because it is only logical that you, as Director-General of the Federal Nuclear Control Agency, should be particularly vigilant when it comes to legislation on nuclear licences, all the more so because your own agency is targeted at failing to comply with that legislation. I'll take my questions again. Then why didn't you do something after Stibbe's advice? Did you ask the government to amend that bill in order to operate your own agency, or did you just leave it blue-blue? What did you do with that note from Stibbe that you paid and ordered?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic217x.u44	Mr President, I would like to refocus the debate. Mr Bens, we are here to discuss nuclear safety.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic217x.u45	It's nuclear safety, not security. And the note...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic217x.u46	Let me continue my speech, Mr de Lamotte! I see no problem in having documents sent to the committee. We have always worked in transparency. On the other hand, it is not a question of re-discussing the current bill. The latter was voted on. Negotiations on the rent are under way with Electrabel. Finally, we are talking about the agreement or not of the AFCN regarding the extension. These are three different aspects. I therefore urge you not to once again cast doubt on certain elements. That's enough!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic217x.u47	Ms. Cassart, in view of the slides presented by the Agency, she incorporates the fact that she will have to position herself on whether or not a public consultation is necessary. I know that this question bothers you because it could lead to the non-opening of Doel 1 and Doel 2, this winter.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic217x.u48	[[outside miro]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic217x.u49	Mrs Cassart, the opposition may disturb you, particularly because of the many questions it raises. But you cannot say that what we are talking about is irrelevant when one of the Agency's tasks today is to tell us whether or not a public consultation is necessary. Mr President, I have a problem with something. In fact, an initial legal opinion was requested by the Federal Agency from an external firm that advised it that the legislation needed to be amended, and that, if it did not change, a new authorization and public consultation would be required. This opinion was not appropriate for the government and, in particular, for Mrs Marghem. And today, we learn that the Agency has asked for a new opinion, the conclusion of which is, as if by chance, different. It's still amazing! I thought we'd been through everything with Minister Marghem, but we're seeing that the Agency's methods are also distasteful. Then they'll come and talk to us about credibility! Frankly, Mr Bens, the first opinion was clear! I have the conclusion in front of me: we need a new authorisation! It is written black and white on paper and now you say that it is no longer necessary and that it can be seen later on a case-by-case basis!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic217x.u50	[[Without microphone]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic217x.u51	Did you read the court's decision, Ms. Cassart? He's talking about exploitation! What we've never denied. We never said there was a problem with operating authorization. What we have been noting since the beginning is a problem with the authorization for the production of electricity. What do you say about this part?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic217x.u52	Personally, I'm not used to yelling in the debates, whether the cameras are present or not, to try to get clear answers. Mr. Bens, the law has been passed. Following the questions put to the committee, an opinion was sought by the AFCN from a law firm. The opinion stated that there was a need for a new authorisation and therefore for an environmental impact assessment and public consultation. This opinion has been added to other opinions, in particular that of the Council of State. We have always supported this. But today the law is passed and you say that it is not up to you to challenge a law. If there are remedies, the courts will rule on this issue. As we have told you during the debates, the AFCN will also be in court depending on the decision you are going to make, since you will have to decide, according to the Royal Order of July 20, 2001, whether or not, depending on the work requested, an impact assessment and public consultation is required. I imagine that what was tabled on the board of directors concerns this second part. It's an important play, Mr. President. I understand that the documents are confidential, but if Mr Bens agrees to give them to us, it is important to have them! What's important, Mr. Bens, is to say something at some point. You know since March that there is a will to extend Doel 1 and Doel 2. You tell us – it is in your slides – that you have the list of priority work. Therefore, I do not understand why, today, you cannot tell us: "Yes (or no), we need an impact study." What I want is legal certainty. We told the minister. She doesn't want it, too bad; neither does the majority. But at some point, we need legal certainty in relation to security of supply tomorrow, to the credibility of the AFCN. We know how much she's being called into question today. This legal certainty, you still can't confirm it to us because you still don't have a decision; it's a bit special! On the other hand, I do not agree with your reading of the judgment. The judgment is there, it has been pronounced. He did not comment at all on impact and impact studies. He did not say anything about the European and Aarhus directives you mentioned earlier. Let us not hide behind a judgment which today does not give an answer to legal certainty. Of course, I would have liked to have had this legal study and a clear answer from AFCN: "I know where I am going, I know how, and safely." As has been argued in relation to the law, an environmental impact survey and public popular consultation would seem to us to be entirely self-evident in the face of a reopening and extension. This, in fact, without having to scream or scream, the difficulty for Parliament today is the fact that we do not yet have a clear response from the AFCN. We didn't have one in March on the bill. That is what I wanted to add to the debate, without getting upset, Mr President.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic217x.u53	Mr President, a word about the judgment of the Court of First Instance. Indeed, he did not say anything about international conventions in the judgement. We are only being referred to this court of first instance. The rest must follow. It is therefore a question of seeing what is being done about international conventions and guidelines. I would remind you, however, of the opinion of the Council of State on the amendments, an opinion of 11 June 2015, which makes it very clear that there is a need for a new environmental impact assessment. Look at what the Council of State's opinion says on Amendment No 16. It's text in the document. Mr Bens, I am therefore a little surprised by the answers that are yours and I look forward with great interest to the legal note that was produced by the AFCN services, so that I can compare it with the first note and see what is happening. I would really like to insist that this document be available.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic217x.u54	Mr Bens, in order to distinguish the two dimensions that I consider to be important. Firstly, my question is what you have done in the past. You haven't answered that yet. What did you do at the time following Stibbe's advice that called for an amendment to the draft law? If you didn't do anything about it, I think you didn't play your role as Director General of the Federal Nuclear Control Agency. After all, you are not the head of the cabinet of Minister Marghem who is responsible for ensuring that it is rushed through Parliament as quickly as possible. No, you are responsible for the FANC and you must do everything you can to ensure that the FANC is fully covered against future procedures. If you didn't intervene then you actually helped pave the way for the next lawyer invoices you will have to pay with the Federal Nuclear Control Agency. That is the first dimension and I expect a clear answer. The second dimension is what is going to happen after the vote on the draft law. I'm also surprised to hear you say that's still under review. You say that there is an action plan and that you know what needs to be done. You approved that methodology. You say that, if there is a public investigation, you will not do so point by point, but you will do so in general. You just said that. So you have a perfect view of what should be presented in the context of public research and an environmental impact assessment. You should be able to tell us today whether or not there will be a public investigation or an environmental impact assessment. The sooner it becomes clear, the better, with a view to all of us, with a view to your functioning, with a view to security of supply. Those are two different things, and I hope you will want to answer them in the second term.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic217x.u55	So those were some questions for clarity about the further procedure and the question of making the legal note available.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic217x.u56	I'll have the legal note delivered this afternoon. I actually agree with a lot of comments that are being made here. Mr. Nollet said, "There is no need for a new operating authorisation, it is production." The production authorization is not me. So I'm not judging. What the court also said was that the operating authorization continued. I have never referred to the second part of the judgment in which the court declared itself incompetent for legal reasons on the history of the MERs and international consultations. Two different things must be distinguished in time: before the law is approved and after. That's where there's a lot of confusion. Before the law was approved, everyone could give their opinion. The Council of State had to give its opinion. Other people have given their opinion. The Agency also gave its opinion and submitted it to Parliament to take it into account. Did I put pressure on my appropriate minister? No. I don't like my minister putting pressure on me and I don't put pressure on him either. I have given him the opinion and it is up to him and Parliament to take it into account or not.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic217x.u57	You did not call for an amendment to the draft law, although there is an opinion on the table that says in writing that this is necessary?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic217x.u58	I passed on that advice, but it is not my role as an agency to intervene in the legislative process.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic217x.u59	Of course I do. In the end, it is the government and Parliament that decide, but you should not, as a notary, put that opinion on the table of the Minister. You must act in the interests of the Federal Nuclear Control Agency. For me, legal certainty is important. Then why are you ordering that advice?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic217x.u60	We have submitted it and it is up to the Minister to take it into account. I fully agree with Ms. Lalieux when she says that we don't like to be in court. That is what we want to avoid. It is for this reason that, in deciding whether to make an SEA, a public or an international consultation, we follow the existing procedures. We are now in the second phase. The law has been approved, published and is in force. Now we have to look at the current situation, whether we love it or not! We have to enforce the law. We must therefore apply the entire framework of the existing regulation. That's the purpose of the second note. It is not a second note that interprets and provides the way forward. The note I proposed to Council on Friday says, as it stands, with the law of 28 June in force, the ARBIS/RPRI regulation as it stands. How can we proceed now? That's the legal analysis we're talking about. It must not be said that it is contradictory to the old one. It starts from the current situation. She's what she is. We'll follow, and that's what I explained in my slides. There won't be much surprise. It was also published in the press release of Friday evening, in full transparency, on the site. We'll follow the procedure. The Agency cannot tell an operator to conduct an environmental investigation at any time. Existing procedures must be followed. This environmental investigation, this public consultation will be carried out as part of an application for modification of the facilities to be submitted by the operator, as soon as the operator has submitted this detailed formal request. This is the difference between the approval given on the broad lines of principle. In order to decide, we need to have a detailed record. That is what they are preparing, as I told Mrs Dierick. Once we have this, they will introduce their request for amendment. At that time, according to the regulations, the current ARBIS (section 12) will decide on the various stages. It is then that we can say whether or not we need an environmental investigation, a public consultation and whether it should be cross-border. If I made a statement on this right now, it would be a procedural violation, and I would be before the Council of State to explain it to me. And I don't want to. I think I have dealt with most of the points.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic217x.u61	I understand that the legal note will be delivered to the committee secretariat this afternoon. We will then deliver these to the members. Is anyone else asking for the floor?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic217x.u62	There are a series of questions, I think, that you haven't answered. It is in relation to the documents which are no longer insured, compared to the three years compared to the five years, in relation to the report of the Committee of Experts. Why is this report of a meeting that took place in April still not submitted? Mr President, either Mr Bens can answer that, and then I will reply, or do you want me to make the reply at the same time on the rest? It's better if he answers first, I think.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic217x.u63	It's not bad will. The things you're asking me, I don't see very well. You're talking about insurance. I don't understand your question very well. Is this third-party liability insurance or all-risk "machine bristles" insurance?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic217x.u64	It's both of them. From the moment that coins are guaranteed for forty years - which is the case -, if Electrabel continues without having obtained new assurances in the meantime, there is a problem and therefore my question is whether the Agency would cover this or whether it was a problem for her too?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic217x.u65	It must be guaranteed that all equipment in place works in both normal and accidental operation. And if it's covered by insurance, it's not our concern. We need to have the guarantee that it works and that it continues to work, that Electrabel will do the necessary maintenance to do it and the records to show us that it's reliable. With regard to the Committee of International Experts, it had met at the end of April, but their consultations had not been completed, and they continued by telephone and electronic means. We do not yet have the final report, but it should be soon. Their work therefore did not end with the meeting held here in Brussels; they continued to exchange ideas and make developments at a distance. With regard to the level of safety, we have always said that we want three years and, exceptionally, five years. In some communications, as a simplification measure, this latter nuance may have disappeared in some documents, but this is still the case for all 10-year revisions. For all other installations as well. I think I'm here.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic217x.u66	Are there any questions that Members believe have not yet been answered? Mevrouw Lalieux?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic217x.u67	Mr Bens, if I have heard you correctly as regards timing, you hope to celebrate the end of the year in complete peace. You think AFCN will be able to give us answers on Doel 1, Doel 2, Doel 3 and Tihange 2 by the end of the year, in four or five months. We were wondering about Electrabel's staff. Is it sufficient to maintain Doel 1 and Doel 2 in condition, to perform all the work, etc.- Is that what you're saying? Will your collaborators, your experts be enough to carry out all these analyses transparently, in their complexity, thoroughly and without haste? You don't have Electrabel's final list yet, otherwise we would have had an answer on our investigation. All this seems huge to me. Again, despite everything we can want for the winter, including security of supply, no matter how, but for us without Doel 1 or Doel 2, we must not have this in sight, under penalty of putting the safety of people at stake.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic217x.u68	Just a little shade. I didn't say I thought I'd celebrate the end of the year with complete peace of mind. I hope I do.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic217x.u69	You didn't say what year.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic217x.u70	End of this year. It's not a guarantee, but I hope so. Compared to the staff, it's clear that it's a lot of work for us. There will be a lot of overtime to be done by our experts, but I believe we are confident, we hope that we can achieve it within realistic deadlines, not let things go. Actually, we're masters of timing. At that time, there will be some pressure from the operator. I believe that if people focus on this, they can do this within a perfectly reasonable time frame.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic217x.u71	You'll stay in charge of the timing.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic217x.u72	Certainly. Finally, we are masters as soon as Electrabel submits us a file. This is the first case: Electrabel submits us, and then we are masters of the timing, of when we finished. It's always been like this!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic217x.u73	Mr Bens, I believe that the need for credibility and trust in the Agency has not been restored. I will explain to you two specific points in your statements. First, you justify yourself in relation to the SALTO mission by saying "what has been done for Tihange 1 serves us and is transposable". I had the same reflex and contacted the International Atomic Energy Agency. By email, they say clearly: "The result from a SALTO conducted at one plant cannot be presumed to cover other plants, even if they are similar". That is the response of the International Atomic Energy Agency. Mr. Bens, you must realize that we have been working on this. And you're telling us here that we can use the conclusions that were made on Tihange 1 to say that at Doel 1 and Doel 2, it's not necessary. I have here the e-mail of the International Atomic Energy Agency! How dare you say these things again today? Secondly, on the preliminary work, you say in 2009 that everything that is aging must be done before extending the lifespan. And today, you give your green light on Electrabel's text to say that it can be done in 2017, 2018 or 2019. It doesn't hold the road! You're no longer credible! In 2009, you said you had to do it before, and today you say we can do it later. After that, one should believe that you are not under pressure, that you are totally independent, that you have regained credibility. I know you only had 15 to 20 minutes to read the newspaper article again. However, what it says didn't hit you? How can we still believe, today, that you are in a position to manage the situation? You couldn't read the entire article again. The next day, the newspaper wrote the opposite. In addition, your press service has indicated that this is a very good article. It's in the paper. Did you deny it? Mr Bens, both in form and substance, we are facing a huge problem of credibility and trust. And yet you will have to manage Doel 1, Doel 2, Doel 3 and Tihange 2! I really feel like you're arming security because you're facing emergencies and calendars that aren't yours.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic217x.u74	Mr President, Mr Nollet, I just want to go back to your comment on the SALTO mission. "Cannot be applied directly to other plants" I did not say that the result of the SALTO mission from Tihange to Doel would be applied and not make SALTO to Doel. I said that Electrabel was going to apply the lessons learned from SALTO for Tihange as part of the management of aging in Doel. It's a nuance.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic217x.u75	And the Agency says that we cannot do that!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic217x.u76	The Agency says that the results cannot be applied as they are from one to the other. We're talking about a management system.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic217x.u77	Yes, but this makes it necessary to have a specific SALTO on Doel 1 and Doel 2 before, since one cannot apply the conclusions of one on the other.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic217x.u78	That's why we'll do a SALTO at Doel 1 and 2.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic217x.u79	When? After?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic217x.u80	As soon as possible for the Vienna Agency.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic217x.u81	But no, since for you, you are not bound by this agenda. You said it yourself. You must say that this will be done as soon as possible for the Vienna Agency. I agree with you, but not a mini SALTO, not a week. A real SALTO, and you have to do it first. Will you at least agree on this point? Will you agree that in the past, you have always said that it is a complete SALTO and not just a week, not a discount SALTO? Can you assure the Belgian people that they will have this look at the Vienna Agency, that the Vienna inspectors, outside the Belgian world, will come here, in the same timing as Tihange 1?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic217x.u82	First of all, they are not inspectors from Vienna.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic217x.u83	It's the International Atomic Energy Agency.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic217x.u84	It is the International Agency but it is not the experts of the Agency; it is the peers of other organizations, other power stations, other regulators who give advice. What is the purpose of this mission?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic217x.u85	It doesn't matter what it's about! Answer me on the calendar! Don't run away from the question about the schedule and what you've done in the past. It doesn't matter what it's about! In the past in Tihange 1, SALTO was realized, completely and beforehand. Here you are told that we are making a mini-SALTO, a week and a posteriori. In all consistency, you cannot accept! Consistent with what you have done in the past, you cannot accept unless you have external pressures! Your silence is clear!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic217x.u86	Mr President, I would like to reply to SALTO and the action of the International Atomic Energy Agency. Mr Bens, I hear you're going to do a SALTO but that will be a different SALTO, "light". It's a bit of a break from what's always been done in the past. Let's imagine that the International Atomic Energy Agency is telling you something else or drawing your attention to a number of points that have not been seen in SALTO and by AFCN, what will happen? A possible extension permit would have been given and, after that, the peer review or the International Atomic Energy Agency draws your attention to a number of things. What is, at that time, the credibility of the decision that will be taken? That's what I'm worried about right now.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic217x.u87	Mr Calvo, any word on this? No, I would ask you to intervene in this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic217x.u88	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic217x.u89	I would like to make it clear that this is not a SALTO light. The SALTO mission will be a complete mission. It is the pre-SALTO mission that does not meet all the internal criteria of the Vienna Agency. That is why they call it an expert mission. But with regard to form and result, it is just as equivalent to this SALTO. It's an assistance mission. That will give us some elements. If there are elements in it that show us that there are problems, we do not hesitate to stop the power plants.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic217x.u90	Vous avez bien this 2018?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic217x.u91	It's 2017... The expert mission takes place in January/February next and a year later, the other mission is planned, so in 2017. If I said 2018, I was wrong. If, in these missions, and this is true for any mission, we discover things that impact safety, we do not hesitate to stop a plant. We saw it well for Doel 3 and Tihange 2. If, during inspections, things appear, the plants are stopped. It will be the same, if, in aging, we discover things, we will stop at that time... For the moment, it is always AFCN that is the judge of nuclear safety in Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic217x.u92	Of course, Mr Bens, I would like to thank you very much for coming and for your answers. After your passage, however, I am left with a lot of questions. The last discussion is an example of this. I still wonder whether you are now the head of the cabinet of the Minister of Energy or the nuclear watchdog. In the past, the FANC has always claimed in black and white in reports distributed here, placed on your website and written to your team that SALTO must be done in advance. However, today you are at peace with the fact that a SALTO will take place in 2017, two years after the extension. The Agency's work will therefore only be verified by international experts two years later. You are violating your own guidelines. This inevitably questions your credibility and the credibility of the Federal Nuclear Control Agency. That's the first reason I'm left with a lot of questions. Second reason, Objective 1 and Objective 2. Does anyone know after today what will happen in the coming months? No. You have said that it will still be seen whether there will be a public investigation or an environmental impact report on the package of investment measures, yes or no. We still do not know what will happen in the coming months, when we absolutely need security. Citizens and businesses need perspective in this area and they should know where they stand, whether power will come out of their outlet yes or no. You are coming to Parliament today and four months after the debate on environmental impact reports and public research has exploded, you still cannot tell us today whether something like this is going to have to happen, yes or no, while you know perfectly well that you yourself have said what investment measures need to take place, and you know perfectly well what the legislation on this matter is. But no, there are questions, questions and questions. Third point, Objective 3 and Tihange 2. Those plants closed in June 2012. In June 2012. A year and a half later, you gave the green light to restart them. In no time, they had to be shut down again. Today there is still no clarity. The safety case report of Electrabel is still to be submitted. International experts have sat and met together, but still have to call and e-mail each other to see if everything is okay. Hopefully you can celebrate Christmas and New Year with clarity about Target 3 and Tihange 2. Colleagues, I really think it is time for clarity and certainty in the field of nuclear safety and the nuclear tout court. To date, Mr Bens, you have contributed to this uncertainty and uncertainty. That can't be the intention. You hold exactly that position to take care of the contrary. You need to make sure you're clear, make sure you're clear. Unfortunately, you have not been able to answer a number of fundamental questions today. That's too bad.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic217x.u93	Mr President, two more points on the implementation of the work related to ageing. Is aging long before the LTO is extended?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic217x.u94	What we do before is to ensure that all systems are functional in all circumstances When we talk about aging, it is a very broad subject that encompasses a lot of things. For example, obsolescence is also part of aging.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic217x.u95	I read the definition of ageing for the Agency in 2009: "For the ageing aspect, any adaptations of facilities or programmes must be made before the plants reach their forty years of operation". This is for aging. There is a difference of conception. Can you confirm to me today, Mr. Bens, that all about aging is long before that?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic217x.u96	Depends on the interpretation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic217x.u97	I do not interpret; I will re-read the Agency's sentence in its strategic note: "For the ageing aspect, any adjustments to the facilities or programmes must be made before the plants reach their forty years of operation". Do you confirm that phrase which is as it is in the strategic note?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic217x.u98	If you mean that equipment that has been so old and can no longer perform its functions needs to be replaced, that's right. If any work, that is to say, we need to improve safety, that's no.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic217x.u99	That's all that's related to aging. This is the same as the Agency's sentence. You didn't change the line on that? The ageing line remains the same.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic217x.u100	We must agree on the definition of what is...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic217x.u101	The definition is that of the time! Do you keep the 2009 definition?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic217x.u102	I repeat: our goal is to give the green light to continue...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic217x.u103	Do you keep the 2009 definition?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic217x.u104	I have to reread it with a rested head before I answer you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic217x.u105	Mr President, I would like to have an answer to this question: has the Agency changed its line and definition in relation to 2009 on ageing?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic217x.u106	Mr Bens has just said that he will give you the answer. I assume this will happen today. We will deliver it to you and the other committee members.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic217x.u107	Mr Bens, on the second point, in relation to the highest level, you say: "to the highest degree compared to the four Belgian power stations". No, again, in your 2009 document, it's in relation to Belgian power plants... [[...]] No, no! I read as follows: "The assessment is not only made with regard to the design of the most recent Belgian units, but in general with regard to the most recent PWR nuclear power plants in the world".
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic217x.u108	You say, "The assessment is made in relation to". It's something other than "to reach that level."
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic217x.u109	"The operator shall demonstrate that his installation has the highest degree of safety". The highest, and not "a sufficient level."
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic217x.u110	As practicable, as feasible.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic217x.u111	No. I'll read it to you as it is. This is your 2009 press release: "The operator must demonstrate that its facility has the highest degree of safety. The evaluation is not only done in relation to the design of the most recent Belgian units, but in general in relation to the most recent PWR nuclear power plants. The latest developments in design should be taken into account here." All I do is confront you with previous positions of the Agency. Why did I do it? This is certainly not our political agenda. Why did I do it? Because we see that, on each of the sensitive points, the Agency is changing its position. Why? Because there are external reasons that are not in his mission, which is to protect the population. That is the real problem. If you were to tell us here - and all your hesitations are a real problem - if you were to say here: "Yes, we are complying with what was written by the Agency in 2009", that would already be resolved. But now you're telling me: "I have to read it again. Was that really what we wrote in 2009 or not?" Mr Bens, yes or no, what you wrote in your strategic note in 2009 remains valid as it is? That's just the question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic217x.u112	I don't have a note in mind. I can't answer you now.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic217x.u113	I'll give it to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic217x.u114	We shall end this meeting here. I thank everyone for being here. The legal note and an answer to the last question will follow this afternoon. You will have the comprehensive report at your disposal tomorrow.
