ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-19-54-plenair-ip035x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-19-54-plenair-ip035x.u2	The President (in front of the standing assembly): Ladies and gentlemen, on the occasion of the events in Tunisia, I have sent the following message on behalf of all of you to the President of the Tunisian Parliament: "On behalf of the House of Representatives of Belgium, I wish to express my condolences to you for the odious attack that resulted in a large number of Tunisian and foreign victims at the National Museum of Bardo. The cowardice of this act can only inspire deep contempt. We bow with emotion to these unfortunate victims and wish to assure you of our solidarity with the Tunisian people and authorities. We would also like to express our admiration for the cold-bloodedness shown by Members and Members of Parliament during this testing day. We are convinced that Tunisia, with which our country, and also this Parliament, has close ties, will overcome this tragedy and will succeed in preserving all the achievements of democratic reforms in favour of the citizens. May I ask you to pass on the condolences of our assembly to the representatives of the Tunisian people?' That is the message to the President of the Tunisian Parliament. Meanwhile, the Belgian ambassador in Tunisia has informed us that a Belgian victim has also been killed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-19-54-plenair-ip035x.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, the government fully supports the words of the President of the Chamber. The attack that took place yesterday in Tunis hits all of us. This is an attack on freedom in a very early democracy. It is an attack on the most fundamental human values. That is why we condemn this in the strongest terms. Today, our thoughts go first and foremost to the victims and their families. In particular, we would like to express our support for the Belgian stakeholders. We offer our deepest sympathy to the family of the Belgian victim of this barbaric act.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-19-54-plenair-ip035x.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, may I ask you to observe a minute's silence in memory of the victims?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-19-54-plenair-ip035x.u5	Mr President, I would have liked to ask you a question in connection with the order of business. I am sure you have also read that the government, in previous statements, how will I formulate it, has withheld information on the budget. There is a deficit; a calculation error has been made in relation to pensions. Apparently, the government was already aware of this on 5 December, so before we had the final vote on the budget, one of the most important documents for Parliament and the government. I understand very well that a budget is being drawn up at a certain point in time and that the parameters of that time are being observed. However, if there is later information that does have some influence on the future, we are talking about just over 400 million people, then Parliament has the right to get that information. As I said, I'm sure you've read that too. My first question is therefore whether you have informed the government that this is not really possible and that Parliament is entitled to such information. Secondly, what will you do to avoid that sort of thing in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-19-54-plenair-ip035x.u6	Mr President, we would also like to speak because this is a subject that concerns the whole of Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-19-54-plenair-ip035x.u7	Mr. Laaouej, I didn't see you. I give the floor to Mr. Daerden.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-19-54-plenair-ip035x.u8	Mr President, I fully agree with my colleague on this important issue of the pension budget: 400 million euros is obviously a considerable sum which would have led to a different analysis of this 2015 budget. We therefore ask the Minister for the Budget for an explanation of this situation, especially a few weeks from the budget adjustment. That's a huge element!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-19-54-plenair-ip035x.u9	Are we being lied to?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-19-54-plenair-ip035x.u10	Did anyone lie to us? Are we being lied to? Are we going to keep lying to us?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-19-54-plenair-ip035x.u11	Mr President, we would like a clear answer to a clear question. How long has the government been in possession of this information? We were voted on a budget. I am not going to say that we have not had a debate. We had a debate on the budget. We worked a lot in the Finance Committee, but at the time we worked and debated the budget, did the government already have that information? The deficit then did not look at itself in the same way. If he had the information, it also means that we are being misled, which, in addition to distorting the budgetary and political debate, is still a lack of seriousness, if not more, on the part of the government. Mr President, we want clarification.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-19-54-plenair-ip035x.u12	Mr Hedebouw, I assume you support your colleagues' questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-19-54-plenair-ip035x.u13	Mr President, I think it is really important for the democratic debate to have the right figures. It is not possible to have a debate on a budget that contains such major errors. It therefore seems logical to me to ask Mr Jamar whether or not he was aware of the error. That is a basic democratic question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-19-54-plenair-ip035x.u14	I will answer your questions in the order in which they were asked me. On the question of whether I have taken action with the government, the answer is not yet. The second question was since when the government knew about this. I find that an interesting question, but I note that five fellow Members, including a member of your group, Mr Hedebouw, are asking questions to the Minister for the Budget. I assume it will be a question on this subject and the Minister for the Budget will answer it. The next question was what I will do for the future. That will, of course, be determined by the Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-19-54-plenair-ip035x.u15	Mr President, I find your answer frankly embarrassing. You are President of Parliament. You have said on several occasions that you are the chairman of everyone, not just the majority. An essential part of our democracy is that we have the right information. As President of Parliament, you must ensure that Members receive the right information. You are now saying that you want to wait for the Minister's answer. However, your answer should have been to ensure that the right information is given to Members at the right time. That was the answer you should have given.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-19-54-plenair-ip035x.u16	Mrs Temmerman, I take note of your position. I must only remind you that a democracy consists not only of speaking, but also of listening occasionally, so what I will do about the Minister's reply. I propose that we move on to the oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-19-54-plenair-ip035x.u17	Ladies and gentlemen, I would remind you that each question may last two minutes, just like the answer, and the reply may last one minute.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-19-54-plenair-ip035x.u18	Mr President, Minister, Jan Denys, labour market specialist at Randstad, says today in De Tijd that temporary work was the Uber of the 1960s. Indeed, temporary work has created a lot of work, including for low-skilled and young people, and that was a good thing. However, in our country temporary work is restricted, hindered and subject to many restrictions. Europe has considered, in the 2011 European Directive, that these restrictions should be removed. They had to be eliminated by the end of 2011, but that didn't happen in our country. Moreover, there is now the judgment of yesterday's European Court of Justice, which condemns another Member State, Finland, for prohibiting temporary agency work in certain sectors, which the Court does not believe should be allowed to do, unless it is for the sake of rules of general interest. Minister, we know that this government is ambitious in the field of temporary agency work and wants to develop temporary work in the public sector. The government agreement states that temporary agency work must be implemented by the government and public enterprises. Where are you at with the meeting? Have you spoken to your colleague, Mr Vandeput? What timing do you foresee for the implementation of that passage? The European directive that I referred to states that we must remove restrictions in the private sector. One of the restrictions in the private sector is the restriction that temporary workers should not be employed in the moving sector, for example. The reason that the employers and workers in the relocation sector cites is that the risk of theft by agency workers would be much greater; a fine example of corporateism, I think. There are still restrictions on temporary agency work in the construction sector, the graphics sector and the textile sector. What will you do with this European directive? Will you convert it? What is your timing on this?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-19-54-plenair-ip035x.u19	Mr Van Quickenborne, I will carry out the coalition agreement. You rightly cited it. On page 163 it says: "Outtime work in public administrations and public enterprises is provided and implemented by law." I will work on this and move forward very quickly with Minister Vandeput and others. There are other problems that we need to solve first, so as not to mention the index jump by name. So don't worry about that. It'll happen. You also refer to the judgment of the Court of Justice of 17 March. That was about the Finnish situation. In particular, Article 4 of the Directive states that temporary agency work may only be prohibited or restricted if it is properly justified and fits in the public interest. With us, the social partners gave very important advice on this at the National Labour Council in 2011. As always, you are very well informed. The social partners imposed a ban on temporary work in three sectors, in particular the relocation sector, inland waterway transport and the demolition of asbestos. I do not agree with what you say about the justification for the ban on temporary work in those three sectors. According to my information, this has mainly been done for workers' health and safety at work. Working with temporary workers could potentially endanger workers' health and safety at work. That was the unanimous opinion of the National Labour Council. Progress can, of course, always be made, including among the social partners, with a progressive understanding. At present, however, there is no intention for the social partners to discuss this again. The judgment applies to Finland and is therefore not directly a problem for the Belgian situation. As you know, I am working steadily, certainly on the implementation of the coalition agreement. If anything can be added, in consultation and unanimity with the social partners, you have a party in me, Mr Van Quickenborne.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-19-54-plenair-ip035x.u20	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. In any case, you have reaffirmed the commitment in the government agreement on the public sector. We hope that once the work on the index jump, which you follow closely, will be completed, we will be able to discuss the next chapter, in particular the admission of temporary agency work in the public sector. This is an important point, for which you have allies in the administration. People like Frank Van Massenhove and Fons Leroy are for it. As far as the private sector is concerned, I believe that the social partners are wrong. In my view, their argument is not in the general interest, as they cite it. I think this is too far-reaching an interpretation. We look forward to the possible initiatives of the social partners, and otherwise to those of Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-19-54-plenair-ip035x.u21	Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday's barbaric, cowardly, inhuman and intolerable acts in Tunis clearly remind us that the fight against terrorism must remain a priority. By specifically targeting a place frequented by foreign tourists, these facts demonstrate the terrorist threat that continues to weigh heavily on our States. The Belgian government has promised and promises to always make the security of our country its priority. The citizens today need action! On January 21, the day after Verviers' operations, you presented with your colleagues, the Minister of Justice and National Defence, twelve measures that constitute the government's plan to combat terrorism and radicalism. It must be noted that progress in this area and the implementation of these measures seem to be very weak. Of course, the army is in the streets, the database exists but is not yet executed. Bills relating to the withdrawal of documents, the deprivation of nationality and the activation of the mercenary law have not yet been tabled in Parliament. We have not yet seen a single text in the Committee on the Interior or Justice on the promises made by the government. However, we proposed that you take our already tabled texts and make them yours to move forward more quickly. Even yesterday, the Prime Minister pointed out that the strengthening of the fight against terrorism required the acceleration of measures on the ground, prevention and repression, as well as the provision of legal, human and material resources to the security services. We can only join the Prime Minister on the urgency of this issue, but we hope more than words, we want action. Mr Minister, what points have been executed at Belgian level in particular with regard to the decisions taken by the government following the Paris attacks and those foiled at Verviers? What will be the outcome of the budget conclave on the means promised by the government to the security services to enable them to work effectively? Can you give us an indication of the measures taken at European level following the two meetings you have just had on the subject?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-19-54-plenair-ip035x.u22	Mr President, given the circumstances, in order to reply to Mrs Matz, I will need more than two minutes. First of all, after the attacks in Tunisia, my department's crisis centre asked OCAM to provide us with an analysis of the threat. I can confirm that there is no reason to increase the level of threat in Belgium. As regards the implementation of the twelve measures that had been agreed, four preliminary drafts are submitted for approval by the Council of State – they had been accepted at first reading by the government. In addition, we have decided to revise the Foreign Fighters Circular, which will enter into force in April. In addition, we have put in place the optimisation of the exchange of information between the services and the administrative and judicial authorities. This requires an adaptation of the software, which will take place during the revision of the budget. In addition, the R plan – against radicalism – will be fine-tuned for next month. More specifically, with regard to the approach to radicalisation in prisons, this week you were able to read the plan of our colleague Koen Geens. We will also strengthen the analytical capacity of the State Security through a law containing various provisions, already implemented. I would add that a royal order to freeze national assets is in preparation. You also know that our military deployment project has already entered into force. Mr President, let me mention a few measures at European level.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-19-54-plenair-ip035x.u23	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-19-54-plenair-ip035x.u24	Mrs Matz, I can answer you on this point in the Committee on the Interior.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-19-54-plenair-ip035x.u25	Or in writing.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-19-54-plenair-ip035x.u26	Minister, thank you for that clarification. That is what we were saying at the moment, not much is being done. It's next week, it's next month... Already in January, we were told that the texts would come to Parliament in February. It's mid-March and they're still not here. We feel that things are taking a lot of time in relation to the concrete answers we need to give, and we hope that the government will give a boost in terms of means. Indeed, on this point, you have not answered us. If all the measures you implement are important, equally important means are needed to achieve them. We hope that these resources will be made available as part of the budgetary adjustment.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-19-54-plenair-ip035x.u27	Mr President, Minister, the hordes of jihadist barbarians have again sent their blood messengers to loosely assassinate 21 defenceless people, including 20 foreign tourists, and among them a Belgian, armed with their only desire to discover another country, another culture. Beyond these unacceptable civilian victims of international religious terrorism, it is once again our democratic values and societies that are touched in the heart. After Brussels, Paris, Copenhagen, Tunis is the real symbol of the road to democracy, which they have hit. Although the Arab Spring is now disenchanted because dictatorships have often given way to military or theological regimes where soldiers and spiritual guides have taken power, Tunisia is, especially since the last elections and the partial overthrow of the Islamist party Ennahdha, a young democracy that flourishes but is still fragile socio-economically. Minister, through our embassy on the spot, do you have any further information on this attack and any claims that may arise? How did the Tunisian authorities cope with this situation? More generally, in the socio-economic context of this country, what are the risks of such a bloody act on the economy? What is the state of the Belgian and European collaboration with Tunisia to support it in its reform, democratisation and socio-economic recovery, as well as security? I think Mr. Gilles de Kerchove visited the area recently. Is the European Neighbourhood Strategy adapted to the security and socio-economic challenges of this partner and priority region? Do you know more about our nationals who were affected by this attack? What are the Foreign Affairs recommendations for our nationals living or visiting, particularly in view of the World Social Forum that will take place next week?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-19-54-plenair-ip035x.u28	Mr President, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, the murderous attack on 18 March at the Bardo Museum in Tunis, following the attacks in Paris, the Jewish Museum in Brussels and Copenhagen, is deeply shocking to us. Some 20 people are said to have died, as well as some 40 injured. The two assailants have been identified and killed, but their nationality and the terrorist movement to which they belong are not yet known. If we intervene today, it is to recall two essential elements. First of all, we are convinced that we must reaffirm more than ever our support for the Tunisian authorities who have succeeded in their journey towards a democratic transition. Moreover, it is not only an attack on a museum, but also a symbolic attack on democracy and secularism. Indeed, the Tunisian Parliament, which is in the vicinity of this museum, was conducting hearings in the context of a draft anti-terrorist law. The attackers therefore attacked this symbol, but also Tunisian tourism, which, as my predecessor said, is a real economic lung for Tunisia, accounting for 12% of its GDP. Minister, my questions are in line with those of my colleague. How can we mobilize the international community to defend these universal values? What means can we use to support this country in its democratic revolution? More concretely, at what levels of power can we act, whether at Belgian or European level, to encourage, in particular, the provision of equipment and information, training and security? Finally, what about the Belgian nationals who were attacked in this attack?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-19-54-plenair-ip035x.u29	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to express my condolences on behalf of myself and my group to the family of the Belgian victim, but above all to the family and relatives of all the victims of the extreme act of violence yesterday in Tunis. They were the victims of a brutal attack less than 24 hours ago. It is yet another occurrence of extreme violence in our society and in our world. Minister, you know Tunisia well. It is the country where, according to many, the so-called Arab Spring started in 2011. The long road to a real democracy could be used there. Tunisia was also the guide country for many neighbouring countries in the region. There were also successful elections in Tunisia, which, according to the Head of the Monitoring Committee, my party member and Minister of State, Mrs Annemie Neyts, were organised in exemplary fashion. Mr Minister, an attack of this magnitude is therefore also a complete surprise. At the same time, however, he is not. For terrorists and extremists in the region, the democratic process is a thorn in the eye. So the worst thing we can do now is give up Tunisia. We do not therefore agree with the cynics who believe that there is no herb in the region against Islamism and radicalism. Last night thousands of Tunisians were already on the street with one message: la Tunisie restera debout. Minister, I stand with them. Minister, I had a number of questions for you, as it should be. What can the Belgian Government do to prevent terrorists from doing so in Libya or Algeria, but also in Tunisia? Are you denying the possibility of a more stringent travel advice against the great dependence of Tunisia on tourism, which is an important economic factor in Tunisia? In this way, do we not create a spiral whereby the economic situation becomes even more hopeless and thus a way is found to sow hatred and terrorism? Should we not ensure that the Tunisian people have a perspective?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-19-54-plenair-ip035x.u30	Mr President, Deputy Prime Minister, it is now Tunisia's turn to be struck by an atrocious, heinous, horrific attack, probably the worst attack that Tunisia has experienced in its recent history. First of all, I want to reiterate my condolences, our condolences, on behalf of my group, but, I imagine, also on behalf of all the members of this House, to the family, to the relatives of our compatriots, but also to all those victims. That's the hope we wanted to kill in Tunisia. This is the democracy we wanted to kill in Tunisia. Because this country, for the Arab world, represented hope. The hope that we could make the revolution for democracy, for freedom, and that we would not automatically fall between the claws of jihadists and Islamists. That is what we wanted to attack today in Tunisia. And this hope is not only a hope for Tunisia; it is not only a hope for the Arab world; it is not only a hope for the Mediterranean; it is a hope for the whole of Europe and the whole world. Because we know how fragile this country is today. We know how attacked this country is today, particularly on its border with Libya. It's true, Tunisians are now fragile, but they're standing. They're fighting. Their government, their president, recalled that they were at war against jihadism. And we have to be by their side. We are already at their side and I am pleased that we have sent special forces there to help their army consolidate their security. But I think we can do better and we can do more. Mr. Minister of Foreign Affairs, my questions are similar to those of my colleagues. What is the outcome of this barbaric attack? What do we know about our compatriots? What is the safety of the compatriots who are still there? What is the security of our soldiers who were sent there? Will their mission be affected, transformed? What is known about the possible participation of Belgian jihadists in the insecurity in Tunisia? Conversely, while there are several thousand jihadists in Tunisia, what is the possible threat to our own security in Belgium?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-19-54-plenair-ip035x.u31	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to condemn once again, in the strongest possible manner, the barbaric attack that took place yesterday in Tunis. We know that some 20 people have lost their lives and that there are dozens of wounded, but we do not yet have more precise information about the origin of the people who carried out this attack. Two of them were shot dead, one was arrested and others are suspected and prosecuted by the Tunisian authorities. We will, of course, follow the investigation on a day-to-day basis. I would also like to add that we immediately expressed our condolences and sympathy to the families of the victims, to their relatives, regardless of the nationality of the victims. On the two Belgian victims, I can say that there is a fatal victim who died as a result of a gunshot wound to the head. It's the wife of the man who sustained multiple gunshot wounds to the legs. He was admitted to a hospital for care and had surgery last night. His physical condition is now stable, but you will understand that he has a very difficult psychological situation after the death of his wife. Both come from Antwerp. The two daughters were notified after the identification. The embassy is in permanent contact with all actors and provides the necessary consular assistance. I would also like to make it clear that the travel notices are already very clear for our compatriots, for weeks, about Tunisia. We point out that our participation in a coalition in Iraq to fight against a terrorist group therefore calls for greater vigilance of all persons travelling to Tunisia as well as to other countries. The specific opinion for Tunisia sets out the risks of kidnapping and attacks throughout the country, and in particular the risks in the south, at the Libyan and Algerian borders. I would like to say that we do not advise travel; we do inform the situation correctly. That's our role. I know that many want to support Tunisia's development and to see to what extent it is possible and under what conditions. Finally, I would like to add that we will continue to fight terrorism in Belgium and abroad, not least in cooperation with the European Union but also with many partner countries. We will continue this work on a day-to-day basis. We are also doing so with Tunisia. Last Monday, I was receiving my Tunisian colleague and we were doing a fairly positive analysis of the evolution in Tunisia: a democracy that is being set up, elections that have been properly organised and economic development that we are trying to support. Support for Tunisia must continue. Militaryly, at the request of the Tunisian authorities, we had already sent training teams to assist the Tunisian army in its intelligence missions. These events in Tunis, after those in Brussels, Paris, Copenhagen, but also the events in Libya, Egypt and Syria or Iraq, to name but a few examples, must strengthen our determination to fight terrorism day after day and to do so in partnership with all those who wish to work in the same direction. I am thinking in particular of a large part of the Tunisian people and politicians.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-19-54-plenair-ip035x.u32	Minister, thank you for your answers. Today, we are all victims of these acts of violence and hatred throughout the world. Today, we are all Tunisians. This attack has yet another meaning, as it took place in our near Mediterranean neighbourhood. We must, in the face of this problem, have an approach, of course, of aid, training and security development within the country, but also a multidimensional approach within the framework of the Arab Spring, which we have somewhat overestimated. Mr Minister, if terrorism does not know borders, let us show them that our values of freedom brought about by this spring are stronger than hatred and blood and let us show these cowardly obscurantists, all democratic tendencies combined, that we Belgians do not fear those who, in the night, are looking for us, or even, that the skies fall on our heads!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-19-54-plenair-ip035x.u33	Mr President, I thank the Deputy Prime Minister for his answer. As he said, it is important to further strengthen our cooperation with our various partners to deal with these terrorist threats.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-19-54-plenair-ip035x.u34	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply. You emphasise very clearly that we must continue to support Tunisia. We can only agree on the importance of this. You also say that there will be no negative adjustment of the travel advice to Tunisia. Tourism is important for Tunisia: 12% of GDP and 6% of employment. If we did that, we would create an ideal breeding ground for hatred. So we can't do that. As you yourself have said, conflicts are also the ideal breeding ground. It is important that we also try to solve the problem in Libya.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-19-54-plenair-ip035x.u35	Mr. Minister of Foreign Affairs, thank you for your very clear and determined comments. I would like to pay tribute to the courage of the Tunisian people, who are standing and united, because they are on the front line in the face of these tragic events. We must also probably face what is happening on the other side of the Tunisian border, in Libya. It seems to me that we are turning too far away from the chaos that has settled there and threatens Tunisia. Finally, we must mobilize all of our diplomacy and international cooperation, not only in military terms, but also in development cooperation. I regret that the latter is absent from these countries and that it does not support them sufficiently. I believe that our arrangements, such as the Belgian Technical Cooperation (BTC) or the Belgian Investment Corporation for Developing Countries (BIO), which allows investment in the private sector, should be present in those countries that are trying to rebuild themselves and need all the instruments of our cooperation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-19-54-plenair-ip035x.u36	Mr President, Minister, on the eve of budgetary control, we have recently learned a slippage of nearly 800 million in the social security budget, of which 410 million were forgotten by the SPF Pensions. The initial planned effort of 583 million now stands at 1.3 billion! The Prime Minister said in the press that the lack of income from social contributions would be the main cause for about half, or 750 million. Minister, to date you are planning an overall budgetary effort close to the billion, while the monitoring committee is planning to do more than 1.5 billion. Minister, is this adjustment the result of an overly lax policy of the previous government or is it due to your actions? The measures that are being taken go in the right direction but not far enough, in my view, with regard to creating and facilitating employment and reducing public expenditure. Is it not time to take the necessary steps to go deeper into reforms, especially in structural economies in terms of state organisation? I am thinking of the Senate and the provinces. Finally, what department will have to tighten the belt, knowing that the departments responsible for security and justice are essential for the quietness of our fellow citizens?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-19-54-plenair-ip035x.u37	Mr. Chair, Minister, the monitoring committee is now giving the government the long-awaited figures, particularly on the growth rate. At the same time, as we know, the government parties are preparing for the next budget conclave, which is expected to begin in a few days. Minister, I do not hide from you that our fears are at the highest. In the press, you mention an amount of one billion euros to be found. This morning, the N-VA is talking about $1.6 billion. Yesterday, in the Finance Committee, the President spoke of two billion by counting the urgent demands of the departments of the police and justice which no longer know how to meet their obligations, given the drastic and linear savings imposed on them. We should therefore first agree on the figures. Mr Budget Minister, could you announce to this Parliament how much more money will have to be found in the budget conclave? At the same time, could you give us the agenda for budgetary work, both for the government and for the debates in our Parliament? Another crucial question is how you're going to do it. Again, there is a huge dissension in the head of the government's partners. Of course, the N-VA in the lead would still want spending cuts. But then, how to do it? The public services are roped. We saw him again this morning at the Mint Square event in Brussels. There is also a desire to cut out of the social security system or to limit unemployment benefits over time. But what makes me even more afraid and angry, minister, is that we are going to touch our health care again. Do I have to remind you that, for INAMI, in 2015, it is 355 million savings already realized? However, we are told that there are more than 1.3 billion deficits in the security sector instead of the 516 million already mentioned, not to mention the 400 million pensions we mentioned at the start of our parliamentary work. Can you confirm or deny this information, minister?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-19-54-plenair-ip035x.u38	Mr President, Mr Minister, you will have noted that my esteemed colleagues have had a lot of courage in the Committee on Social Affairs in recent days. Their efforts were highlighted: they held until 05:00 the next day. That's normal, of course! It is a proof of courage, which shows the willingness to move the issues forward, a will shared by all colleagues. I can tell you that the Budget Committee, in its time, also had its hours! We didn't have easy work, at the start of the mandate. Firms were not yet trained. Yet, despite these discomforts, we were able, and you were able, to table a credible budget in time. This has also been stressed by Europe, by Mr Moscovici, who is of the same colour of origin as my esteemed colleague's costume which preceded me on this microphone. (Mr. Senesael wears a red suit) (Brouhaha) But I know, Mrs Onkelinx, my dear friends in the PS, that when a PS has a word of sympathy with this government, it may injure you! However, I do not feel, when reading the articles, that today Mr Moscovici renounces or denies his origins. I am not asking you, Mrs Onkelinx, even if we live next to each other, to have sympathies with me or to love me! I simply ask you to respect me a little in this forum and to listen to me ask a topical question about monitoring. And for good reason! Today, Minister, you received this report. Mr Minister, the question is simple - but it is likely to require a lot of energy and vehement on the part of some - what will be the attitude to budgetary control, and what will be the timetable for this monitoring? Thank you for recognizing that something was right in this question. So everything is not lost to you!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-19-54-plenair-ip035x.u39	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, a few weeks ago we were told by the Federal Planning Office that this year we would not have 1.5% but only 1% of economic growth, which, of course, has an impact on the revenue of the State, the tax authorities and social security. Over the last few days there has been a great deal of speculation and many questions have been asked about the government's budgetary effort in budgetary control. In this context, amounts of 1 billion, 1.5 billion or 2 billion are mentioned. Minister, we are very curious about the precise amount of structural effort that the government will have to make in 2015. The Länder have already stated that they may deviate from the planned budgetary path, because of the expected new efforts and additional improvements. At the federal level, a budget path was agreed to achieve a balance in 2018. For the time being, Europe has found our budgetary path and the efforts made by the government and set out for the coming years to be positive. It is important to have our budget in order and to strike a balance in 2018, not only for our policies, but also not to build further debts for future generations, and of course also to remain on a good footing with Europe and not to gain increased control over our budgetary efforts. Mr Minister, today the report of the monitoring committee is coming up and we are all very interested in its exact content. You may already know the answers and conclusions that can be drawn from the report. Hence my question as to exactly what effort the federal government will have to make in 2015 during the forthcoming budgetary control. What structural efforts will still have to be made? Then, how will you deal with the questions of several government members to get additional resources? After all, there are many ministers who want additional resources. Furthermore, what agreements will you make with the Länder? Has any agreement been reached on budgetary control and on the path to be followed which will lead to the adoption of Europe? Finally, can you explain the efforts you are going to make and the consultations you are going to make to get Europe's approval for the intended route?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-19-54-plenair-ip035x.u40	Mr President, dear Mr Jamar, I know that the MR is not necessarily the party of sharing, but you could, at least, share your information. Since when, for example, do you know of this 400 million pension error? We'd like to know. Do you already have monitoring figures? We'd like to know that too. Just three months ago, the government announced a budgetary effort of $3.7 billion. Today we are talking about an additional effort of 2 billion. We therefore question the credibility of the figures you are making. The solutions you are considering are also quite worrying. MR says we'll cut public spending. The NV-A, on the other hand, shows even more precision by saying that we will cut off in social security. In other words, we will once again attack the unemployed, the sick, the pensioners. Minister, austerity is not the solution, it is the problem. So let me give you a little lead. Perhaps you know that the profits of the BEL20 - composed by the shares of twenty companies - have increased by 27%. These 20 companies distribute 11 billion dividends to their shareholders, i.e. 70% of their profits. Mr Jamar, can you give us a definitive figure on the additional budgetary effort that will have to be made? How long have you known about this $400 million mistake? Can you tell us, now, about the mistake that you will announce in three months' time? This will save us time. Rather than always making workers pay, do you envisage, at last, one day introducing a tax on wealth?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-19-54-plenair-ip035x.u41	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I thank you for your various interventions, which do not all go in the same direction and which suggest that I would already defend a budget when the monitoring committee is meeting, for the time being. In my opinion, a little pedagogy is needed. In addition, I thought some people were more aware of the procedures, given their seniority in this institution. Let's take it one by one and stay calm! Today, noon, the monitoring committee met and will report in the next few hours. Subsequently, as far as I am concerned – and this is my mission as Minister of Budget – I will send this report to the Prime Minister and to the Deputy Prime Ministers. From then on, and whoever is in power cannot act differently, three working groups will be set up: the Tax Revenue Group, the Primary Expenditure Group and the Social Security Group. It'll be tomorrow, Saturday or the weekend! I am being asked for conclusions even though the monitoring committee has not yet drawn the conclusions that it is expected to communicate to me in a few hours. Admit, Mr.President, that it is somewhat paradoxical to ask me to play Mrs.Sun – Mr. Van Hees just did it – to know what will happen in three months! However, figures were actually cited. This cannot be prevented in a democracy. On Tuesday, I personally quoted the figure of EUR 1 million and any individual correction is necessary when the press is reread. I said, "At the moment, without asking...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-19-54-plenair-ip035x.u42	One million euros!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-19-54-plenair-ip035x.u43	A billion! Thank you, Mrs. Onkelinx, I recognize your correction and your ethics. It's much more important than the bottom of the problem by doing a show! I actually quoted "one billion euros, everything remains equal to the time I'm talking to you". It was Tuesday noon! I'm okay and I don't do a show. This means that it was without a new request. It was the evaluation of my firm and my department. Since then, one or the other number has been quoted off the record by either. Personally, I'm trying to meet Mr. or Mrs. Off the Record. I'm having a hard time finding him or her! That being said, and in order to become somewhat serious again, Mr. Chairman, as soon as we know the procedure and working groups are set up, we will work on it. I take the beginning of Easter holidays as the deadline, but I hope we can finish before. At that time, we will begin the budgetary conclave, as has always been done. I don't see what the problem is. Moreover, I remind some who are shouting loudly at this moment that we have sometimes begun an adjustment conclave with three billion to find! Today, there is a great deal of respect for the interpretation of a given figure. As I speak to you, I cannot draw any conclusions from the report of the monitoring committee. Let it be clear, clear and precise! If I knew that, I would fail in my mission – which must be respected in all circumstances – on a ethical level. I note that no one is asking the question for the Regions. I do not know when the Walloon Region and the French Community will begin their conclave. I don't know if there's an agenda. I would be interested to know this because I am linking up with the European obligations and the 30 April deadline for the Stability Pact. The federal entity will have to hand over to Europe, on behalf of the Belgian house, the draft budget plan, except that some may begin their own conclave later. So please don't be moral to an institution that works on time, as it can, with the numbers it receives! You even ask me to analyze them before you get them! A correction is necessary in all circumstances, it seems to me! I was also asked about meetings with the Regions. There was a very constructive informal one and there will be one on 2 or 3 April with regard to this famous Stability Pact. For tax shift questions, I would say that I am not here to make the budget conclave. There is a budgetary conclave, some of you have already participated. This place is the democratic place by definition where an executive prepares its budget or budget adjustment and proposes the budgetary debate to Parliament. It would be rather surreal to see a minister alone say how we're going to find the money to make up for it. That's what I can answer to all of you, without feeling in trouble for a second.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-19-54-plenair-ip035x.u44	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-19-54-plenair-ip035x.u45	Mrs Onkelinx, are you President of this Parliament? About social security, the figures date back to 2013, when you were a minister!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-19-54-plenair-ip035x.u46	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-19-54-plenair-ip035x.u47	You were a government minister in 2013 with theseos software that was implemented in 2013. Yes or no? I'm done!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-19-54-plenair-ip035x.u48	Mr President, "P'tits holes, p'tits holes, always p'tits holes" is The Poinson of the Lilas! Mr. Jamar forgets that the MR was present in the former government. I just wanted to remind him! I would also like to remind him that Mr. De Croo was Minister of Pensions and the question asked of him was not answered. If in the context of topical questions, rather than going astray in the history of this democracy, we could get answers, that would be no worse!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-19-54-plenair-ip035x.u49	Minister, the new Governor of the National Bank, Jan Smets, wants further structural reforms. Among other things, it affirms that encouraging investment and growth is the key to restoring balance. Minister, creating the conditions that will enable our country to achieve this is what we would like you to do.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-19-54-plenair-ip035x.u50	Mr Minister, I note that the European Commission has become your ally to justify your austerity policy and injustices. This Commission welcomes your cowardly reforms such as index jump or pension at age 67. It is not from this Europe that we want! You refuse to balance labour taxation with capital, and there is a clear picture of the differences between the N-VA and the CD&V. What you're going to give with one hand, you're going to take it back by taxing diesel and gasoline, and by increasing VAT. But you will not dare to tackle big capital or the fight against tax evasion by continuing with the previous government. And that, the PS cannot accept it!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-19-54-plenair-ip035x.u51	Minister, I have heard your statements. My reply will be simple and will be based on trust. If I may say so, minister, I find that to be treated as a "pison of the lilacs" by the PS is rather a compliment from a party that tries or has tried not to dig a small hole but a big hole in which it wants to drag you!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-19-54-plenair-ip035x.u52	Thank you, Minister, for your answer, although I understand that we will have to wait until tonight to get precise figures. We have not been able to obtain any figures or prospects from your answer. We will therefore have to be patient. However, I would like to point out that it is important to maintain the budgetary path leading to a balance in 2018, in other words to maintain the efforts to reform. Just as we have done over the past few months, ladies and gentlemen of the PS, we certainly need to strike a balance between restructuring efforts and new revenues, in order to finally reach the budgetary path leading to a balance in 2018. I am confident that you and your government will come to a balanced exercise for an assured future.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-19-54-plenair-ip035x.u53	Mr Jamar, I asked you a clear question: when were you informed of this 400 million mistake? Obviously, you don't want to answer. I'll take note of that. Since we will not have an answer on your part on the figures, let us look at the substance of the question. That same day, when a demonstration of public sector workers was taking place at the Mint – at which Raoul Hedebouw and I were present this morning – what do the MR and the N-VA say? That public spending must be cut and that public services must be broken! On the same day, what are we also learning? Moreover, this will be the subject of my question to the Minister of Justice: the government is considering getting the fraudsters out of prison, in the event that they are already there... What is it, if not organizing class justice? I understand that in the MR, we like to extract financial crime from prison, but that is none the less class justice!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-19-54-plenair-ip035x.u54	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-19-54-plenair-ip035x.u55	I'm sorry, but there's no personal fact.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-19-54-plenair-ip035x.u56	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-19-54-plenair-ip035x.u57	Mrs Temmerman, it is not the intention to question the President of the Chamber, but rather the government, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-19-54-plenair-ip035x.u58	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-19-54-plenair-ip035x.u59	No, Mrs. Temmerman, not this time. By the way, I gave you an answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-19-54-plenair-ip035x.u60	Mr. Chairman...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-19-54-plenair-ip035x.u61	If you wish to speak on the order of business, you can take the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-19-54-plenair-ip035x.u62	Mr President, that was my group chairman's question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-19-54-plenair-ip035x.u63	No.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-19-54-plenair-ip035x.u64	Mrs Smaers has a point. We are indeed waiting for the figures from the monitoring committee. Mr President, I would like to ask you, if the monitoring committee's report is available soon, to examine with the Minister for the Budget whether this can also be delivered to Parliament, as is the case with the budget. That's what I wanted to ask you. That does not seem to me to be insignificant in order to be able to work in a good way.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-19-54-plenair-ip035x.u65	I will discuss this with the Minister for the Budget.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-19-54-plenair-ip035x.u66	Mr President, I am looking for the real Minister Geens. I'm declaring myself. Under the previous government, with the socialists and with Finance Minister Geens, we decided to tackle tax fraud very severely. At that time, we decided together to impose a penalty for tax fraud, up to five years in prison. We have decided to send specialized magistrates on the premises. We have decided to put together specialised investigation teams, all for one purpose, namely to tackle seriously serious tax fraud. The Socialists are no longer part of the government and since then we have been picking up many other signals about tax fraud. In general, those of the N-VA, the Minister of Finance and the Secretary of State responsible for combating tax fraud came. We have discussed here almost every week, very recently, the instruction for a new tax regulation or the caiman tax, which now shows that the origin of black money must no longer be investigated. We talked about limiting the investigatory powers of the BBI. CD&V has messed up a little bit in committee. (Protests from the CD&V Group's benches) I'm improving myself. You've messed up a lot. You surprised us today, Minister. Yesterday in your note and today in the newspapers said the following. That's not without importance. (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-19-54-plenair-ip035x.u67	I was present on the Finance Committee. What you have in your document is that you only want to bring criminal penalties before the criminal court. If you believe that serious tax fraud is no longer punishable, Minister...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-19-54-plenair-ip035x.u68	Where does it say that?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-19-54-plenair-ip035x.u69	That's what point 89 says. I will also quote paragraph 94: "Only those infringements that are considered to be genuinely criminal because the interests violated by the crime are so fundamental to the social interest will come before the criminal court." Well, we Socialists do consider serious social fraud to be of social importance. Let's be clear about that! Minister, what has made you today, as Minister of Justice, in contrast to the period in which you were Minister of Finance, that you no longer want to bring heavy tax, social and financial fraud before the criminal court?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-19-54-plenair-ip035x.u70	Mr. Secretary, yesterday we learned about your plan for justice. We have listened with interest, and we are now reading these 135 pages with even more interest. I must say, you certainly put yourself on the market with the plan. There's even a campaign movie. That is a very striking way of working.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-19-54-plenair-ip035x.u71	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-19-54-plenair-ip035x.u72	That is a positive point, Mr Calvo. You have to listen to me. There's food and drink in the plan, Mr. Calvo. There are a lot of things in the coalition agreement. There are a number of points where there is less talk, Minister. You will therefore not be surprised that our group has a number of questions on a number of aspects. I am thinking of pre-trial detention, the execution of sentences and the adaptation of the Lejeune Act. However, I would like to keep these questions for next week's debate in the Chamber. I am happy to hold them for the debate on the draft texts, because in the end it is up to us to decide what texts will be in front of us and what measures will follow. What the press controls today, even though you have made a global plan and even though you have touched every aspect of justice, is mainly tax fraud. The sp.a in particular now calls for tax fraudsters to stop going to jail and get a free pass. The party even speaks of blurring standards in the government. I think that is a very serious accusation, Minister. I do not read that in your note, and it is certainly not what we had in mind in the coalition agreement. (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-19-54-plenair-ip035x.u73	I think you should read better. Today we must ask you two questions, Minister. I would very much like to hear from you today that the government is certainly taking and tackling the serious financial and fiscal fraud, including in the Justice Plan. For the sake of understanding and order, perhaps you can explain to the Chamber today exactly how you will do and punish it in a serious way.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-19-54-plenair-ip035x.u74	Minister, the Justice Plan is a gift for traveling Eastern European gangs. These are not my words, Minister, but those of Professor of Criminal Law Brice De Ruyver. Mr. Secretary of State, your justice plan bears witness to an appalling naivety. You want to concrete the Lejeune Act in such a way that prisoners with a prison sentence of up to five years must do all the rapes automatically after half their sentence. It happens automatically. So they don't have any reason to behave in prison. Minister, now that the capacity in prisons had finally grown, at a time when this capacity has finally been increased, you say that the number of prisoners must be reduced to less than ten thousand. That's lower than the current artificially low number. You refer to the Netherlands, which has about eight thousand prisoners out of 17 million inhabitants. Mr Minister, in the Netherlands, the capacity of four thousand to twenty thousand was first greatly increased in the 1980s, precisely in order to implement any short sentence effectively. Every sentence is executed there, no matter how short. That is the opposite of what you want to do, because you want to take every sentence of less than one year out of the penal code. However, Minister, the policy in the Netherlands is working. Crime has fallen there and there is now indeed an excess of cells, because there are fewer criminals and not because the criminals are being allowed to wander the streets, as you suggest. Mr Minister, my question on the execution of penalties is simple. Why do you do the opposite of what guide country Netherlands has been doing successfully for years?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-19-54-plenair-ip035x.u75	Mr Minister, I did not really intend to question you today, because we will have a very thorough debate on this next Tuesday. I listened very carefully yesterday when you presented the main lines of your plan with a PowerPoint. However, I noticed on further reading that you seem to have forgotten a detail or a footnote, namely the section on tax fraud. You say that the slope must be investigated in order to remove tax fraud from criminal law and thus withdraw from the correct court. That's very remarkable. For us, fraud is a crime, and it must continue to be punished. You say you've based yourself on a lot of contacts with the field. I wonder where that idea came from. Who put you up to that idea? Why do you even do that? Is that too hard for the Justice Department? Shouldn't we be tackling tax fraud because it's too difficult? Or do you think tax fraudsters have no place in prison? It's not clear to me. We also need to think about the consequences. I would like to highlight three specific situations. First of all, what does it mean if the Justice Department is no longer allowed to interfere? Can an investigating judge arrest anyone else? Is he still allowed to order searches? You can't do all that anymore? Is that all going to be a responsibility of the administration? I also have a look at Open Vld, which says that the right of visitation of the BBI should be abolished. Then where are we going? Justice should no longer be allowed, the investigating judge should not be allowed, and for Open Vld, the investigators of the BBI should also prefer to exercise their right of visitation as little as possible in order to look for evidence. And what about the advisors and the intermediaries if you want to move everything to the administration? Mr Geens, those who help and set up constructions, such as accountants, accountants and lawyers, cannot be punished by the BBI. Will they all go free, too? I believe that you are taking the plan on very slippery ice. In any case, I wonder if that will be carried. I have heard that there is a working group on "Rightness of Taxation," chaired by Mr Van Rompuy. I wonder if that idea comes from that working group. How are you gonna organize all that at the BBI? We heard the head of the BBI on the committee last Tuesday. He argued for 112 additional investigators to be able to investigate and prosecute the large files. What will be the effects in this respect? Have you thought about that?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-19-54-plenair-ip035x.u76	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am very pleased that there are fellow Members looking for the real Minister Geens. You saw him on the committee yesterday and you'll see him again today. To be honest, he would have hoped that this would also be the meaning of Mr De Wit's words "campaign" and "in-the-market" that would lead to you being satisfied that he would come to all the questions for a long and very open time next Tuesday. That is what the real Minister, Mr Geens, had hoped for in silence, because he actually gave you the opportunity to read and think about it. Mr Van Hecke, I did not just see you reading in a green newspaper, but in a pink newspaper, in which less than four months ago Minister No extra resources were released at the level of the Brussels Public Prosecutor to prosecute financial crime. Yesterday I spoke for two hours in committee and one title in De Tijd this morning, where a scoop was clearly sought, is enough to have you ask me current questions. Mr Vanvelthoven, I am looking for Mr Vanvelthoven: do you really think that in the previous government, loyal to Mr Crombez, I have advocated the punishment of organized and serious tax fraud and that I would have suddenly forgotten that? Ladies and gentlemen, this is what we are talking about. Mr Vanvelthoven, I want to depenalize. That is to say, for all the facts that are being punished today and of which no specialist can list more than 2%, I would like to see what should be punished and what should not be punished. Should we punish the fact that the employment regulations do not mention public holidays? That's a social offense today. Do you think that's normal? Mr Vanvelthoven, I have heard you say that I cannot investigate the criminality of the facts, I say that I will. Mr Vanvelthoven, I am very much in favour of the prosecution of serious, organised tax fraud, I am very much in favour of the prosecution of organised fraud, I am even in favour of the bourgeois party against HSBC, that is clear. However, I am not in favour of impunity by exceeding the reasonable time in countless tax and financial crime prosecutions, which is the reality. I would rather, as I indicated yesterday, have a bad agreement than a good trial. Last week I answered a parliamentary question about an investigation into facts that had run for thirteen years. So I'd rather have a heavy transaction and a heavy fine than no prosecution at all. I want the public prosecutor to work on his core tasks, which are serious fraud. That is not every fact that is now criminalised in our law. Mrs De Wit, I hope that the foregoing is clear. You asked me for a clear explanation. Mrs Pas, you blame me for naivety. You're allowed to do that. You're young enough to blame me for naivety. That's a staff argument, and you can answer it. Isn't that right, Mr President? However, telling a woman she's young is allowed. I would like to point out that the difference in the number of prisoners in the Netherlands is not due to the fact that we are not sufficiently repressive, but to the fact that we are much more repressive than the Netherlands. In reply to your precise question, I can inform you that if a person receives a sentence of five years, he or she for me, in order to be released after half the sentence, should not appear before the criminal court unless the court asks for a longer term. Mrs Pas, at the moment such a convicted person is released after a third of his or her sentence. So there is no question of an automatism. There is an increase from one third to half. Moreover, there is the possibility for the public prosecutor to claim more than half of the time. So that is more repressive than before, if I may be clear. I don't know if what I'm setting out here is naive, but that's what the plan says. The penalties of less than one year are normally not implemented. I agree that serious recidivism in traffic cases still has to be punished with more than a year's imprisonment. I don't have a problem with that. I merely propose that the short prison sentences be removed from the Code and that they be replaced by autonomous sentences. At that time we will save a lot of Salduz guarantees and a lot of costs. However, I have no problem reviewing the penalties themselves for certain facts, which is also included in the plan, and keeping them above the year in a number of cases. In summary, Mr President, I remain in favour of punishing serious fraud. It is not my intention at all to automatically release convicted persons after half their sentence, if they are less than five years old. If the parquet asks for a longer term, that's perfectly okay for me. An independent judge will decide on this and not you, the legislator, and not me, the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-19-54-plenair-ip035x.u77	In my view, Minister, the explanation you have given does not exactly correspond to your conclusion. We will see what will eventually be in the legal texts. It was clear to the previous government that serious organised tax fraud is being tackled more severely. In your note you give an example of how you no longer wish to sanction what is administratively sanctioned to be sanctioned. You say that this is about tax, social and financial fraud, as you say. You should not be surprised that society stands on its back feet and reads that as it stands. We will wait for your texts, but let me warn you as a minister, since we now know the N-VA as the party of the rich: beware that this government does not become the government of the rich!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-19-54-plenair-ip035x.u78	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I have noted in particular that the serious facts are being dealt with seriously. That is, of course, the intention: serious facts call for a serious approach. For the N-VA, the criminal law approach will still remain essential. Mr Vanvelthoven, if you tell me that we are a party of the rich, I would like to say the following. Do you know the minimum penalty that your then Secretary of State, Mr Crombez, has imposed on this serious organised tax fraud? Eight days! In the case of tax fraud: minimum penalty of one month. If you call that a serious approach, that is not our serious approach.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-19-54-plenair-ip035x.u79	You say, Minister, that you had hoped that you would be able to hold the debate in committee in complete serenity next Tuesday. If you really believed that, I think this is merely a sign of naivety. Mr. Secretary, you want to depopulate the prisons, to save you. That's actually the common thread throughout your justice plan. It is digit fetishism to make the budget sound. However, people's safety must not be put at risk by savings. Safety is essential, it's not a side effect. If you hardly want to punish minor offences and you hardly want to punish them, this will only lead to crime, then it will no longer have any deterrent effect. I don't know if you have a title for your big plan yet. The most appropriate title seems to me to be: 'Old to the laxity'.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-19-54-plenair-ip035x.u80	Minister, it does not happen often, but you sometimes confuse Parliament. When I listened to your answer, I wondered if I had a version of the Justice Plan other than yourself. The plan, at border number 98, reads "that has nothing to do with pink papers "that where administrative sanctioning has already been introduced, for example in social, fiscal and financial criminal law, is considered to abolish penalty sanctioning. So without distinction in heavier or lighter. You're correcting yourself. You say you'll move on. You say that this serious social and fiscal fraud must be prosecuted. I agree. A first amendment to your plan can be tabled yourself by Tuesday. Then we are already in agreement on that point. Serious social and fiscal fraud must continue to be prosecuted. Otherwise, those who cooperate in it, who set up the constructions, will also disappear into impunity. Only then will we evolve into a class justice. I am sure that this can certainly not be your intention.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-19-54-plenair-ip035x.u81	Madam Secretary, in December 2014, we heard the painful story of a heavy autistic girl who found no place in the youth psychiatry. I was shy, Madam Secretary. At the beginning of this month the news came from a sixteen-year-old girl who had fallen to adults because of lack of space. I was ashamed, Madam Secretary. Early this week, a 17-year-old girl, with a serious psychiatric problem, was locked up in an Antwerp police cell. Madam Secretary, I failed. I was shy and embarrassed because you kept saying that there is no shortage of places for admission in children's and youth psychiatry, but that there is only need for coordinators. Over the last few days, you and your colleague in the Flemish government, Jo Vandeurzen, have fingered each other, but the people who needed your help remained in the cold. However, the industry's cry for help is very clear. I refer, among other things, to the statements made by children's psychiatrists Eric Schoentjes, Neves Ramos and Peter Adriaenssens. Madam Secretary, I can only conclude that the sector and the facts contradict you. That seems to me to be problematic for a minister, to put it mildly. The sp.a finds it unacceptable that you leave those vulnerable young people and their families to their fate and that young people with psychiatric problems end up in prison, in the streets or in the streets. Madam Secretary, would you please listen? It may not be serious enough. That's obvious.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-19-54-plenair-ip035x.u82	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-19-54-plenair-ip035x.u83	No, you were talking to Mr. Bracke. It is high time you took the question of juvenile judges and child psychiatrists seriously. That's why I have four questions for you. How do you explain the contradictions between your statement and the poignant reality? What are you doing to provide sufficient crisis relief for young people? What are you doing to provide good care in the children's home environment in order to prevent crises from happening again? Is that what you're trying to prevent? What are you doing to provide long-term reception facilities? So how will you avoid that next week perhaps another child will have to spend the night in a cell? Madam Secretary, we must spare ourselves this disgrace.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-19-54-plenair-ip035x.u84	Mr President, Minister, two years ago I was here in the same place to ask Mrs Onkelinx about a very autistic girl who was then admitted to the adult section of Zelzate. Mrs. Onkelinx promised a plan for children and young people. She also promised additional resources. Today, a few years later and a state reform further, I have to say that nothing has changed on the ground. Madam Minister, you replied two weeks ago in committee, and I quote you because I think it is a very important statement: Mrs Muylle, I knew that mental health in our country is ill. Now that I'm a minister and I'm confronted with the terrain every day, I know the situation is even worse than I thought. You're right. Six percent of the budget goes to mental health care, but when we look at the beds in psychiatry, only 3.5 percent goes to children and young people. That's not much. The coalition agreement we have drawn up together makes a clear choice and makes a priority of mental health care. It's about a shared competence. It is also about the Communities. The Communities must also assume their responsibilities in this respect. There is a plan for 34 concrete actions for the Inter-Ministerial Conference. You have already promised EUR 1.2 million for the coordinators, but we are asking for more. There is a clear need for additional capacity in crisis management. There's got to be one. There is also a very clear demand for a change of beds, so that we can also deploy additional resources out of the box. You also need to create that possibility. Therefore, and I follow Mr Detiège in that, I ask you what you will do. After all, I do not feel like standing here again with the same question within a few weeks, or within a year.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-19-54-plenair-ip035x.u85	Mrs Detiège, if you say that you are ashamed and shy, I can understand that, because your party, the sp.a, has delivered the Minister of Social Affairs with the PS 26 years. So I totally understand you. Having said that, there are indeed distressing situations in parents and children in need of mental health care. It's a pain in the ass for them. The problems are not new, the situation has been uneven for years. I'm working hard to fix that, but it's gonna take some time. Let me give you some guidelines of my policy on the mental health of children and young people, and some nuances in the debate that have sometimes been lost in recent days. There is a lot of goodwill in the field to work on improvements. Both my fellow Members from the Communities and myself are determined to make the necessary progress in this sector. There are already a number of concrete issues under way in the coalition agreement. On 30 March, at the Inter-Ministerial Conference on Health, we will present the guide to a new mental health policy for children and young people for signature. This guide is the fruit of intense cooperation between the various authorities and actors. Inspiration was found in, among other things, reports from the WHO, the Knowledge Centre and the National Council for Hospital Facilities. What do we put the emphasis on? Firstly, we place the emphasis on care continuity. Better coordination in the network should speed up the right care for each young person. Secondly, we will strengthen the mental health care system. The sector and the scientific community agree on the importance of guidance in their own learning and living environment. Through more home guidance, we also involve parents more closely in the assistance. However, this approach does not preclude a residential inclusion. I am therefore currently considering how resources can be made available to enable these additional investments to be made. I will also discuss with the Länder the investments they can make within their powers. The guide is here. In the coming weeks, I will be sitting with representatives of the field to put the practical implementation on track. For example, we are also working to relieve the pressure on the residential offer so that the places can be allocated more quickly to children and young people who need a recording. We are also currently examining a better response to crisis situations within the residential offer, such as those that have reached the press. Believe me, there are still many who didn't. Mrs Detiège, only if we work hard and well together on these policy priorities can we find a solution for the very sick mental health care. I want to work hard on this, but I cannot correct a situation that has been distorted for years in a few weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-19-54-plenair-ip035x.u86	Mr President, Madam Minister, what you did earlier with Minister Vandeurzen, you are now doing with Minister Onkelinx. I find it very easy that as a minister you do not take responsibility. Things like that happen today. You must respond today and not start shooting at other ministers. I have asked you clear questions and I expect a clear answer. Answers in terms of consultation and investigations are not answers for me. Both the sector itself and the parents, who are dealing with such children, point out that this is extremely difficult. We need urgent help, first and foremost for those children themselves. I know children with severe autism problems in my immediate vicinity. I know how they feel. I know how anxious they can be when they find themselves in another environment. I would like to make an appeal to please make an effort and proceed quickly. Next week when another child with autism ends up in a cell, this is very bad for that child. Madam Minister, I would like you to work on the budgetary control of sufficient capacity and care for those children who deserve the right care and this for the longer term. I hope you'll do something about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-19-54-plenair-ip035x.u87	Mr President, Minister, the measures you have outlined are good measures. You also have our support for implementing these measures, but more needs to be done today. We need those extra places in the crisis shelter. You should also create the possibility to convert beds. I listened to yesterday's debate in the Flemish Parliament, and I hear your party and the N-VA clearly plead for more funding at federal level for mental health care. You will be asked by Mr Vercammen about one particular cholesterol reduction that we all know will immediately win EUR 70 million if we repay it like any other cholesterol reduction in this country. There's a lot you can do with that 70 million euros. This is our courageous measure, Madam Secretary. Increase resources for children and young people in crisis care.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-19-54-plenair-ip035x.u88	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the headline in Het Nieuwsblad was "dangerous cholesterol reduction" in Belgium. A president of the United States once said that a lie can fly around the world before the truth has put on her pants. One will only be one of those three hundred thousand. In the best case case, the doctor will be contacted as soon as possible. In the worst case, one immediately gets a heart attack or interrupts the medication, which greatly increases the risk of an infarction or stroke. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to introduce you to the wonderful world of cholesterol. Cholesterol is an essential building block of our organism; one third of our cell walls are built with cholesterol-derived products. Our sex hormones are also made based on cholesterol. As with building blocks often happens, when there are too many, they get in the way dangerously. Cholesterol will then hide blood vessels and cause heart attacks and strokes. I now come to my point, ladies and gentlemen. Where is cholesterol made? Three quarters of the cholesterol in our blood we make ourselves, through our liver. Only one quarter comes from the diet. That is why statins in general, and Crestor in particular, are very efficient in protecting against cardiovascular diseases. After all, they inhibit the production of cholesterol. Of course there are side effects. There's always a downside of the medal. The development of diabetes is a small, negligible effect compared to the intended, extensively statistically documented, positive effects. Madam Secretary, that's why I'm asking. Can you tell us to what extent the mortality of cardiovascular diseases has been reduced thanks to the use of statins in general, and possibly thanks to Crestor in particular? Do you not think that the spectacular coverage of medically complex problems is overly sensational, in which the good, mostly ignorant citizen is driven by useless and counterproductive fear?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-19-54-plenair-ip035x.u89	Mr President, Mr Vercammen, the medicine Crestor in question belongs to the pharmaceutical group of statins or cholesterol lowering agents. It is available in Belgium only under medical prescription and therefore under the supervision of a doctor. The cardiovascular factors that are positively influenced by statins are beyond question. The potential outbreak of diabetes due to the use of Crestor is known and is mentioned in the summary of product characteristics as well as in the patient package leaflet. Indeed, the incidence of diabetes in patients under Crestor was already discussed at European level in 2010. The discussions then led to a review of both the Summary of Product Characteristics and the Patient Leaflet. In the light of European pharmacovigilance, the Netherlands is the reference Member State and thus responsible for possible signals related to Crestor. The services of the FAGG have therefore already contacted the Dutch government to obtain more information on the need to re-evaluate the benefit-risk ratio for that product following the new study in the US. At present, we do not have any elements that would justify urgent action. It goes without saying that the new data will also be examined to assess the need for additional measures on Crestor.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-19-54-plenair-ip035x.u90	Madam Secretary, thank you for your rather full reply. I call for some restraint on spectacular effects or side effects in the medical world in our first-line journalism. I would like to briefly highlight the double relationship between diabetes and cholesterol. Thanks to the spectacular decrease in cholesterol levels caused by these medications, our patients get a good feeling. So good that the attention to lifestyle and dietary habits is lost, because the hardworking Flame and also its southern sympathetic neighbor are burgundians. Type 2 diabetes remains a welfare disease, due to unadjusted calorie intake and low physical activity.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-19-54-plenair-ip035x.u91	Mr President, to change a little, I am going to address the Minister of the Environment today. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this year 2015 is a special year in climate policy. If I roll the agenda backwards, in December, there will be the International Climate Conference. On 21 March – it's a famous move closer – it's Forest and Tree Day and this week, from 16 to 19 March, it's FLEGT week around the European Commission that organises itself on the mechanisms of certification of wood to avoid illegal trade. This week met around the European Commission representatives of wood exporting countries, administrations, economic actors and also environmental actors. Madam Minister, this is a challenge for the European Union, including Belgium, since the port of Antwerp is one of the biggest gateways to illegal timber within the European Union. In addition, many economic actors, artisans and woodworking companies are confronted with policies and measures to certify and verify compliance with legalisation, which are cumbersome and often ineffective. Madam Minister, have you taken advantage of this week to mobilise yourself and our administration and try to instil in the European Union a review, modernisation and more effective control and certification tools to avoid illegal trade in timber?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-19-54-plenair-ip035x.u92	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I thank you for your question, which allows me to recall here the importance of the problem of illegal deforestation. I am aware of this issue. Greenpeace representatives were welcomed to my office to present their latest report on deforestation in the Amazon. The environmental, social and economic consequences of deforestation are numerous. The devastating passage of cyclone Pam in Vanuatu has once again shown the catastrophic consequences of global warming and extreme deforestation. This is how the massive grubbing-up around the capital Port-Vila prevents the rains and has undoubtedly aggravated the damage. Overexploitation of forest resources has a direct impact on climate change and biodiversity loss. It strengthens the informal economy and thus internal conflicts in producing countries. Finally, illegal logging reduces the margin of reliable farmers and complicates imports for our responsible actors. You know as well as I do the regulation to combat the trade in illegally harvested timber, which has three pillars that I do not take back here to be quick and in the time given to me to respond. You know that Belgium is traditionally, I am aware, one of the gateways through the port of Antwerp for raw materials in Europe. The task of the authorities is therefore not easy, especially since importers often work with traders and buy at sea. The wood can thus change at sea up to five times as seller. But be assured that our country does not remain inactive in terms of inspection. A few dozen containers from Brazil were blocked preventively from October to December 2014. As soon as I arrived, I learned that this could be done and I followed the whole maneuver. The containers were released after verification of the importer's certifications by the administration to the local authorities. Indeed, Belgium works with customs and its embassies on the spot, including Brazil, the Republic of the Congo and Rwanda, for example, and with local administrations, to investigate on the ground if there is a suspicion. Belgium also works with other Member States such as France, the Netherlands and Germany. I would also like to point out that importers have already banned two Brazilian suppliers from their list. An improvement in the effectiveness of controls is always possible. I am, of course, working with my administration in accordance with the budgetary framework. Although public awareness is important, the problem cannot be solved with advertising effects alone. Be assured, honourable Member, that Belgium does not wait this week to be active, but is very sensitive because of the special nature of this week, which you have recalled, and that it plays its role with voluntarism throughout the year in order to preserve natural resources throughout the world and promote sustainable development.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-19-54-plenair-ip035x.u93	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. Solving climate problems means solving economic problems that have social consequences for the populations concerned. Madam Minister, it would also have been interesting to review, in collaboration with the European Commission and the timber importers and exporters, the way in which on-site monitoring of timber production is organised, as well as the control of the export sector. For this to happen, it is imperative to use independent bodies and to cover wider geographical areas, as ASEAN proposes for Asian countries. Negotiations with the European Commission are now organised on a country-by-country basis. We know that this is too expensive, that the procedure is too slow and that we are unable to move forward. At the same time, we sometimes find ourselves facing the impossibility of carrying out checks. For example, in Burma, the minister who awards certifications is the operator of the country's forests. It is therefore essential to send independent agencies to exporting countries, which will help our companies and artisans to verify the origin of the timber they import.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-19-54-plenair-ip035x.u94	Minister, I was in Brussels this morning at Muntplein. There were many people, more than 5,000 people, civil servants. They were present because they are afraid of their own future, because they are afraid that in the coming years they will no longer be able to publicly offer the services for which they are paid by the government to the people, that they will no longer be able to work in the different hospitals or public transport services in which they work. All these people have fears for their future and for their retirement, but also for what they teach the community. You have indicated in your policy statement that you want to reduce the budgets of the various services, sometimes with figures from 15% to 20%. You have also stated that four out of five drivers in the services will no longer be replaced. Mr Minister, my question today is very clear. Can you give me any idea how many officials are going to disappear from the federal administrations in the next four to five years? I've looked at the federal website pdata.be, data that you'll also have. We have just calculated how many officials could leave in the four to five years to come. They are, of course, estimates. This concerns 1 357 persons in 2015, 1 402 persons in 2016, 1 876 officials in 2017, 2 162 in 2018 and 2 255 in 2019. In other words, 9 052 officials could possibly leave in the next five years. Minister, how many of those 9 052 officials will be replaced and how many do you not want to replace in the public services?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-19-54-plenair-ip035x.u95	Mr Hedebouw, as Minister of Civil Service, I am responsible for the federal officials. All the other examples you mention unfortunately relate to questions that I cannot answer. The government has planned to balance the budget in 2018, without additional new taxes for working people. That's the starting point. You have mentioned a number of figures relating to replacement ratios. I do not know from which documents you retrieve that data, but it will certainly not be documents that have ever been signed by me. If you find an autograph I've signed, Mr Hedebouw, that's okay. However, you will not catch me today with the replacement rate and the number of full-time equivalents. The government has set a number of very ambitious targets for our civil service as a public service provider and for the official as a proud, public service provider or civil servant, as it is said in the Anglo-Saxon world. That is why serious savings must be made in the coming years. Those numbers are well known. It starts with 4 % of the staff credit, with 2 % added each year thereafter. That is what we are going for, not only by doing more with fewer people, but above all by working smarter and focusing on what our people really need, on the core tasks of government and on serving the community.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-19-54-plenair-ip035x.u96	Minister, you are asking about the sources of my figures. They come from your own services, especially Pdata. I find it a little strange that you don't even know your own figures about the number of people who could leave. The political significance, however, is that you do not want to give the figure. You do not want to give the figure, because you know that it will be about thousands of officials. You say today that it is indeed about thousands of officials. The PVDA cannot accept this as a left-wing party. I do not understand that you speak in your policy statement about customers rather than about users of public services. This is really about a vision of society. You know, Minister, on 22 April there will be a great movement in Belgium, because there are many people who really want to fight for public services, so that our society remains an equal society.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-19-54-plenair-ip035x.u97	Ladies and gentlemen, I was just impressed by Mr Vercammen's exposé on cholesterol that I forgot to tell you that it was his maiden speech. I should like to congratulate him twice for that. (Applause)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-19-54-plenair-ip035x.u98	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the drone industry is currently a very young industry, but it is also under heavy pressure. The reason for this is that unfortunately there is still no legislative framework for drones in our country at the moment. A lot of young Belgian entrepreneurs are engaged in this industry, which is particularly innovative. There are a lot of young people working in it, both in Flanders, in Brussels and in Wallonia. So there really is more than ever a need for a regulatory framework. You assure us through the media that a royal decision is in the making. What we have heard in the last few weeks, however, is that this decision will be so strict that it will be the death penalty, and I know that it will be heavy words for this new economy, which is so precious and so important to our country. The European Transport Council took place on 13 March 2015. You couldn't be here yourself. There was the Riga Declaration from two weeks ago. There was the vision of the European Aviation Safety Agency. These are all things that are ready for you to take over and implement in our country. Madam Minister, I dare say that at the moment all stakeholders are prepared to work not only on companies, but also on your own Federal Public Service Mobility, Defence and Belgocontrol. Unfortunately, your colleague, Minister Vandeput, has already left. At the beginning of this week, we had a very important meeting, including with the Defence Council, in which the Defence Summit ensured that it wanted to reflect on the dossier in a very constructive way. We're not talking about the toy drones. We are talking about innovative industry, precision agriculture, the security sector and the event sector. They are active in many areas. That is why I would like to ask you the following. What consultations have you held with this industry over the last few months? When do you want to land with a royal decision, respecting privacy and security rules? Believe me, the drone industry is evolving so fast that we don't have a day to lose. Can you guarantee that the Royal Decree will not destroy the Belgian drone industry? That's what this is about. After all, it is far too strict compared to the other European countries.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-19-54-plenair-ip035x.u99	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, a lot has been said in recent days about the draft royal decision on drones. Once again, I wish to see a legislative framework put in place as soon as possible in order to support our important, and even internationally recognised, economic sector of drones. I have been in regular contact with this sector. I am currently finalising the text so that it can enter into force as soon as possible. In doing so, I aim to strike a balance between the development of an economic activity and the requirements of security and privacy. However, the legal framework must be incorporated into a much wider whole, which some people forget. Firstly, because of its limited size and the complexity of its airspace, our country is asking for specific considerations for the integration of drones. Secondly, a drone is an aircraft and is therefore subject to international aviation legislation. We must not do what we want. Thirdly, the drones are added to the group of existing aircraft, which is highly structured and for which safety requirements have been able to ensure a very low accident rate. I can therefore reassure you, Mrs Heeren, very soon I will propose a text which is the result of consultation with my administration, Defence and Belgocontrol, and which also takes account of the sectoral considerations. The text will then be submitted to the Regions and the Council of State for their opinions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-19-54-plenair-ip035x.u100	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply. This consultation with all actors is indeed important. I hope that there will also be a consultation at the Council of Ministers. However, if you are drawing up a design that limits it to 60 metres, you are better off not making a royal decision, because this industrial activity is done in our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-19-54-plenair-ip035x.u101	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 18 March 2015, I propose that the legislative proposal (Mrs Veerle Wouters, Mr Francis Delpérée, Georges Gilkinet and Mr Ahmed Laaouej, Mrs Karin Temmerman, Mr Luk Van Biesen and Mr Servais Verherstraeten and Mrs Sophie Wilmès) amend the law of 4 July 1989 on the limitation and control of electoral expenditure for the election of the Chamber of Representatives, the financing and the open accounting of political parties, Nos 949/1 to 4. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 18 March 2015, I propose that you include in the agenda of this afternoon's plenary session the bill (Ms Veerle Wouters, MM. Francis Delperée, Georges Gilkinet and Ahmed Laaouej, Mrs Karin Temmerman, MM. Luk Van Biesen and Servais Verherstraeten and Sophie Wilmès) amending the Act of 4 July 1989 on the limitation and control of election expenses incurred for the election of the House of Representatives, as well as on the financing and open accounting of political parties, Nos. 949/1 to 4. Mr Konrad Degroote will report orally. Mr. Conseil Degroote fera rapport oral. Are you sure you don't mind? Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-19-54-plenair-ip035x.u102	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Veerle Wouters, Francis Delpérée, Georges Gilkinet, Ahmed Laaouej, Karin Temmerman, Luk Van Biesen, Servais Verherstraeten, Sophie Wilmès
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-19-54-plenair-ip035x.u103	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-19-54-plenair-ip035x.u104	Mr President, I go back to the law of 4 July 1989 on the limitation and control of electoral expenditure for the election of the Chamber of Representatives. This law was amended by Law of 6 January 2014 and a schedule for the Audit Board was established by that Law. The entry into force of this Act was scheduled at that time on 1 January 2015, so that the documents relating to 2014, the financial year 2014, had to be submitted in this way. However, the Audit Board was only installed on 20 January 2015 and did not yet have any internal rules. One of the annexes to that domestic regulation was the scheme provided for. All that wasn't ready. Therefore, it is requested to postpone the entry into force of those provisions until 1 January 2016, mainly in order to promote legal certainty. A proposal to this effect was submitted by several colleagues from the N-VA, the cdH, Ecolo-Groen, the PS, the sp.a, the Open Vld, CD&V and the MR. Yesterday, this proposal was discussed in committee. Our good colleague Veerle Wouters has given a detailed, detailed and complete explanation to all those present and is willing to repeat this full explanation, should there be any questions. However, I believe that everyone was very impressed and will be satisfied with the explanation. Two amendments were adopted at the committee meeting. Finally, the proposal, including the amendments, was adopted unanimously. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, so far we have had this oral report.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-19-54-plenair-ip035x.u105	Mr President, I would like to take this opportunity to remind you that we, as elected PTB-GO, sincerely regret. not being able to attend discussions on such important topics. As a reminder, parties that do not constitute a group are not invited to this committee in camera. It is anomalous that, in a democratic system, we establish this democracy at two speeds for a subject that concerns us all. Indeed, party obligations are the same, whether or not the party forms a group. That is why I think it would be wiser for this kind of debate to also invite a representative of the other unincorporated parties. This will improve after the upcoming elections, Mr. President. I guarantee you that we will soon form a group. As long as you didn't, I wish you'd invited us. That's why the PTB-GO! will abstain in this vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-19-54-plenair-ip035x.u106	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? ) The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-19-54-plenair-ip035x.u107	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (949/4) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (949/4) The bill has 7 articles. The bill has 7 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-19-54-plenair-ip035x.u108	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-19-54-plenair-ip035x.u109	By letter of 16 March 2015, the Attorney General shall send documents to the Court of Appeal in Liège to enable the Chamber to allow, in application of Article 59 of the Constitution, any prosecutions against one of our colleagues. By letter of 16 March 2015, the Attorney General of the Liège Court of Appeal provided documents in order to enable the Chamber to possibly authorize prosecution by one of our colleagues under article 59 of the Constitution. In accordance with Rule 160 of the Rules of Procedure, the documents shall be sent to the Commission for the Prosecutions. In accordance with Rule 160 of the Rules of Procedure, the documents are referred to the Prosecution Committee. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-19-54-plenair-ip035x.u110	In accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 5 February 2015, a new call to candidates for the mandate of the Chair of the Supervisory Body on police information was published in the Belgian Official Journal of 11 February 2015. In accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 5 February 2015, a new call for candidates to serve as President of the Police Information Review Body was published in the Belgian Monitor on 11 February 2015. The applications were to be submitted by 13 March 2015. Applications were to be submitted no later than 13 March 2015. The following application was submitted within the prescribed time limit: Mr Philippe Arnould (F); Judge at the police court in Namur. The following candidacy was submitted within the prescribed time limit: Mr. Philippe Arnould (F); judge at the Namur Police Court. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 18 March 2015, the candidate's CV will be delivered to the political groups and the candidate will be heard by the Committee on Home Affairs, General Affairs and the Public Prosecutor. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 18 March 2015, the candidate's curriculum vitae will be transmitted to the political groups and the Committee on the Interior, General Affairs and the Civil Service will hold the candidate's hearing. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-19-54-plenair-ip035x.u111	The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. If there is no objection, I shall consider it adopted; in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be sent to the committees responsible. If there are no comments on this subject, I will take it into account as a matter of fact and refer the proposals back to the relevant committees in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 18 March 2015, I also propose that you consider: - the bill (Mrs Muriel Gerkens, Mr Stefaan Van Hecke, Jean-Marc Nollet, Kristof Calvo and Georges Gilkinet and Mrs Evita Willaert) amending the law of 6 April 2010 on market practices and consumer protection and establishing a Commission for the Regulation of Advertising, No. 956/1. Sent to the Commission for Business, Science Policy, Education, National Scientific and Cultural Institutions, Small and Medium-sized Enterprises and Agriculture - the motion for a resolution (Mr Marcel Cheron, Mr Stefaan Van Hecke, Mr Kristof Calvo, Mr Jean-Marc Nollet, Mr Georges Gilkinet and Mrs Evita Willaert) on a mandate to the Court of Auditors to examine the follow-up to the management agreements between SNCB, Infrabel and the State, No. 962/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-19-54-plenair-ip035x.u112	- the bill (Mr Benoit Hellings, Wouter De Vriendt, Jean-Marc Nollet, Georges Gilkinet and Stefaan Van Hecke and Mrs Evita Willaert) concerning the registration in an online public transparency register of contacts with lobbyists on the purchase of military equipment, No. 965/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-19-54-plenair-ip035x.u113	- the legislative proposal (Mr Ahmed Laaouej, Mrs Fabienne Winckel, Mr Jean-Marc Delizée, Mrs Karine Lalieux and Mr Alain Mathot) amending the Company Code and the Law of 21 March 1991 on the reform of certain public economic enterprises, in order to limit and justify the variable remuneration of managers, No. 972/1. Sent to committee responsible for trade and economic law problems In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 18 March 2015, I also propose that you take into account: - the draft law (Ms. Muriel Gerkens, MM. Stefaan Van Hecke, Jean-Marc Nollet, Kristof Calvo and Georges Gilkinet and Ms Evita Willaert) amending the Act of 6 April 2010 on market practices and consumer protection and establishing the Advertising Regulatory Commission, No. 956/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-19-54-plenair-ip035x.u114	- the motion for a resolution (MM. Marcel Cheron, Stefaan Van Hecke, Kristof Calvo, Jean-Marc Nollet and Georges Gilkinet and Mrs Evita Willaert) to instruct the Court of Auditors to investigate the monitoring of management contracts concluded by SNCB, Infrabel and the State, No 962/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-19-54-plenair-ip035x.u115	- the bill (Mrs. Benoit Hellings, Wouter De Vriendt, Jean-Marc Nollet, Georges Gilkinet and Stefaan Van Hecke and Ms. Evita Willaert) on the registration, in an online public transparency register, of contacts with lobbyists concerning the purchase of military equipment, No. 965/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-19-54-plenair-ip035x.u116	- the proposal for a law (Mr Ahmed Laaouej, Ms Fabienne Winckel, Mr Jean-Marc Delizée, Ms Karine Lalieux and Mr Alain Mathot) amending the Code of Companies and the Act of 21 March 1991 on the reform of certain public economic enterprises, as regards the moderation and justification of the variable remuneration of managers, No 972/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-19-54-plenair-ip035x.u117	Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 19 March 2015, I also propose the legislative proposal (Mrs Benoît Friart and Bert Wollants, Mrs Leen Dierick and Mr Frank Wilrycx) to ratify the Royal Decree of 2 April 2014 laying down the detailed rules on a federal contribution intended to finance certain public service obligations and the costs associated with regulating and controlling the natural gas market, No. 974/1, to be considered. Sent to the Commission for Business, Science Policy, Education, National Scientific and Cultural Institutions, Small and Medium-sized Enterprises and Agriculture In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 19 March 2015, I also propose that you take into consideration the bill (MM. Benoît Friart and Bert Wollants, Ms Leen Dierick and Mr Frank Wilrycx) confirming the Royal Order of 2 April 2014 establishing the terms of the federal contribution for the financing of certain public service obligations and the costs related to the regulation and control of the natural gas market, No 974/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-19-54-plenair-ip035x.u118	Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-19-54-plenair-ip035x.u119	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we ask you to be able to deal with this Bill No 974/1 as a matter of urgency. It would confirm a Royal Order dated 2 April 2014 establishing the terms of the federal gas assessment. It is important that this bill can be passed before 1 April 2015 under the 1995 gas law and also under the constitutional principle of tax legality.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-19-54-plenair-ip035x.u120	This is a plea that I consider convincing. On the other hand, what is less convincing is the total absence of members of the government. Is there still a government here? [[Brouhahaha]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-19-54-plenair-ip035x.u121	Either the master of the shadow assumes and goes in the place of the government, or we call an apparent member of the government. Choose! A former member, there's an idea!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-19-54-plenair-ip035x.u122	Madame Onkelinx, voici Mme Marghem. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that we give our opinion on the urgency requested by Mr Friart in the usual way.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-19-54-plenair-ip035x.u123	As agreed at the Conference of Presidents, the Business Committee will meet in the Europe room immediately after the plenary session.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-19-54-plenair-ip035x.u124	The Government requested urgent procedure under Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when the draft law on improving employment (No. 960/1). The government requested urgency in accordance with Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure at the time of the introduction of the Employment Promotion Bill (No. 960/1).
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-19-54-plenair-ip035x.u125	Mr. Chairman, could I know the government's motivation?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-19-54-plenair-ip035x.u126	Mr President, this is not the way it can go. We debated this text at length until very late Tuesday. Deciding on urgency after debate on the text is problematic but, above all, it is not possible to decide on an index jump in the urgency and without having asked the formal opinion of the social partners or of the National Labour Council. We oppose this way of working, which is a fundamental break with the way in which we work in Belgium on all issues of pay and social security. That the government does not consider it necessary to argue on its request for an emergency is particularly problematic and in the image of the way in which social dialogue is considered in this country!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-19-54-plenair-ip035x.u127	Mr President, Marco Van Hees and I know our first parliamentary experience. We have always been told that when the executive asks for urgency, it has to justify it with reasons that are not valid! At the moment, however, I must note, Mr President, that I have not yet heard a single valid reason justifying this request for urgency. So I'm going to say it clearly. If the executive wants us to vote here the urgency with the secret aim of being able to impose in the coming weeks an increase in VAT, which will be completely blocked at the level of wages thanks precisely to this accelerated index jump, if the aim here is to short-circuit the social partners (there is not a small consultation that has been conducted with the National Labour Council), I believe that there is a serious breach of political and social democracy in this country!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-19-54-plenair-ip035x.u128	I give the floor to the government. Excuse me, Mrs Temmerman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-19-54-plenair-ip035x.u129	Mr President, you have overlooked me from the outset, as with Mrs Onkelinx. I understand that I am often overlooked, Mr President, but this is the crown.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-19-54-plenair-ip035x.u130	That seems to me to be your particular problem, Mrs Temmerman. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-19-54-plenair-ip035x.u131	Mr President, could you repeat that last point?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-19-54-plenair-ip035x.u132	Mrs. Temmerman, you feel constantly overlooked. As far as I'm concerned, that's not true.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-19-54-plenair-ip035x.u133	Mr President, I hope that will be noted in the report.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-19-54-plenair-ip035x.u134	Congratulations.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-19-54-plenair-ip035x.u135	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to respond to my other colleagues. There are many arguments that make us wonder why this text should now be dealt with as a matter of urgency. It would also be of some courage to describe this draft law as an index jump, because that is what this is about. I am really looking forward to the government's justification for having the draft dealt with as a matter of urgency.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-19-54-plenair-ip035x.u136	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I understand that you spent the night discussing the explanations that were given by the representatives of the government who did not fail to inform you of the reason why they had presented their text urgently. It is therefore likely that you have forgotten a simple rule, that when you always repeat the same thing and spend hours reading the history of the index jump, you forget the essentials. In other words, you have obviously forgotten the essential explanations given to you. On the other hand, I understand that it does not make it easier for you for the government to assume its responsibilities and to carry out its policy on the basis of a social consultation that has taken place before. I would therefore like to remind you that this is how it works and not otherwise.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-19-54-plenair-ip035x.u137	Mrs Marghem, I understand that it is not easy for you: you were not prepared for this debate here. Indeed, we had an in-depth discussion in the Committee on Social Affairs. In substance, we have only talked about what is in this famous bill, so as not to derail external considerations. Having said that, if we got a whole series of answers about the government's objectives and priorities, we didn't get any answers about the urgency. As you know, Mrs Marghem, this year there will not be an exceedance of the pivoting index and there is therefore a need for a thorough debate in Parliament. We do not understand this urgent request. I say and I repeat very simply: explain to us your reasons. We are available 24 hours a day to discuss it. There's nothing to worry about. We are ready to work in accordance with the Rules of the House, but why this urgency, why do you want to compress the debates in Parliament? You're not answering me, Mrs. Marghem.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-19-54-plenair-ip035x.u138	Mr. Chair, I was waiting to hear the minister's justification on behalf of the government. In essence, we are still waiting and the answer has not surprised me. Because in fact, there is no justification. This government, this majority has decided to go into force. And when I hear the minister present here saying that there is no need for social consultation, since it has already taken place, I would reply to her that the CNT – I don't know if you know it, it is the National Labour Council – should indeed have been consulted on this bill. That was not the case. It is therefore again a disregard for social consultation. In essence, this passage in force allows you, within this majority, to simply inflate the torso, because you have nothing to do with the social partners, saying: "We have passed into force. The government has decided without prior consultation with the social partners." That is what you are doing with this text today, ladies and gentlemen of the majority. This does not grow up and shows how much you want tomorrow to change the model, which is a model of cooperation at the employment and economic level. We regret it and frankly, I repeat, it doesn't grow up for you!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-19-54-plenair-ip035x.u139	Mr President, as chairman of the committee, I would like to say that we have held the debate on this subject for 15 hours, without interruption, in a thorough manner and with respect for opposition and majority. Even the opposition must confess that. In substance, I would like to say that, at the beginning of their speech, the Ministers discussed in detail the reasons for the urgency of the draft law. The urgency has been invoked, because inflation is getting more important in February and because there is a risk of spillovers in a number of sectors, requiring urgent intervention by Parliament and the government, in order to bring the index jump into force once and for all. That is the reason for the urgency which the government has put forward. Everyone in the committee has been able to take note of the urgency and everyone has been able to question the government about it in detail. Anyone who wants to deny that, I recommend that another fifteen hours be debated with me in committee. Then I'll explain it again. That is the reality, ladies and gentlemen! I do know, however, that for the opposition, competitiveness is a subordinate item. It's not for the government. I would therefore like to expressly support the government's question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-19-54-plenair-ip035x.u140	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there have indeed been 15 hours of in-depth debate on the substance. This was useful in the context of this particularly important issue, which affects the purchasing power of all workers and pensioners. Minister Peeters wanted to motivate the emergency. I repeat some of his arguments, which are all false. First, index jump is necessary to reduce wage disadvantage. That's not true! There's already a reversed gap. This is confirmed by the Central Economic Council. This has been confirmed in previous hearings. Secondly, there is the possible inequity between workers, among the 200,000 workers who could be indexed in April. On the one hand, retroactivity is foreseen in the project at the end of March. On the other hand, when it is voted – if it is voted – there will be a 2% suspension. They will be victims of this 2 per cent like the others. Thirdly, it is said that there is a need for clarity in wage negotiations. They can be done beyond this. Finally, other measures must be taken as quickly as possible. We can pass the other measurements without passing the index jump. In view of all this and given the importance of this issue of index jumping, I believe that this deserves a real debate, consultation with the social partners and hearings to know the real impact. All this was requested at the first reading. The majority did not want it. We are now in the midst of the urgency of the second reading. Leave us at least ten days! Don't ask for five days! Ten days is still not asking too much!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-19-54-plenair-ip035x.u141	Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Marghem's argument that this was debated in committee is not valid in relation to the question asked: does the plenary decide, yes or no, the urgency? She's the one who's competent. The Minister of Employment and the Minister of Social Affairs must be here to explain to us that their objective is that by 1 April, the wages of 200,000 workers in the textile, distribution and hairdressing sectors should be reduced before that of all other workers. Since that is the intention of the majority! Gentlemen and ladies of the majority, when wage indexation is not applied from the moment prices have risen, workers are withdrawn from wages. And that is what is at stake. Let Mr Peeters come here to explain why the government and the majority want this urgency, and that they take on their actions! This is what we are asking for in this debate by asking for an opinion from the social partners through the National Labour Council, by asking for hearings, as is to be done on such an important matter. And in doing so, we do not lose sight of the essentials, Mrs Marghem. We are on the main issue: the financing of social security and the incomes of the workers to whom you are hard-earned. I would also like to say to Mr. Van Quickenborne that in terms of competitiveness and job creation, alternatives exist. Where is the government tax shift? It is on this subject that you must ask for urgency! We're waiting for him!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-19-54-plenair-ip035x.u142	Mrs Marghem, I do not understand the government's haste, and obviously neither do you, since you are not able to justify it. You just confirmed that you didn't have to justify the emergency. Why did you ask for it? If you have decided to bleed the workers to give gifts to your friends the rich and the bosses, you have decades to do so. Indeed, in the years 82-83, the government of the time, in which your training was already involved, decided two index jumps that workers still pay today. They have paid 60,000 euros for their entire career! So you have all the time to bleed the workers. The urgency is not justified!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-19-54-plenair-ip035x.u143	Mr President, I believe that some Members have missed part of the discussions in committee. Fortunately, there is still the report in which everything has been well recorded. My fellow Members received the draft report yesterday in their mailbox. On page 7 of the second pdf document, it is clear: "First of all, the Minister clarifies that the urgency procedure was requested for the parliamentary examination. Then he gives four or five reasons why that is necessary. So you should look at the report to see that it is very clearly motivated. If that's what you want, I'd like to quote that passage.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-19-54-plenair-ip035x.u144	Mr President, I have the impression that we are reliving the debate two days ago. The minister made it clear why the government was calling for urgency today. Mr Van Quickenborne also recalled them, in particular the risk of discrimination between the various sectors. It should be remembered, however, that the text does not only include measures relating to index jumps but also to flexibility in the construction sector, to the fight against the wage gap between men and women (it is urgent to add four months to enable this law to be adapted), to the sanctions in the field of training. All these reasons were explained in committee. Mr. Van Hees was not present, neither was his colleague. They were tired, they confessed to us! So they don't know how to remember it, but they can read the report. The reasons are well indicated. Finally, I would like to say that there is an urgent need to take steps to restore the competitiveness of our businesses. This must transcend the debates in this House. Mr President, I call on you to vote urgently as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-19-54-plenair-ip035x.u145	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we have already had a number of debates here that touch on what we are discussing. If there is a problem with budgetary control and it is indicated that a serious tax shift is being carried out during budgetary control, it is inconceivable that it is said that there is still time to do so. Actually, the answer was that the tax shift will be implemented if it fits. It is said that there are problems with competitiveness and that therefore an index jump must be approved immediately. Well, there are much better alternatives. We have mentioned this dozens of times. A lesson can also be learned today in the fight against fraud, but there is plenty of time. However, it cannot be fast enough to take money immediately from the working Fleming, who you are always talking about. This government is indeed there for the rich. This is now being proven.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-19-54-plenair-ip035x.u146	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you of the rule of the Rules of Procedure, which provides for a five-minute debate on the urgency of each group. There is therefore a limited time left. Mr Calvo has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-19-54-plenair-ip035x.u147	Mr President, I did not intend to take the floor, but I do not want to ignore Mr Vercamer's outstretched hand. Mr Vercamer, I suggest that you read the report. I suggest that you quote from the report. I've been there 15 hours. The reason why the majority, which apparently supports Mr Vercamer with great enthusiasm, wants to chase the draft manu militari through Parliament, is that CD&V, Open Vld, MR and N-VA want to chase down the index jump of two hundred thousand employees as quickly as possible. So I would very much like you to quote from the report, because then it will be clear that Mr Peeters has defended the index jump for 15 hours and has indeed said that it must now be driven by Parliament, otherwise wages will evolve with purchasing power in certain sectors. That's why you're defending the urgency. So I would very much like you to read out the report, because then we will suddenly be able to get rid of your ambition to be the social face of the government. Mr President, there is now a debate on how the index jump works. As President-in-Office of the Council, I think you should look at the situation. It's not a good way to work. Mr Van Quickenborne, as chairman of the committee, you missed an opportunity to be a committee chairman for all Members of Parliament and for all citizens of our country. You acted there as committee chairman of the majority. As far as the report is concerned, I would like to point out that our group has held out its hand. We said that we would not ask for the second reading if there was an opinion from the National Labour Council and the social partners were heard, but the majority opted for the strategy of confrontation. You'll get it, too. That is why we will not support the urgency, but we will ask for a second reading, and we will ask for the opinion of the Council of State, so that we can stop the index jump, which you, Mr Vercamer, want to push down the throats of all workers without social consultation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-19-54-plenair-ip035x.u148	Mr President, I would not have wanted to deprive Mr Clarinval of an answer! First of all, with regard to presences and absences, as a group of this assembly, we have no lesson to learn from anyone. We have two Members and we are present in many committees. As many colleagues know, today the two Members that we are are cutting down the work of several Members. Your colleagues in the MR, the N-VA and the CD&V are complaining, and they are very much complaining about always seeing us in committee. So we have no lessons to learn at this level. [[Brouhahaha]] Ladies and gentlemen of the right, the truth hurts! You don't like to hear it! I also refer to the Rules of the House. We were informed that a second reading was requested. Our fraction therefore indicated that it would take ten days to do so. However, the executive constantly calls into question the basic rules of this Parliament. Why can't you wait another five days for a second reading? Because there is the question of certain sectors, but above all – this is what scares you all in this Parliament – you feel that the social movement is rekindling, and you want to stifle this social resistance in the egg! Know that your passage in force – I felt it very strong this morning – is experienced as a provocation by all right-wing parties towards the social movement. Don't be surprised if, on April 22, you find yourself facing a social movement like you've never seen before. It will be even stronger than the one that took place in the first half of last year. This is a strong warning to all right-wing parties in this Parliament!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-19-54-plenair-ip035x.u149	I would suggest that we speak on this question. I propose that we take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-19-54-plenair-ip035x.u150	The Government also requested urgent treatment under Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when the draft law on security of supply in the field of energy (No. 967/1). The government also requested urgency pursuant to Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure at the time of the tabling of the bill on energy security provisions (No. 967/1). I would suggest that we speak on this question. I propose that we take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-19-54-plenair-ip035x.u151	This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Committee on External Relations on 11 March 2015. This interview was held at the public meeting of the External Relations Commission of 11 March 2015. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 025/1): a motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr. Stéphane Crusnière; A simple motion was tabled by Messrs. Richard Miller and Tim Vandenput. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 025/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mr Stéphane Crusnière; A simple motion was tabled by Mr Richard Miller and Mr Tim Vandenput. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-19-54-plenair-ip035x.u152	Mr President, on 5 February last, in the absence of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, the majority adopted a resolution calling on the government to recognise the State of Palestine as a State and a subject of international law, a recognition unfortunately conditioned at a time which will be considered the most opportune on the basis of three elements which I must not remind you today. By making Palestine's recognition conditional on the fulfilment of these conditions, as the majority did, Belgium is definitely losing its pioneering role in the search for a peace solution in the Middle East and in the two-State solution. It is probably a resolution taken to throw a smokescreen opening the door only to an illusory recognition. Concerned about the development of the current situation in the region, I therefore asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, last week in the Committee on External Relations, about the timing of the implementation of this resolution by the majority, which was therefore talking about an opportune moment and which gave the government full powers of appreciation. In his response, the minister defended the importance of the political dialogue between the two peoples, which, in his view, is the only way to achieve a sovereign Palestinian State living in peace next to Israel. He also confirmed his conviction of the role that the European Union must play in the peace process and in the search for a bi-State solution. However, he believes that the current development of the situation unfortunately does not bring us closer to the opportune time for recognition of Palestine. Mr Reynders also spoke of very divergent views within the European Union on the peace process. It can therefore be concluded that there will be no time for the implementation of the resolution and the recognition of the State of Palestine. On this basis, Mr President, but also on the basis of the statements of the one who will have to form a government in Israel, this will never be the right time. Indeed, it is in fact a diplomatic and political choice, which this majority refuses to formally operate. This government makes its foreign policy dependent on other events at the expense of adopting a clear choice. Our foreign policy is becoming attentist. I conclude, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-19-54-plenair-ip035x.u153	Mr Crusnière, you had two minutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-19-54-plenair-ip035x.u154	Mr President, I have not exhausted them yet. I agree with you on the importance of maintaining European pressure in order to be able to find a solution, but this European pressure cannot be used as a pretext for not assuming the role that the Foreign Minister should assume. Belgium's pressure is necessary and Benjamin Netanyahu's recent statements support us in this position. What you are doing today is asking Europe to act and maintain some pressure on Israel without taking such a position at national level. Double standard when it is a national jurisdiction or a flight of responsibility? Therefore, Mr President, in conclusion, let us stop turning around the pot and vote for the immediate and unconditional recognition of the State of Palestine by voting on my motion, which is the text which was voted on in the Brussels Parliament and, I would remind you, which was supported by the CD&V.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-19-54-plenair-ip035x.u155	Mr President, it is five to twelve with regard to the two-state solution. The resolution on Palestine by the majority speaks of the most appropriate time. Well, that's for us now. Following the elections and the results already known, the previous and future Prime Minister Netanyahu has already made it clear that there will be no Palestinian State with him. In addition, he is building a coalition with parties that are only committed to the expansion of Israeli settlements. This means that the Oslo peace process, together with the two-state solution, will be completely abandoned. How does this government intend to deal with that? It is now time to recognise unconditionally an independent Palestinian state, alongside Israel. Only in this way will we contribute to the peaceful development of the two-state solution. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the most appropriate time for the majority of us to speak in its resolution. Or does the government intend to wait until reality on the ground, with even more settlements, whatever one plans to do, and even more settlers make a two-state solution completely impossible? My group is asking the government to send a clear signal to the future Israeli government that we will not tolerate the expansion of illegal settlements. This would also encourage the moderate Israeli and Palestinian forces who are ready to resume their negotiations. With the resolution, the majority has decided to wait for how long? President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). The elections have provided clarity. There will be no peace in the Middle East.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-19-54-plenair-ip035x.u156	Mrs Pehlivan, your speaking time has really been used up.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-19-54-plenair-ip035x.u157	So I'm asking you to make a courageous decision, it's time.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-19-54-plenair-ip035x.u158	It's about time, absolutely.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-19-54-plenair-ip035x.u159	Mr President, it takes two minutes of courage that this majority does not have. On the motion for a recommendation, we shall vote unambiguously, unlike the resolution we voted in this Parliament a few weeks ago. We must recognize Palestine now. You didn't. We want to recognize it now. We will therefore vote on this motion.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-19-54-plenair-ip035x.u160	Start of voting / Start of the vote. Did everyone vote and check their vote? / Did everyone vote and check his voice? End of voting / End of vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-19-54-plenair-ip035x.u161	Yes 82 Yes No. 54 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 136 Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-19-54-plenair-ip035x.u162	Mr President, since the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Employment and the Economy has arrived, perhaps we could now have a real dialogue? He ran. He made an effort. He could be rewarded! So let's have this debate!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-19-54-plenair-ip035x.u163	He did what he could! I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-19-54-plenair-ip035x.u164	This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Committee on the Interior, General Affairs and the Civil Service on 11 March 2015. This interview was held at the public meeting of the Committee for the Interior, General Affairs and Public Administration of 11 March 2015. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 029/1): a motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr. Éric Thiébaut; A simple motion was tabled by Ms Katja Gabriëls, Ms Veerle Heeren, Ms Kattrin Jadin and Mr Peter Buysrogge. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 029/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mr Éric Thiébaut; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Katja Gabriels, Mr Veerle Heeren, Mr Kattrin Jadin and Mr Peter Buysrogge. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-19-54-plenair-ip035x.u165	Mr President, be assured, I won't be very long. I wanted to say that throughout the country, firefighters are expressing concern about how the reform of fire services is taking place. I am thinking in particular of volunteer firefighters, who still number 12,000 and who account for 70% of all firefighters. In this context, I have tabled a motion for a recommendation in the Committee on the Interior so that the Minister of the Interior may take several measures. First of all, I ask him to establish a realistic timetable for the implementation of this reform, as provided for in the government agreement. I then ask him to produce the necessary orders to guarantee that the volunteer firefighters can combine this activity with their professional and family life. It is also a matter of ensuring their representation in all consultative bodies, in particular in the areas that are in the process of being established. I also hope that it will continue the funding efforts of the previous government to reach the distribution. [[Brouhahaha]] Mr President, I would like to be brief, but I expect a minimum of attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-19-54-plenair-ip035x.u166	You're absolutely right, Mr. Thiébaut.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-19-54-plenair-ip035x.u167	Thank you very much for the respect of the parliamentarian! Finally, I ask him to continue the funding effort to reach the 50/50 set out in the 2007 law and to quickly put in place a monitoring tool to clearly assess the additional costs of the fire reform.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-19-54-plenair-ip035x.u168	Start of voting / Start of the vote. Did everyone vote and check their vote? / Did everyone vote and check his voice? End of voting / End of vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-19-54-plenair-ip035x.u169	Yes 81 Yes No. 53 No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 135 Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses. (MM. Paul-Olivier Delannois and Stéphane Crusnière voted no) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-19-54-plenair-ip035x.u170	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 3) Yes 132 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 4 Abstensions Total 136 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be sent to the Senate as a draft. (949/5) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be forwarded as a bill to the Senate. (949/5)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-19-54-plenair-ip035x.u171	Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-19-54-plenair-ip035x.u172	We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for Thursday 26 March 2015. We must proceed to the approval of the agenda of the sitting on Thursday, 26 March 2015. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 26 March 2015 at 2.15 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Thursday, 26 March 2015, at 2.15 p.m.
