ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-16-54-plenair-ip065x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-16-54-plenair-ip065x.u2	Mr. Chair, Minister, the crime figures are pretty reassuring. I wanted to say that from the outset following the announcement made yesterday by the federal police. This confirms, if necessary, the need for an effective field presence of our police officers. Ladies and gentlemen, it has been twenty years since we asked for more blue on the streets. I believe that all political parties have included it in their electoral programmes. For ten years, we have been talking about removing police officers from their subordinate duties and re-focusing them on their priorities of maintaining order and protecting our populations. Your predecessor, Minister Joëlle Milquet, had made good progress on this subject. A first listing of the non-essential tasks of the police had been carried out on his initiative. Indeed, we must point out that the previous government has worked on the subject of outsourcing certain policing tasks. Unfortunately, perhaps for lack of time, this could not be implemented in a timely manner. But this useful work could not be left empty, and it was natural that the current government should plan to continue with it by including it in the parliamentary agreement. Nothing less, nothing more, but you, Minister of the Interior, are moving forward! There is no question here of privatizing the police, nor of making philosophical choices. I will allow myself to say it simply, and I will say it more in my capacity as mayor than as a Member of Parliament, those who say it forget a little bit quickly that they have participated in this work, which is now being implemented. The questions are simple. Do you need police to bring a wallet back? Is there a need for police officers to manage the transport of detainees? Is it necessary for police officers to supervise folk and cultural events or to facilitate the passage of cycling races? No, what is needed – and the MR claims it – is the effectiveness of police work and it does not have to do with philosophical choices. It's pragmatism, it's not ideology. Minister, you have conducted consultations and discussions with a number of stakeholders. The work is now over. My questions about the work that has been done are as follows. Does the report you received seem complete and ready for debate? What will be your methodology in the coming weeks and months? You had announced the outcome of the work for the summer. We're there and you're perfectly respecting the timing. What's the schedule for the next round? I understand that this work has dealt with expanding the skills of peacekeepers. Can you tell us more about expanding the skills of these increasingly important players in our prevention policy?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-16-54-plenair-ip065x.u3	Mr President, Deputy Prime Minister, if I hear my colleague Pivin, this is not about privatisation. I do not know what else is called the fact that a function that is performed by public officials is now performed by private agents. Perhaps a new term will have to be invented? Nevertheless, privatization poses a fundamental and fundamental problem to us. We have discussed this in the debate on Greece with our Finance Minister, whom I will call Milton Van Overtveldt. The problem of privatization, including of the police, is that we find the character of an anti-social policy with democratic stakes. The antisocial aspect is clear. Privatization usually allows some firms to make profit. Where does this profit come from? At a higher price than expected – and I wonder if the services granted to the private sector are not likely to become more expensive. In addition, the service rendered is less. Finally, wages and working conditions are deteriorating. I have the impression, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, that you are openly saying that a police officer's salary is too high and that they should be replaced by people whose salary would be lower. It also poses a democratic problem. Indeed, the police are a sovereign function of the State. Starting to privatize it is a serious problem in terms of democracy. The risk of slippage increases when non-police officers perform duties that are currently assigned to police officers. They are trained to respect the law. If we embark on this slope of privatization of certain police functions, where are we going to stop? Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, is there an agreement in principle of all the formations that make up the government in this respect? Is your goal to dispose of underpaid sub-police officers? Do you think the police are overpaid? What do you say to the unions that have already denounced attempts to privatise certain police missions in the past? How do you intend to respond to the democratic problems that will arise?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-16-54-plenair-ip065x.u4	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in the numerical communication that was made yesterday, and which is taken up in the press this morning, you were telling us, Mr Minister, that a decrease in crime, all events combined, of 3.7% was recorded compared to 2013. It is in Brussels that this decrease is the most notable for 2014 with 7.8%. This trend is also evident throughout Western Europe. You took the opportunity to thank the police and stress that the police presence on the street is, in your opinion, important. Even though, as you yourself have acknowledged, these figures must be taken with caution, it must be recognised that these results represent a positive development, on a daily basis, for our fellow citizens. Conversely, the announcements and the communication of the plan that followed the disclosure of these figures raise a great deal of concern for me. Indeed, you are talking about cost and performance analyses, business profitability, privatisation of certain services. So I expected you to announce the creation of a new company, namely the SA Police or the NV Politie. I even expected you to tell us about changes in turnover, solvency ratios, market shares, or even returns to invested capital. For environmentalists, the state must maintain the monopoly of human security and public order missions on ethical and ethical issues, as well as on efficiency. Given this context, Minister, my questions are as follows. First, is this plan a kind of intermediate step towards greater privatization of police services? What do you think are the basic tasks of the police that can never be outsourced? Second, in the plan, you differentiate between essential and non-essential tasks. How do you define them? For example, the transfer of persons (illegal, minors, mentally ill) or the replacement of prison guards are considered non-essential tasks. Do you really think that people who are not trained in these tasks can replace the police? Thirdly, how will the monitoring of the services to be carried out by the private sector be organised? Fourthly, you are aware that delegation of tasks and privatization have a cost. Have you estimated the budgetary impact of your plan?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-16-54-plenair-ip065x.u5	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to repeat what I replied on 25 June last in a debate on the key tasks of the police. The subject is not new. This debate began ten years ago without success or audacity. It was not possible at that time to make sometimes difficult decisions and to decide certain points. However, it seems to me essential to achieve something concrete today. In the current socio-economic context and taking into account a comprehensive and integrated approach, it is high time that we had a modern police service that operates effectively, in partnership with all the players in the security chain. I make the difference between police and non-police duties. The latter must no longer be provided by the police, but they must be entrusted to other actors more in a position to manage such missions. I repeat, the aim is to define what are, in our modern and present society, the key tasks of today's police force and, above all, to determine which are not. The aim is to refocus the police on their essential tasks and to free them from certain administrative and non-police tasks. With this reflection on the core tasks and tasks of the police, I want to strengthen police capabilities and direct them to the priorities of the police in the years to come. Two objectives are highlighted. The first is the strengthening of the integrated functioning of the police, both at the federal and local police levels. The second objective is to increase the police strike force in the areas of security identified as a priority by our Government. With regard to outsourcing and privatization, two considerations remain. First, they must lead to improvement and cannot have an adverse effect on the operational work of the police. Secondly, the operation must have a budgetary benefit effect in terms of means. Impacts in terms of budget and employment are therefore also taken into account. Where are we now? We have read the experts' report. I then went on a round of consultations with the federal police, the local police, the associations of cities and municipalities, the private sector and others. As a result of this consultation, we adapted the report of the expert group. Currently, we are engaged in political dialogue with the various partners in our government. As such, I will be able to submit the report as soon as possible and the results of this consultation to the government. Mr President, in September I will be ready to present the outcome of this work to Parliament. Mr. Pivin, the PAS tasks are analysed. The task force's work is focused solely on the tasks and tasks of the police and not yet on the tasks of the peacekeepers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-16-54-plenair-ip065x.u6	Minister, thank you for your answers and for the clarification I was expecting because we do not have the texts. Outsourcing is not a Belgian creation. This has existed in France, England, Italy and Spain for many years. In my view, ladies and gentlemen, which you are speaking on the subject too, reducing the task of the police is not to privatize but to collectivise. It will make you smile! But if you really take things at the bottom of the letter, it means giving more time, more action, more operational to the advantage of all the citizens. It's more a collectivization than a privatization. I still wanted to tell you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-16-54-plenair-ip065x.u7	I did not bring my PTB membership cards today. It'll be another time, Mr. Pivin! Minister, I remember two things from your remarks. On the one hand, you did not define what non-police tasks were for you. If I understand correctly, you'll do it later. On the other hand, you are talking about a budgetary objective. So, if I'm your logic, for you, privatizing amounts to reducing wages to get a budget gain. Defining the missions that will be privatized is not trivial. I am thinking of something that is quoted in the press but that you do not confirm, so it is difficult to discuss it. The police are now accompanying bailiffs in situations deemed delicate. That is, in particular, what you are aiming for. I am thinking of a particular case, when the bailiffs intervene with a picket to break it, by presenting periodic penalty payments on order of a judge and who are accompanied by police officers. From now on, it will be a private militia or, in any case, a privatized body that will accompany them. Many drifts can be at stake. Democratic drifts are a problem. I therefore wonder whether there is also pressure from large security companies. We know you're sensitive to some lobbies. But this will be discussed again at the time of the discussion on the programme law and on the diamond tax. Minister, I ask myself the question of the actual existence of a lobby or not that would push you to this privatisation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-16-54-plenair-ip065x.u8	Minister, thank you for your answers. Quickly, three elements. First, you're talking about police tasks and non-police tasks. I think it is important for us to be able to participate in the discussion on defining these tasks. Furthermore, for non-police tasks, what about the training of officers who will perform tasks currently performed by police officers? Will budgetary resources be allocated for the training and supervision of these people? Secondly, unless I'm mistaken, you haven't really responded with regard to control. How will private sector agents be monitored if they perform public policy tasks? Thirdly, I take note that you wish to return to Parliament and to the committee. I was going to ask you, at least as far as the committee is concerned. Beyond the presentation of the plan, it would be good if we could discuss it, not just to find ourselves faced with a fait accompli. I would ask you that in September we should be able to discuss this in the Committee on the Interior.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-16-54-plenair-ip065x.u9	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday we were able to hear the statistics on crime. The figures are good and we are pleased with that. Less thefts, fewer burglaries, that's what we need to pursue. This strengthens the sense of security that citizens love so much. It may be said that security is something that everyone remains deeply committed to, and it is certainly a spearhead for our party. Those good grades shouldn't make us euphoric either. There appear to be still a number of points of interest. I will mention some of them. The figures show, for example, that it can be done even better in the areas of combating drugs, xenophobia, racism and cybercrime. Minister, I know that you are working out a plan for this. You're working hard on that. I don't doubt that. Are you going to do something about the areas that are currently less well scored, so that the figures will be better there in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-16-54-plenair-ip065x.u10	Mr Degroote, you are right to point out that the crime figures for 2014 have fallen dramatically compared to 2013. I can tell you that the figures for the first semester of this year are in the same direction in a strengthened form. If we compare the first semester of 2015 with that of 2014, there is a global decrease of 17%. I would therefore like to take advantage of this gallery to thank our policemen everywhere, in the local areas and in the federal police, for the efforts they make every day, sometimes at risk to their own bodies and members, to ensure our security. I think it is appropriate here to thank those people very much for that. To answer your question, it is clear that these crime figures are one of the sources of input for the Integrated Security Framework Paper and later the National Security Plan. That's obvious. You rightly point to a number of phenomena, some of which are new, which are rising. However, all three of them ask for their own approach. You have spoken of homophobia and racism. The number of facts has increased, and I blame that on the fact that more people, through campaigns to encourage them to report, are actually reporting. However, we are well aware that there is still a huge dark number of facts that happen daily in this area and do not get to the police. Further efforts must therefore be made to bring these facts to the surface so that we can deal with them. As far as drug crime is concerned, that's a form of fetch crime. The more people we use, the more drugs we still find and the more gangs we can roll up. It's a matter of deploying capacity. The same applies to cybercrime, a fairly new phenomenon. You know that, as stipulated in the coalition agreement and in the new organic tables for the police in the context of the reorganisation, much more capacity will be used to tackle cybercrime, because it is a very serious threat and we want to deal with it in this way.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-16-54-plenair-ip065x.u11	Thank you, Minister, for your detailed reply. Of course, I agree with your praises to our police officers. I do have two reservations. The perpetrators of cybercrime crimes are extremely inventive. Everything is going very fast in that sector too. In the KB on police training, you can decide to provide our services with the necessary luggage and training. That won't be an unnecessary luxury. With regard to the fight against drug crime, it will be important to deploy sufficient capacity. Blue on the street does work. In the efficiency exercise you are doing, I would appreciate the release of capacity for this, but we will see that in September. However, I have every confidence in it, Minister. After all, you have already travelled a beautiful course in the past eight months. I use the term "Tour de France" because we are in the period of the Tour de France. If you finish the course further in this way, you can earn a sweater. You probably won't be mad if it's a yellow sweater for you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-16-54-plenair-ip065x.u12	Minister, we have learned in the press that the unions are asking you to cancel the festivities in which the police are to participate in July 21, namely the police parade and the police village, because of a particular risk that they would incur during this demonstration. They say they asked the employer for a specific analysis about July 21. We know that since 7 January they have been subject to a special risk on all the police stations and the whole country. But it seems that by 21 July there is a specificity. They solicited their employer and only had the results of this analysis on Wednesday. It was the police prevention adviser who told them that there was indeed a special risk on the occasion of the 21st of July. Have you asked the Coordinating Body for Threat Analysis (OCAM) regarding 21 July, the risk to the police and possibly the military? What are the results of this particular analysis compared to the overall risk that exists at this time? The Prevention Advisor has issued a ruling for the Federal Police. What about local police? Was there also an analysis of this aspect of things? The federal police seem to say that this does not concern local police and that therefore local police would participate in this event with a sustained risk. What are your conclusions? Have you ever had the opportunity to meet and interact with trade unions? More generally, can you tell me whether, beyond the risk eventually confirmed by the OCAM, there is not simply a malaise due to a series of announced or ongoing reforms? I am thinking of the pensions, the optimisation that we have just discussed, the reorganization of the federal police and the abolition of the Mounted Police.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-16-54-plenair-ip065x.u13	Mrs Matz, thank you for your question. Indeed, this one is no longer relevant. At the meeting of the Senior Advisory Committee for the DIR Police Services, on 15 July 2015, the four representative trade union organisations asked the chairman of this committee to inform me of their wish not to organize the police village and not to let police officers march on 21 July. As soon as I became aware of this request, I asked the OCAM to make an analysis of the July 21 demonstration, both for the parade and for the police village, because the police, as an organization, and the various police offices are still at threat stage 3. According to OCAM, it is not listed at level 3 of the threat, but at level 2. This event being classified at level 2 and the police organization at level 3, we have taken high protection measures, more than necessary for this event. A Federal Police Prevention Advisor is not authorized to issue a terrorist threat notice. Only the OCAM is entitled to do so. If you have any concerns about this, I can confirm that the July 21 parade and the police village will take place.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-16-54-plenair-ip065x.u14	How careful, Minister! There's still one point I can't understand. In general, we are at level 3 of the threat and in case of concentration in a single place of police officers, especially in the village and in the parade, the OCAM decides on a level 2. Between a police station where 15, 20, 30 policemen can be present and a demonstration where there are several thousand, I confess that an element escapes me in the way the OCAM evaluates the threat. However, of course, we refer to his analyses. In addition, you have announced that the protection will be strengthened. Have you received confirmation that the unions would be informed of these accompanying measures? They warned that if they did not get satisfaction, they would strike. You seem to say that with this reinforcement, they will be well present. As I explained in my question, in addition to expressing this concern, the police fear a whole series of reforms. It seems that officers are not always heard as they should be in this regard. We talked about it a few minutes ago. Beyond the particular threat to their security, we should not forget the fears raised by the various police reforms.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-16-54-plenair-ip065x.u15	Exceptionally, the Minister took the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-16-54-plenair-ip065x.u16	Mrs Matz, please excuse me for intervening again, but I would like to dispel a misunderstanding. I did not say that the unions had announced that, because of the measures taken, they would participate in the parade. I explained that the police force that was mobilized for the parade and the village would be there. It's not up to the unions to decide how to organize the parade. This choice belongs to the management of the police. I'll confirm that the police will be here.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-16-54-plenair-ip065x.u17	Mr. Chairman, exceptionally, I will respond to the minister's response.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-16-54-plenair-ip065x.u18	One exception is the other!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-16-54-plenair-ip065x.u19	Mr. Chairman, it had begun well, since it is to please us that the parade will be organized. Minister, this case shows some discomfort in the police, to which we must pay attention. It is your role, not only to guarantee the safety of the public and the police on 21 July, but also to appease this deep discomfort within the federal police and the local police.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-16-54-plenair-ip065x.u20	Mr President, Minister, a historic nuclear deal was concluded with Iran a few days ago. Negotiations took place for 12 years and Iran agreed to drastically reduce its development of nuclear capacity, and to allow strict monitoring and inspections by the International Atomic Energy Agency at its nuclear facilities. In return, there is the reduction of sanctions against Iran. In this way, the country will also emerge from its diplomatic isolation. Freezing funds abroad will be released and US and EU oil embargoes will be lifted. Diplomaticly, this nuclear deal is a great success. It is also a victory of diplomacy over the tense relations between Iran and the West. It shows that world leaders manage to find each other and that they can solve shared problems and difficult situations together. It shows how political will and perpetual diplomacy can also peacefully resolve long-term conflicts. For example, there are still a number of conflicts in the Middle East, so I hope that we can learn a lot from this. It seems very important to me to be able to pay attention to this today. That is why I am asking this question, because this agreement will have a major impact on the situation and power relations in the Middle East. Iran will not only grow economically because of oil wealth. After all, many countries are already looking at Iran to conclude contracts with it and enter into trade relations with it. On a strategic level, we can see how Iran will position itself in the difficult situation of many conflicts in the Middle East. Minister, next week's Foreign Affairs Council of the European Union will discuss the nuclear deal with Iran. What position will our country take? Will there be any discussion of lifting sanctions? If so, do you have any idea what sanctions might be lifted? Secondly, Iran will play an increasingly important role in that region. It can therefore be assumed that the agreement will have a significant and significant impact on the Middle East. How do you estimate this impact on the relations in the region? Can Iran, for example, take on a certain role in the fight against IS or in the situation of the Syrian civil war?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-16-54-plenair-ip065x.u21	Mr President, Mrs Claerhout, these are many questions. Belgium has supported the negotiation process. I have been in contact with my Iranian colleague to ask for more flexibility with regard to his position. It is indeed a diplomatic success. We will be holding discussions next Monday at the European Union's Foreign Affairs Council on the nuclear agreement. We are in favour of implementing the agreement in Iran. That is the most important point. There are still several decisions to be made. First, a decision has to be made in the U.S. Congress. President Obama has the opportunity to use his right of veto in the event of a refusal by Congress and Congress has the opportunity to go against the President by a two-thirds majority. Normally, therefore, the support of the United States is possible. In this context, a decision by Iran is also needed. In addition, a new UN Security Council resolution is needed. This will be the case thanks to the different partners around the table. On Monday we will say that we need the lifting of sanctions in connection with the implementation of various control measures in Iran itself. That will be a very long process. We can start with the lifting of financial and economic sanctions. The arms embargo is another story; it may be a problem of a few years. There are also other sanctions related to the human rights situation in Iran. It's very specific. There is nothing in the agreement on human rights, but there are separate sanctions for this. As far as the Middle East is concerned, it is the same problem. I know that there is a great deal of fear, for example in Israel and Saudi Arabia, about such an agreement. The only positive answer is real implementation, real control of Iran's various commitments. A real control will perhaps allow a positive evolution throughout the region. However, it is too early to say more. We will remain vigilant. There are many positive developments possible for Syria, Yemen and Libya, but it is too early to say anything about this. First of all, the agreement must be properly implemented and a check carried out by the International Atomic Energy Agency.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-16-54-plenair-ip065x.u22	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. As you rightly say, a whole series of steps need to be taken to achieve the real implementation. Although this is a diplomatic success, I believe that many other steps will have to be taken to strengthen the link between the West and Iran. You mentioned this yourself. These include the human rights situation and internal reforms that the Iranians can give real hope for economic change. I hope that our country can continue to play a positive and supportive role in this regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-16-54-plenair-ip065x.u23	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we already knew that a concept had been invented by this government and stigmatized, that of the "unemployed fraudster". We are now turning into Molière with the "imaginary malady", i.e. the imaginary sick worker but, I believe, especially lazy, having mutuals as accomplices. It's a way of seeing them that's very stigmatizing. However, a system already existed, but with a royal decree, you have just seen it again. With this royal decree, ended volunteering as before! No more current measures, i.e. the proposal for a half-time and a suitable work station or an accompanying plan with training and support. Your royal decree makes the return to work compulsory after only two months and it is imposed by the doctor-counsel. If there is a refusal without just cause or a lack of cooperation, the penalty of - 10% is automatic and a penalty is also provided for mutuals if they are not effective enough. The PS has always said that it is agreed to encourage those who want to return to work but that their real situation must be taken into account, provided that we have real measures to encourage and reintegrate them. In this case, it seems to me, you only stigmatize workers and mutuals and you reinforce the constraints. So I come to my questions. You seem to forget an operator in history, employers. What responsibilities do employers intend to put in place? What is the extension of the guaranteed wage? Was it about extending the guaranteed wage from one to two months? Where is she? What is the content and obligations of the return-to-work plan you impose on the physician-counsel? Finally, what positive measures do you intend to put in place to promote a return to work?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-16-54-plenair-ip065x.u24	Mr. Chairman, Madam Minister, in essence, a plan to reintegrate people with disabilities into the workplace is in itself positive. I know many patients and people with disabilities who work partially, sometimes even full-time, despite their personal circumstances. But it all depends, of course, on how this reintegration plan will be implemented. I hear – you will confirm it or not – whether you want to apply a 10% penalty in case the person does not cooperate sufficiently and according to his/her abilities. What do you mean by "who wouldn't cooperate enough"? With what modalities will the abilities be defined, knowing that the personal reality of one patient to another is sometimes terribly different, whether medically or, I will not tell you, psychologically? Finally, who will judge the acceptance or not of the employer? The employer will know very well that the person is ill since it is the physician-counsel who is assigned to accompany the person in his/her reintegration plan. Minister, what about it? It is really time to make the clarity on this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-16-54-plenair-ip065x.u25	Mr President, Madam Minister, like my colleagues, I am horrified to discover, once again, a measure aimed at punishing a person whom we wanted to activate. I will allow myself a small difference from the intervention of my colleagues by stating that these activation policies do not date from today. In addition, an activation policy always leads to a sanction and exclusion of the weakest. We saw it in unemployment, we saw it in integration income and we see it today in disability. This principle must be abandoned in order to adopt a philosophy of accompaniment and adaptation of career ends and working conditions. It is in this sense that I would like to intervene, in particular by highlighting the fact that it is again women who will be particularly targeted by such measures that affect income. We are faced with a government policy that extends careers, reduces the use of early retirement, reduces opportunities for career interruption and time credit, penalizes part-time work, increases work flexibility and facilitates overtime. There has been a 25% increase in long-term stress-related illnesses among older workers. There is also a situation where women at the end of their careers are disabled. Minister, how do you explain such a policy and effects? In addition, you are facing an INAMI management committee that cannot accept such weakest measures. The chairman of the same management committee had already said, in 2013, that longer careers increase the rate of disability, especially among women.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-16-54-plenair-ip065x.u26	Mr President, Mr Massin, Mrs Fonck, Mrs Gerkens, I think we need to explain the contents of the reintegration plan before your tension increases too much! The multidisciplinary reintegration plan is developed for the beneficiary for whom reintegration is possible and is one of the medical opportunities. Together with the occupational physician, the paramedical team and possibly with the participation of the attending physician, the medical consultant examines with the beneficiary the possibilities for the long-term patient. In this context, the patient's contribution, what he wants and can still do, is essential. My starting point is therefore a model of consultation. The reintegration plan therefore introduces several new discussion meetings to address the reintegration process. These meetings are different in nature from the normal disability control process. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the current penalty laid down by law in the case of non-collaboration at these monitoring meetings is equivalent to the whole of the compensation, in accordance with Article 134(2) of the Coordinated Law on Compulsory Health Care and Allowances Insurance. Since these rules seemed exaggerated to me in the context of reintegration, I limited the possible reduction in the amount of the allowance to 10 per cent. In addition, I have defined a strict framework for the possibility of implementing this reduction: if the beneficiary does not have a valid reason for his refusal, if he has already received a written summons for acceptance of the proposed plan, if a person has not given his consent to the plan within four weeks – there are a few cases. The measure is not based on budgetary concerns but on an effective reintegration route. A measure should only be possible for those who have a clear lack of willingness to cooperate. In addition, the reintegration route has already been discussed on several occasions in the National Labour Council and the management committee of INAMI, where the social partners participate in the discussions. Employers, unions and insurers have been consulted and support the principle of the reintegration plan. I also visited Volvo in Ghent where, since 2009, we are already doing this kind of reintegration. This morning, I read in a newspaper that the unions are concerned about the possible violation of the sick worker's privacy, as the employer would be aware of the person's illness. I can tell you, that's not true! That can never be the case. The electronic exchange of data that I plan to support this plan allows only for the exchange of medical data between healthcare providers. The employer receives just a signal of mutuality indicating whether or not a reintegration route into the old job is part of the solution. In this way, the employer is also involved in the process.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-16-54-plenair-ip065x.u27	Madam Minister, with all your good will, unfortunately, you do not convince me at all. Really not at all! First, you say that the sanction is weak, that before it was exaggerated, that you reduced it and that you established a strict framework. Except before that, it was voluntary. Now it's mandatory. So you're clearly lying to us. Secondly, the valid reason is not determined. Thirdly, on the written summons, we agree, but not within four weeks. On what basis? You're talking about a plan, but I see that it will be systematic checks, with the doctor-counsel, the attending doctor. All of this is activation control. Where is the employer and its possible obligation to offer suitable work? Nowhere! Where is the employer's obligation to take action and invest? Nowhere! You finally say, "No, it's not budget." How do you expect us to believe you? It's stigmatization. I told you. Molière's imaginary disease is really what you think! You say the unemployed are fraudsters. Now you come to say that the sick are lazy!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-16-54-plenair-ip065x.u28	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. You're talking about something that's old. But this reintegration plan dates from the December 2014 program law, which came into force in January 2015. You didn't brag about it when we discussed it in Parliament. I quote: "These measures are a source of hope for people with disabilities, who are more likely to be able to return to employment." It is true, but at that time you did not boast that you were going to impose a penalty on these people if they did not fold and if they had not cooperated sufficiently, with all the blurry that this entails. Minister, you choose the stick policy, while an accompanying and return to work approach is indeed positive for the sick and the disabled. You confuse reform with brutality. I think that's unfortunate!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-16-54-plenair-ip065x.u29	Minister, you had the choice, and you still have, to focus on adapting workplaces, allocating working time, supporting people, improving the role, attitudes, well-being at work, but also strengthening the links between health actors. You had the choice to focus on this to allow people who have been sick for a long time to return to work, which is desirable for them when they have the capacity to do so. But you chose the sanction. We know that these sanctions will particularly concern women, older women, workers with difficult careers. It is in these categories that we see the increase in the rate of long-term disability. It is these workers who will be the most targeted by your actions when they have the least ability to return to a workplace where adaptation is not a priority in this government's policies.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-16-54-plenair-ip065x.u30	Mr President, Minister, the budgetary negotiations are starting. It's the classic period. I read in the newspapers that many people and many fellow Members are looking at you, especially your sacoche. We are looking for resources, and this is not evident in an economically difficult period. We need to save money or raise additional resources. Figures from Assuralia, the professional association of insurance companies, show that private insurers use two thirds of the funds they collect in hospitalisation insurance to cover costs. These costs are mainly related to supplements, dental care, glasses, lenses, etc. This means that one euro out of three is stuck with administrative costs, commissions and, of course, also with profits for shareholders. Test-Buy also made that exercise once. This showed that 5.4 million Belgians pay over 300 euros per year for their hospitalisation insurance. I make a comparison because it is often used the other way around. The administrative costs of health insurance, better known as the overhead costs, are only 3%. That's ten times cheaper than the cost in the private sector. I read in the newspapers that they want to save mainly on that 3 %. In the hospitalisation insurance of the mutualities, 13 to 15% of the premiums are used for administrative costs. That's half the private. So it could be cheaper. The hospitalization insurance is too expensive. In committee, my colleague Ann Vanheste asked your colleague, Minister Peeters, whether they were prepared to increase hospitalisation insurance through the medical index. The answer was yes. I would like you to ask your colleague to ask the insurance companies for the effort that we are asking of all the working citizens of this country, namely no index adjustment. I also have a positive alternative. Wouldn't it be better if, with the resources we can save in the private sector, you installed a general hospitalisation insurance for all people, so that everyone is insured for health care. The health care system has to make sure the wallet doesn't get sick, doesn't it? This is a transparent and simple system, it is for everyone and it is cheaper. That's a real proposal for a real change. Would you please look into that? Do you want to have an audit done? Are you willing to do that? Would you like to ask the insurers, together with Minister Peeters, not to index?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-16-54-plenair-ip065x.u31	Mrs. De Coninck, my purse must be as big as yours when you were Minister of Work. In this respect, therefore, we can agree with each other. I note that the figures quoted in the press refer to the costs associated with the provision of hospitalisation insurance by private insurers. I must point out that I am only competent for hospitalisation insurance offered by the sickness funds. The press quoted ratios of the administrative costs of the private insurance companies and compared them with the administrative costs of the sickness funds. The administrative costs of the sickness funds for the compulsory sickness and invalidity insurance are indeed lower, but there are differences between them. Apples were compared to pears. Firstly, for the private insurance companies, the ratio is calculated on the basis of the contributions received, for the sickness funds, on the basis of health care expenditure. So the basis of comparison is not the same. Secondly, compulsory health insurance amounts to EUR 24 billion on an annual basis. The turnover of private hospitalisation insurance is 1 billion. So there can also be a certain scale effect. Thirdly, compulsory health insurance has a high degree of standardisation. The extended application of the third-payer account is an example of this. This allows more automation and more efficient processing. In short, the two types of insurance are based on a different business model and there is also a substantial difference in coverage. As far as my intentions are concerned, I want to preserve the current system, which actually consists of three complementary layers. Firstly, there is compulsory sickness and invalidity insurance, which must continue to ensure maximum accessibility, affordability and quality of care. Secondly, there is the system of the additional benefits of each sickness fund. Thirdly, any citizen who so wishes can take out hospitalisation insurance, from his health insurance fund or from a private company. I'll leave the system as it is.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-16-54-plenair-ip065x.u32	Madam Minister, with all due permission, we are often asked here to drop taboos and look at a number of things with a fresh eye to change. You yourself say that some can work cheaper. Health insurance can do this through standardisation and automation. Why can't we apply that? It is a proposal that can earn money and actually achieve more goals, namely an accessible, quality health care for all. I got it. You are very critical of the health insurance funds. That's right. I supported the request for an inquiry into this matter. I have the impression that you have absolutely no critical sense for those private institutions, which are going to run with 30% of the resources.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-16-54-plenair-ip065x.u33	Mr President, Madam Minister, a report by the Federal Centre of Expertise has dealt with the problem of hospitalisation at home and refers to certain structures existing outside Belgium. However, structures do exist in our country, even if they are not officially recognised. Indeed, the ASBL Aremis, which is, in a way, a pilot project, already exists for 28 years and has a very leading staff in this type of hospitalization. I would like to draw attention here to the importance of the latter. Through home-based hospitalization, patients with severe pathology, whether adults or children, can, with the consent of the medical profession, stay at home surrounded by their families while taking advantage of the treatment they need. I am thinking in particular of chemotherapy treatment, complex replacement of certain dressings and intravenous treatment. It is therefore a question of very specific pathologies. Madam Minister, I know that you are anxious to have good medicine in Belgium, but also to reduce the cost of social security. In my view, this method of hospitalization can meet a number of needs or requests, at a lower cost. In fact, nurses who work at home can only charge for specific acts provided for in the nomenclature of health benefits. Minister, in my view, it must be possible to recognize this type of hospitalization. Have you ever contacted INAMI for this recognition within a specific framework? Would it not be appropriate to provide for a daily package to cover all nursing benefits, whether it is travel between the hospital and the patient's home, telephone contacts, consultations with other physicians, the time nurses spend with patients each day, etc.- Is that what you're saying?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-16-54-plenair-ip065x.u34	Mrs Caprasse, thank you for your question. As part of the reform project on hospital financing, we are looking for alternative ways of organizing to avoid or reduce the use of expensive hospital infrastructure. I will have it examined through pilot projects for a period of two years. Last week, I called on the sector to inform me of promising themes around which pilot projects could be developed. Stakeholders – hospitals, midwives, home nurses, treating physicians – will have until September 6 to propose themes. Secondly, I will grant the violins between the ad hoc concertation group on hospital financing, including the cupola organizations, doctors' unions and mutual societies, and my administration and INAMI. Home-based hospitalization is certainly one of the topics that will be addressed. I have already received several suggestions in this regard. Apart from the slightest use of hospital infrastructure, the possibility for the patient to be treated in a family environment, in any case more familiar, certainly offers added value. This is certainly the case for the chronic patient, who regularly needs care. We must of course ensure that he can be treated at home under the same conditions of quality and safety as at the hospital. If this theme is retained, and I am convinced of it, I will launch a call for applications in the fall. Subsequently, approved project proposals will have an opportunity for two years to prove their added value. The new organizational model should preferably offer added value to the patient and the overall cost cannot increase. Shared savings will preferably be achieved and can be used in other areas of care. The pilot projects, the results of which will be favourable, will serve as an inspiration for me in two years' time to implement, if necessary, larger-scale up-to-date hospitalization in our health care system.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-16-54-plenair-ip065x.u35	Madam Minister, thank you. I invite you to contact this ASBL. It's really worth listening to them. I did it personally. Their experience will make you understand that this is one of the best solutions to allow the sick to suffer from their disease in good conditions, at home, and also to be relieved by specific medical acts.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-16-54-plenair-ip065x.u36	Madam Secretary, you have proposed the modernisation plan for SNCB. I'll reassure you immediately. Unlike some of your coalition partners, we support 90% of the initiatives you wish to take. We certainly follow your vision of the stations for 99%. Stations should not be pharaonic and payment gates may be placed in stations. I fully follow you in that. I am a regular user of the Dutch railway infrastructure and I note that the system works there for 100 % and that it also manages to keep black drivers away. Madam Secretary, in the margins of your good news show, my attention was drawn to a press release circulated by my good friend and left neighbor, Wouter Raskin. Mr Vuye, if you could ever invite Mr Raskin to a party council, that would be a credit to your group, because Wouter Raskin really deserves it. Wouter Raskin asked you a question to which he still didn't receive an answer. He wanted to know if you were willing to provide prayer rooms for Muslims in the stations. You have still not answered Mr Raskin's question. I'm a small man of a small fraction. Ik sta hier dus iets gemakkelijker voor u. A man's greatness is not measured by his size. So I can ask the question today. Have you or have you not provided prayer rooms for Muslims in station spaces or railway infrastructure? Do you intend to expand or not?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-16-54-plenair-ip065x.u37	Mr Penris, I have indeed heard that Infrabel has provided a space in the Brussels-South signal house in which staff can pray briefly. According to Infrabel, the decision was taken because some workers were disturbed by praying to their colleagues during breaks in the common areas. By opening it locally, this is what is being done. The trade unions support the scheme. My cabinet requested information about this. Two things need to be clarified and underlined. First of all, the space is not specially furnished. Nothing special's been done. There are no additional facilities. There was therefore no specific prayer room in the Brussels-South signal house. Secondly, workers should only pray and use it locally during their breaks. No additional time is given for this. It is only in Brussels-South that this limited arrangement has been put in place. There are no other questions or initiatives. The railway group does not have any guidelines on this either. Finally, after receiving this information, I wrote a letter to the CEOs of Infrabel and SNCB asking them to inform me about such practices in their buildings, as well as about the legislation in force and the respect for them.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-16-54-plenair-ip065x.u38	Thank you, ma'am. There's applause on all the couches. I hope you will keep your word, because I believe that SNCB is and should remain a neutral institution. If one starts with a prayer room for Muslims, one will soon have to set up prayer rooms for Catholics, Protestants, Jews, Buddhists and even heathens like me. If I want to perform my ceremonies at midsummer or midwinter, you will have to build small fires and so on. Madam, I hope that you really mean what you are saying and that SNCB and its infrastructure will remain neutral with regard to religious obedience. I've heard applause on all the benches. I'll take care of that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-16-54-plenair-ip065x.u39	Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I hope you did not plan a trip to the coast on Saturday, because you could face some difficulties if you wanted to do so by train. All madness on a stick, we know that on Saturday we have an unreasonable action of a small union at SNCB. This summer, ASTB organises an action every Saturday if the train traveller wants to take the train at that time. Victims are SNCB, its staff, its travelers, but also the trade unions who think it is good with SNCB. So we are faced with that action. If that action already indicates one thing to me, it is that the social consultation at SNCB is sick. This is reflected not only in the current action, but also in the inflation rate of actions carried out by the SNCB public service over the months and years. That has nothing to do with the current minister or government, it's something that stays constant. I conclude from this that social dialogue is not a good thing, since the strike is always being taken as a means of action, while there are many other ways of conducting social dialogue. In the first instance, this is talking to each other, possibly taking other actions, but only in the last instance using the means of strike, for which everyone is the victim in a public service such as SNCB. Madam Secretary, first of all, do you think this strike is reasonable? Or do you think this is an unreasonable exercise of the right to strike? Secondly, how do you see the future of social dialogue within SNCB? Do you see any changes to that in the coming period? There's a syndical statute, there's a deal. Do you see any changes to that?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-16-54-plenair-ip065x.u40	Thank you, Commissioner, for your question. It allows me to make it clear here in the Chamber that I condemn these strikes. They are disproportionate, unreasonable and unjust. It is totally irresponsible to shut down the country again and to hostage tens of thousands of customers. The economic cost of these strikes is unacceptable to individual customers and to society. As a minister, I do not organise the social dialogue myself. Still, I called the ASTB the day before yesterday to have a new conversation. This was simply denied by the syndicate. However, my view of the railways contains some elements that relate to their requirements. I therefore regret this refusal. Finally, I would like to say that SNCB is currently organising itself internally for next Saturdays. I am already very satisfied with the customer orientation of the company in this difficult and exceptional situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-16-54-plenair-ip065x.u41	Madam Minister, I am very pleased that you are also condemning this strike and calling it totally unreasonable. That's important. It is not a normal exercise of the right to strike, and SNCB's management should even be able to act against that unreasonable exercise of that important right. What I also think is important is the social dialogue. That's not right with SNCB. This is because there is no real social democracy in the public sector and in SNCB. There are no social elections at SNCB. If that were the case, I am sure that many SNCB staff would punish it in social elections. In this respect, I refer to a position that I took together with Mr Van Quickenborne a while ago in connection with the organisation of next year's social elections. We believe that there should also be social elections in the public sector and, for example, in SNCB, so that staff can condemn and punish such unreasonable actions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-16-54-plenair-ip065x.u42	The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. If there is no objection, I shall consider it adopted; in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be sent to the committees responsible. If there are no comments on this subject, I will take it into account as a matter of fact and refer the proposals back to the relevant committees in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. In line with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 15 July 2015, I also propose that you consider: - the bill (Mr Roel Deseyn and Mrs Nathalie Muylle) amending the inheritance tax code as regards goods made available for education, No. 1256/1. Sent to the Finance and Budget Committee - the motion for a resolution (Mrs Muriel Gerkens, Mr Daniel Senesael, Mrs Maya Detiège, Mr Georges Dallemagne and Mrs Anne Dedry) on the fight against illegal timber trade, No. 1260/1. Sent to the Commission for Health, the Environment and Social Renewal - the legislative proposal (Mr Elio Di Rupo, Mrs Meryame Kitrir and Mr Frédéric Daerden, Mr Eric Massin and Mr Jean-Marc Delizée) to combat social dumping, No. 1263/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-16-54-plenair-ip065x.u43	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 15 July 2015, I also propose that you take into account: - the proposal for a law (Mr Roel Deseyn and Ms Nathalie Muylle) amending the Code of Succession Rights with regard to educational property, No. 1256/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-16-54-plenair-ip065x.u44	- the motion for a resolution (Ms. Muriel Gerkens, Daniel Senesael, Maya Detiège, Georges Dallemagne and Anne Dedry) to combat the illegal trade in timber, No. 1260/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-16-54-plenair-ip065x.u45	- the draft law (Mr. Elio Di Rupo, Ms. Meryame Kitir and Messrs. Frédéric Daerden, Eric Massin and Jean-Marc Delizée) to combat social dumping, No 1263/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-16-54-plenair-ip065x.u46	Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-16-54-plenair-ip065x.u47	These inquiries were developed in the Committee on External Relations on 8 July 2015 These interviews were held in the External Relations Commission of 8 July 2015. Three motions were tabled (MOT No. 057/1): - a first motion for a recommendation was tabled by Ms Gwenaëlle Grovonius and Messrs. Philippe Blanchart and Stéphane Crusnière; - a second motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms. Anne Dedry; - a simple motion was tabled by Rita Bellens, Nele Lijnen and Els Van Hoof and MM. Jean-Jacques Flahaux, Peter Luykx and Tim Vandenput. Three motions were tabled (MOT No. 057/1): - a first motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mrs Gwenaëlle Grovonius and Mr Philippe Blanchart and Mr Stéphane Crusnière; - a second motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Anne Dedry; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Rita Bellens, Mrs Nele Lijnen and Mr Els Van Hoof and by Mr Jean-Jacques Flahaux, Mr Peter Luykx and Mr Tim Vandenput. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-16-54-plenair-ip065x.u48	Mr President, on 25 June last we learned, to our greatest astonishment, that the Minister for Development Cooperation, Mr. De Croo, wanted to abolish the Belgian Food Security Fund. This announcement was confirmed at my inquiry on 8 July and at our meeting, which was held no later than today noon. Minister De Croo is trying to blur the tracks, but no one is fooled. It is his intention to achieve savings on the back of the Belgian Food Security Fund, while all the actors, including himself, agree to commend the excellent work done in this group. I am, of course, all the more surprised that my colleagues on the CD&V today welcomed the work of this group and called for the sustainability of this tool. I am therefore surprised that the CD&V voted against the motion tabled by my group and that an alternative motion is being tabled today. I regret that, of course. Once again, I see from the CD&V all the schizophrenia that I can detect in this group, where we plead the hot while blowing the cold. I would like to point out that, for my group, there is no ambiguity. Our will is to ensure that the Belgian Food Security Fund can continue and that the budgetary resources allocated to it can continue to be allocated to this important element of food security.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-16-54-plenair-ip065x.u49	Mr President, I think that the motion on food security is more topical than ever. The Belgian Food Security Fund held an official working meeting this afternoon, where Minister De Croo presented his vision on food security and on the fund. We heard the Minister confirm that no decision has yet been taken to abolish the fund, contrary to what his head of the cabinet said a few weeks ago at a meeting with the Members of Parliament who are members of the fund. That is an important nuance for me. There has been a consensus this afternoon that there will be a broad evaluation. The first recommendations made by MEPs showed that the Minister has not yet fully tested his plans to reform and/or integrate the fund into ordinary development cooperation. It is a good thing that the Minister promises to examine with attention the recommendations of the working group. All this, however, will cost valuable time together with the evaluation, which means that the projects, in which a great deal of preparation has already been done, will remain on hold. Ecolo-Green wants clarity on the projects that have been prepared but have not yet started. That is absolutely not good for food security, which the Minister rightly says is a priority policy issue for him, on which he will use more than ever. Hence my motion for a recommendation, in which we ask the government for guarantees of quality and quantity and for funding for projects that place food security at the heart of both the Belgian Food Security Fund and the future integrated operation of the Belgian food and agricultural development cooperation policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-16-54-plenair-ip065x.u50	Start of voting / Start of the vote. Did everyone vote and check their vote? / Did everyone vote and check his voice? End of voting / End of vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-16-54-plenair-ip065x.u51	Yes 82 Yes No. 62 No Abstentions
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-16-54-plenair-ip065x.u52	Abstensions Total 144 Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-16-54-plenair-ip065x.u53	This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Committee on External Relations on 8 July 2015. This interview was held at the public meeting of the External Relations Commission of 8 July 2015. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 051/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms. Gwenaëlle Grovonius and Mr. Philippe Blanchart; - a simple motion was tabled by Sarah Claerhout and Nele Lijnen and MM. Jean-Jacques Flahaux, Peter Luykx and Tim Vandenput. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 051/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mrs Gwenaëlle Grovonius and Mr Philippe Blanchart; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Sarah Claerhout and Mrs Nele Lijnen and by Mr Jean-Jacques Flahaux, Mr Peter Luykx and Mr Tim Vandenput. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-16-54-plenair-ip065x.u54	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is a good motion. As recent events have shown, FIFA uses practices that run counter to the values it claims and defends. This motion simply calls for an unequivocal Belgian position when applying for and selecting for the award of international sporting events in the light of universal values such as human rights, freedom of expression and decent social and environmental conditions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-16-54-plenair-ip065x.u55	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, my political group, on whose behalf I am speaking, rejects this motion.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-16-54-plenair-ip065x.u56	It's democracy! That is why, along with other members of the majority, I have tabled a simple motion. Mr Blanchart, Foreign Minister Didier Reynders, explained in the Committee on External Relations that Belgian diplomacy has no role to play in the selection of the host countries for the World Cup or the Olympic Games. Private bodies have this authority. In addition, when disputes are brought before courts, the principle of separation of powers, which is still essential, Ms.Lalieux, is that the executive branch should not interfere in the ongoing proceedings. Maybe you're not used to it. Sports federations will have to draw all the consequences and reorganise themselves through major reforms. I think, Mr. Blanchart, that I like the other way around...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-16-54-plenair-ip065x.u57	I think that you should therefore turn to the Communities, which are now known as the Federations, which are competent in this field. Nevertheless, the Minister made it clear that, through bilateral or multilateral approaches, he maintained a sustained dialogue on human rights or the rights of workers working at the infrastructure construction sites of these events. Finally, the Minister, in a constructive spirit, suggested that the Committee on External Relations should open its work in order to initiate a debate with the aforementioned sports bodies, both at Olympic and football level. It is therefore the Chairman of the Committee on External Relations, Mr. Van der Maelen, to organize this work. In conclusion, your inquiry has very little to do with the competence of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who is nevertheless very active in the defence of human rights. I therefore consider this inquiry to be unfounded.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-16-54-plenair-ip065x.u58	Start of voting / Start of the vote. Did everyone vote and check their vote? / Did everyone vote and check his voice? End of voting / End of vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-16-54-plenair-ip065x.u59	Yes 83 Yes No. 62 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 145 Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-16-54-plenair-ip065x.u60	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 3) Yes 144 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 144 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft. (139/9) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a draft for Royal Assent. (139/9)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-16-54-plenair-ip065x.u61	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 143 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 145 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft. (408/8) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a draft for Royal Assent. (408/8) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-16-54-plenair-ip065x.u62	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 5) Yes 95 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 51 Abstensions Total 146 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1200/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1200/4) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-16-54-plenair-ip065x.u63	Vote on Amendment No 1 by Vanessa Matz on Article 2. (1170(2)) Vote on Amendment No 1 to Article 2 by Vanessa Matz. (1170/2) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 6) Yes 32 Yes No. 107 No Abstentions 5 Abstensions Total 144 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 5 by Vanessa Matz cs on article 2. (1170(2)) Vote on Amendment No 5 by Vanessa Matz cs to Article 2. (1170/2) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 7) Yes 31 Yes No. 93 No Abstentions 21 Abstensions Total 145 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 2 by Vanessa Matz on Article 2. (1170(2)) Vote on Amendment No 2 by Vanessa Matz to Article 2. (1170/2) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 8) Yes 30 Yes No. 99 No Abstentions 15 Abstensions Total 144 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 2 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 2 was adopted. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-16-54-plenair-ip065x.u64	Mr President, I voted like my group.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-16-54-plenair-ip065x.u65	Of which act. Vote on Amendment No 3 by Hans Bonte cs to insert an article 2/1(n). (1170(2)) Vote on amendment No 3 by Hans Bonte cs to insert an article 2/1(n). (1170/2) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 9) Yes [[45]] Yes No. 87 No Abstentions 13 Abstensions Total 145 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 4 by Hans Bonte cs to insert an article 2/2(n). (1170(2)) Vote on amendment No. 4 by Hans Bonte cs to insert an Article 2/2(n). (1170/2) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-16-54-plenair-ip065x.u66	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-16-54-plenair-ip065x.u67	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 10) Yes 95 Yes No. 3...................................................................................................................... 3...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... No Abstentions 46 Abstensions Total 144 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1170/7) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1170/7) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-16-54-plenair-ip065x.u68	Mr President, I abstained.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-16-54-plenair-ip065x.u69	It's been noted.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-16-54-plenair-ip065x.u70	Vote on Amendment No 2 by Vanessa Matz cs on article 3. (1197/2) Vote on Amendment No 2 by Vanessa Matz cs to Article 3. (1197/2) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 11) Yes 56 Yes No. 87 No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 145 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 3 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 3 was adopted. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 3 by Vanessa Matz on Article 4. (1197/2) Vote on Amendment No 3 by Vanessa Matz in Article 4. (1197/2) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 12) Yes 56 Yes No. 87 No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 145 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 4 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 4 was adopted. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 1 by Vanessa Matz cs on article 5. (1197/2) Vote on Amendment No 1 by Vanessa Matz cs to Article 5. (1197/2) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 13) Yes [[46]] Yes No. 87 No Abstentions 12 Abstensions Total 145 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 5 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 5 was adopted. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 6 by Vanessa Matz cs on Article 8. (1197/2) Vote on Amendment No 6 by Vanessa Matz cs to Article 8. (1197/2) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-16-54-plenair-ip065x.u71	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 8 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 8 was adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-16-54-plenair-ip065x.u72	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-16-54-plenair-ip065x.u73	Apart from me, all the other Members will vote in favour. I wish to abstain, but not because of the finality of the text. As the committee has shown, there has been quite a lot of discussion about the definition of "specially serious crime'. We want to monitor that definition. We therefore propose that the Committee I report regularly on what constitutes a serious crime. Maybe in the long term, we can come up with a better definition. That is why I am abstaining in the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-16-54-plenair-ip065x.u74	Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 99 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 46 Abstensions Total 145 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1197/5) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1197/5) Reason for abstinence? Reasons for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-16-54-plenair-ip065x.u75	Mr President, our group abstained for two reasons. The first is that the classification of a particularly serious offence seems to us to be a vague notion for removing refugee status. We have made proposals to make it much clearer and more limited to terrorist offences. The second reason concerns a CGRA assent which is not intended for the removal of persons who have been removed from refugee status. The Minister is left with far too much discretion, while the CGRA is an independent commission.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-16-54-plenair-ip065x.u76	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-16-54-plenair-ip065x.u77	Mr President, I would like to take this opportunity to explain our abstentions on the various draft laws. My explanation of vote therefore applies to all these drafts. Mrs De Coninck explained the previous draft. Our abstentions on the other drafts are mainly due to our belief that the government is pursuing a very one-sided policy, especially in terms of timing, in terms of introducing penalties and providing for the possibility of actively stopping people, while we have repeatedly demonstrated in the debate that we cannot guarantee today that anyone who is radicalised and is a potential terrorist will also be effectively followed up. I will not repeat the debate, but it is dangerous to take repressive measures without guaranteeing adequate follow-up. That is the reason for our abstention. In addition, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to express my disappointment at the fact that there has not been any mention of a proposal to introduce a guarantee for minors who are being stopped because of radicalism that they will be followed by youth protection committees. That's a missed opportunity. I am sure that sooner or later we will have to go back on our steps.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-16-54-plenair-ip065x.u78	Mr President, with regard to all the projects relating to terrorism, with the exception of the one for which I have just justified abstention, our group has voted and will vote in favour. In January, we announced that as soon as the government tackles the fight against terrorism, the CDH would be at its side. We had, as of that date, tabled with Georges Dallemagne several bills which are almost in all respects what the government is now presenting to us, that is to say seven and a half months later. We could have moved faster. It is a fundamental reservation that we express to the policy that is being pursued. The second reservation, which I have expressed on several occasions, relates to budgets which are totally insufficient to fulfil the tasks entrusted by these projects to the security services, namely the police, the OCAM, the State Security and Justice. We will vote for these texts, because we want to make progress on these issues. We hope that this is, for the time being, part of the policy that the government will implement. We therefore look forward to the follow-up because we want to ensure the fight against terrorism. That is why we will vote in favour of these projects.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-16-54-plenair-ip065x.u79	Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 15) Yes 96 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 48 Abstensions Total 144 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1198/5) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1198/5) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-16-54-plenair-ip065x.u80	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 16) Yes 145 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 145 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1039/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1039/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-16-54-plenair-ip065x.u81	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 17) Yes 144 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 144 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1040/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1040/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-16-54-plenair-ip065x.u82	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-16-54-plenair-ip065x.u83	Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1081/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1081/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-16-54-plenair-ip065x.u84	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-16-54-plenair-ip065x.u85	Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1103/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1103/ 2004)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-16-54-plenair-ip065x.u86	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-16-54-plenair-ip065x.u87	Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1143/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1143/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-16-54-plenair-ip065x.u88	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-16-54-plenair-ip065x.u89	Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1082/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1082/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-16-54-plenair-ip065x.u90	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-16-54-plenair-ip065x.u91	Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1096/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1096/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-16-54-plenair-ip065x.u92	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 18) Yes 138 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 6 Abstensions Total 144 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1144/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1144/4) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-16-54-plenair-ip065x.u93	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 19) Yes 83 Yes No. 56 No Abstentions 5 Abstensions Total 144 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1099/4) Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1099/4) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-16-54-plenair-ip065x.u94	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 20) Yes 97 Yes No. 13 No Abstentions 34 Abstensions Total 144 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1100/4) Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1100/4) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-16-54-plenair-ip065x.u95	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 21) Yes [[140]] Yes No. 2............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 145 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1101/4) Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1101/4) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-16-54-plenair-ip065x.u96	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 22) Yes 141 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 144 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1102/4) Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1102/4) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-16-54-plenair-ip065x.u97	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 23) Yes 108 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 37 Abstensions Total 145 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1141/4) Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1141/4) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-16-54-plenair-ip065x.u98	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 24) Yes 145 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 145 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1142/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1142/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-16-54-plenair-ip065x.u99	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-16-54-plenair-ip065x.u100	Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1145/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1145/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-16-54-plenair-ip065x.u101	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 25) Yes 133 Yes No. [[12]] No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 145 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1147/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1147/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-16-54-plenair-ip065x.u102	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 26) Yes 145 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 145 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1148/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1148/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-16-54-plenair-ip065x.u103	Vote on Amendment No 2 by Alain Top cs on Article 2. (1199/2) Vote on Amendment No 2 by Alain Top cs to Article 2. (1199/2) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 27) Yes 52 Yes No. 83 No Abstentions 10 Abstensions Total 145 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 2 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 2 was adopted. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-16-54-plenair-ip065x.u104	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-16-54-plenair-ip065x.u105	Mr President, we are not opposed to this draft law, as has already been said. We had tabled an amendment to report annually to the Chamber and to the government. Since this has not been adopted and there is therefore no democratic control, our group abstains from voting.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-16-54-plenair-ip065x.u106	Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 28) Yes 98 Yes No. 24 No Abstentions 23 Abstensions Total 145 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1199/5) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1199/5) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-16-54-plenair-ip065x.u107	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 29) Yes 145 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 145 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1195/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1195/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-16-54-plenair-ip065x.u108	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 30) Yes 144 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 144 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1194/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1194/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-16-54-plenair-ip065x.u109	We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for the meetings of the week of 20 July 2015. We must proceed to the approval of the agenda of the sittings of the week of 20 July 2015. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Wednesday 22 July 2015 at 2.15 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Wednesday, 22 July 2015, at 2.15 p.m.
