ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic177x.u1	Mr President, Minister, during the discussion in the Finance Committee on the European Commission's communication on fraud and tax evasion, I had discussed the subject of the FATCA agreements. I asked you a question and you told me that it was better to come back later to get into the discussion. So I'm coming back to you with this question. FATCA agreements are bilateral information exchange treaties that the United States enters into with its trading partners, including several EU Member States. Will the scope of the new European legislation be the same as that covered by the FATCA agreements? In other words, will the EU Member States exchange as much information among themselves as they currently exchange with the US under the FATCA agreements?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic177x.u2	Mr Dispa, the FATCA agreement between Belgium and the United States organises an automatic and reciprocal exchange of financial information. The FATCA agreements that many governments have concluded with the United States have led to a new impetus for the automatic exchange of information as a tool to combat tax evasion and evasion. The Council of the European Union and the G20 have expressed their support for the development of such an exchange. These institutions also stressed the need to avoid the parallel development of different standards. A single standard has the advantage of simplifying processes, increasing efficiency and reducing trade costs. A global standard allows for a more effective fight against international tax evasion and evasion. The new widespread multilateral standard for the automatic exchange of financial information has therefore been developed based largely on the automatic exchange of information required by the FATCA agreements. The 2014 Directive makes it applicable between the Member States of the European Union. Under this new standard, the information to be made available to other EU Member States is broadly the same as that to be made available to the United States. The terms of trade are also very similar, even if there is one particular feature with the United States. The same standard will therefore apply for the automatic exchange of financial information with the other Member States of the European Union and with third States.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic177x.u3	Mr Minister, I thank you for this information which is moving in the right direction. Indeed, the widest possible standard can be welcomed, provided that it is not reduced, which does not appear to be the case. I am pleased that the 2014 directive can produce its effects as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic177x.u4	Mr President, Minister, SECAL was created by the Act of 21 February 2003 within the FPS Finance. Its objective is to combat poverty, and child poverty in particular. The role of this service is all the more important since the economic context is difficult and family situations are changing with an increasing number of divorces. The purpose of the service is also to assist citizens in the enforcement of court decisions by acting as an intermediary between debtors and creditors. Since 2015, there has been an increase in the number of people eligible to apply for SECAL services, as the ceilings have been revised upwards, which we welcome. However, according to Professor Pacolet, the author of the research report The budgetary impact of the granting of advances by the Maintenance Claims Service, there is a need to consider the promotion of the service to the target audience. In other words, precarised parents may not be aware that they can make use of this service that exists for them and would be extremely useful to them. Minister, can you tell us more about the promotion of SECAL to target audiences to ensure that they are well informed?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic177x.u5	Mrs Wilmès, various promotional measures exist to ensure the reputation of SECAL. This "advertisement" is ensured, inter alia, by means of a website, posters, leaflets and brochures which are updated annually. In addition, when the Act of 12 May 2014 entered into force, a targeted communication action was launched. All applicants who had an open file with the service and who, under the previous law, did not meet the conditions to benefit from the advances were contacted by mail to notify them that the revenue ceiling to qualify for the advances had been raised. In addition, I would remind you that any judgment establishing a food contribution must mention the coordinates of the SECAL and remind you of its tasks. This publicity measure informs the creditor, as soon as the judgment is delivered, of the service to be addressed in case of problems of payment of maintenance.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic177x.u6	Minister, thank you. Advertising is a complicated word to use in this area, but promotion of the service is indeed fundamental. I am glad to know that it exists from the beginning, as soon as the judgments are fixed. I also imagine that CPAS has a role to play in the dissemination of information and I hope we're playing an important card with them. I saw today that a question had been asked to Mrs Sleurs about the provision of the amounts spent. This is fine with me, since I was planning to ask you about this next week in the discussions on budgetary control.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic177x.u7	Mr President, Mr Minister, in her plan to combat tax fraud, the Secretary of State, Mrs Sleurs, wishes to allow the judicial officers to consult the central bank register. Currently, the central point of contact (CCP) based with the National Bank is only available from certain tax officers. Minister, which FPS Finance officers do they have access to the central contact point? Why is access restricted to this category? Do you intend to allow access to the CCP to other tax officers of equivalent rank to those who have access to it today? If so, would these changes, in your opinion, require a legislative amendment? What is the current method of funding the CCP? Can you specify the amounts? Will the extension of access to the CCP be free of charge to judicial officers?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic177x.u8	Mr. Dispa, with regard to the FPS Finances, currently has access to the CCP certain officials responsible for income taxing, namely certain officials of the General Administration of Taxation and the General Administration of the Special Inspectorate of Taxes, as well as those responsible for its collection, namely certain officials of the General Administration of Collection and Collection. As far as income tax is concerned, consultation with the CCP is, given the importance of this procedure and the uniform application of it, legally limited to officials appointed by the Minister referred to in Article 322(2) of the Income Tax Code 1992. This means that only the Director responsible for the department that conducted the investigation can consult the CCP, provided that a fairly strict procedure is followed. With regard to the collection of income tax, access to the application of the CCP is limited to the general adviser, regional director of each regional collection centre and the special collection centre and, in case of absence of the centre, to the co-ordinator of the legal service of the centre. Although officials of the General Administration of Perception and Recovery are not affected by the limitations imposed by Article 323, § 2 to 4, this restricted access is based on purely organizational questions specific to the establishment of the system. The administration is currently studying the possibility of extending the consultation of the CCP to VAT officials. If necessary, an amendment to the VAT Code will be necessary. The administration is also examining how and how CCP data can be useful for other FPS Finance general administrations. Where appropriate, the legislation of the general administrations concerned will have to be adapted. The CCP is managed by the National Bank of Belgium. The State is responsible for all costs incurred in developing the installation, operation and maintenance of the CCP. Where other organizations within or outside the federal authority may have access to the CCP, operating costs cannot be borne by the FPS Finance alone. A clear allocation key should be set for both fixed and variable costs. The cost of operating the CCP for 2014 is EUR 1,085,600.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic177x.u9	Thank you, Minister, for your very comprehensive answer. As regards the extension of access to judicial officers, I take it from your answer that this access, if any, would not be free.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic177x.u10	I'll give you the precise information soon. I'd rather not answer you in an incorrect way.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic177x.u11	Your answer was already very interesting.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic177x.u12	Mr President, Minister, in a fairly recent judgment of 7 May 2015, the Constitutional Court ruled on the validity of the increase in the subscription fee payable by banking institutions, introduced by the Act of 30 July 2013. On the question of retroactivity, the Court held that it was unfounded: "As stated in B.8.1, the objective of the increase in the subscription fee is twofold: on the one hand, to compensate for the loss of budgetary resources and, on the other hand, to encourage credit institutions to invest in the real economy. Neither the preparatory work nor the memorandum of the Council of Ministers, however, indicate why it was essential, in order to achieve these objectives, to give retroactive effect to the increase under appeal. The second objective can only be argued for the future and not for the past." It is stated in B.14: "It follows from the foregoing that the retroactivity of the contested provisions is not justified". Minister, what are the consequences of this judgment on the state budget? What steps are you planning to take to address this lack of revenue?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic177x.u13	Mr President, Minister, it is always dangerous to legislate retroactively. Mrs Marghem has a lot of difficulties with this kind of procedure at the moment! I, like my colleague Mrs Matz, am interested in this decision of the Constitutional Court and my questions go in the same direction. What are the consequences of these decisions, particularly in terms of budgetary impact? Do you intend to challenge the decision from a legal point of view? Would you have any new arguments against the complainant? Will you correct the text cancelled by the Constitutional Court? Are compensatory measures envisaged for the banking sector to pay what is due? The aim was to have it contribute to fiscal consolidation efforts, given the cost to public finances. What kind of agreement, regardless of legal action, could you obtain with the banking and financial sector?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic177x.u14	Mr President, Mrs Matz, Mr Gilkinet, the ruling of the Constitutional Court annulled the increase in the rate from 0.0965% to 1.12% on savings deposits with credit institutions. Because of the very short time between the ruling of the Constitutional Court and your questions, we are not in a position to provide a precise estimate of the impact of the judgment on the state budget. In the preparatory work for the 2013 law, it was expected that the increase in the tax would bring in an additional 40 million. However, it should be noted that the volume of savings deposits increased significantly over the period considered. The amount of EUR 40 million could therefore be increased. It will also be necessary to integrate the number of claims for restitution that credit institutions will forward to the FPS Finances. The government agreement states that a reform of the annual taxes on credit institutions, collective investment undertakings and insurance companies will be initiated. This includes taking into account the different business models of the institutions that are subject to it. Compensation for losses resulting from the ruling of the Constitutional Court could be envisaged as part of the reform planned for the end of the year.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic177x.u15	Mr President, Minister, thank you. Although the period of time is relatively short between the judgment and today, i.e. about ten days, it seems to me necessary that we have a more precise figure. As you say yourself, the amount is currently estimated at forty million, but it could actually be much higher. In addition, further reform is planned by the end of the year. In the meantime, what appropriations will be eligible for compensation? I imagine that tax had already been budgeted. I will return to question you for a more precise answer as to the loss caused by this judgment.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic177x.u16	Mr President, Minister, I am concerned about your response given the limited information you have given us about the budgetary impact of the measure and the solutions envisaged. I note that you used the conditional when you spoke about the reform of annual taxes paid by the banking and financial sector which could include some form of compensation for the sector to pay what it owes. It would have been a good idea for him to do so spontaneously without challenging this very normal contribution. However, there is another possibility: banks should not individually request the refund of the tax paid, as would be possible with the Constitutional Court's ruling. In any case, we expect you to show proactivity and intransigence towards this sector, which has cost public finances far too much, even if it is necessary for the functioning of the economy.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic177x.u17	Mr President, Minister, the agenda of the ECOFIN Council on 12 May included an item on a possible revision of the code of conduct applicable to budgetary rules. In January, the European Commission published a communication on "better use of flexibility within the existing rules of the Stability and Growth Pact". According to the preliminary reports, it appears that different views are expressed in this respect in favour of greater flexibility in budgetary rules or, on the contrary, a restriction on them. In order to give Member States room for social and economic intervention, it seems essential to move towards a relaxation of these rules. Minister, can you tell me what the federal government's position is on easing the European budgetary rules? Has there been any consultation with the federated entities on the position to be defended within ECOFIN? If so, what is the final result of these discussions? If not, will this consultation take place after ECOFIN? Beyond the ECOFIN Council of 12 May, what is the timetable for a decision on a possible revision of budgetary standards?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic177x.u18	Mr Gilkinet, first of all, I would like to highlight two important points. First, the issue of flexibility was not formally on the agenda. At breakfast, ECOFIN ministers took note of the roadmap to reach agreement on the revision of the Code of Conduct "Specifications on the implementation of the Stability and Growth Pact and Guidelines on the format and content of Stability and Convergence programmes" at the end of the year. Secondly, the European Commission's interpretative communication is not intended to change the budgetary rules that have just been strengthened a few years ago. That said, the Commission's Communication "best used the flexibility offered by the existing rules of the Stability and Growth Pact" and provides further guidance on how the Commission will use its margin of interpretation in implementing the existing rules of the Stability and Growth Pact. This Communication is therefore not intended to modify the existing rules of the Stability and Growth Pact but to provide Member States with clarification of the measures to be taken to ensure that the common budgetary framework contributes to the success of the European Union's strategy for growth and employment, in particular as regards investment and structural reforms, all of which take better account of the economic situation in each Member State. The Commission considers that in its communication, the necessary guarantees and conditions are in place to make the best use of the flexibility of the existing rules, without compromising their credibility and effectiveness in terms of financial and budgetary accountability. For the time being, the communication commits only the Commission. The Code of Conduct has already proven in the past that it is a useful tool for clarifying the rules of the Stability and Growth Pact. The Commission and the Member States are of the view that an agreement on an agreed text incorporating flexibility into the Code of Conduct could be a good solution. The aim is therefore to arrive at transparent and acceptable rules for the Commission and for the Member States in the Code of Conduct. The discussion on the integration of flexibility into the Code of Conduct will begin in a few weeks' time within the Economic and Financial Committee, with the aim of reaching an agreement by the end of the year. For the time being, the Commission has not yet made a proposal for an amendment. At the level of Belgium, the other administrations will be kept informed through internal coordination within Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic177x.u19	Minister, it's a very nuanced answer that plays a little bit about words. There is therefore no question of the budgetary rules being called into question, but the introduction of a certain degree of flexibility, in particular, in relation to state investment policies, is important. While investment choices can be seen as useful, productive and not as a pure deficit, it is possible to change the framework without calling it into question. I think there is an opportunity, in any case in relation to our vision of the economy that the public authorities are supporting the economy in order to broaden the framework a little bit. It must be seized, if necessary, in consultation, of course, with the federated entities which are also concerned, simply by the division of powers and by the fact that they are competent for the support of the communes. I encourage you to make the best use of the possibilities, the openings that are made in terms of flexibility, especially in relation to the accounting of investments. It seems to me that this is an opportunity not to let go to ease the budgetary constraints that are ours.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic177x.u20	Mr President-in-Office, I would like to outline two fictitious situations, with a question for clarification. A Belgian company A has a financial year running from 1 January to 31 December and is absorbed by a company B from the Netherlands by 31 May 2015. That withdrawal has retroactive effect until 1 January 2015 and B becomes successor to A, who will become the taxable person in Belgium. That's a first case. A second case, a Belgian company, transfers its seat from Belgium to the Netherlands on 31 May 2015. The balance sheet date remains unchanged. On the basis of the two fictional examples, I would like to ask you the following questions. Firstly, how does the tax liability work in the first example? It seems obvious to me that B will have to fulfil its tax obligation as a non-resident from 1 June to 31 December 2015. However, what about the period from 1 January to 31 May? That's not entirely clear. Is B obliged to file a declaration as a non-resident for the period from 1 January to 31 December 2015, or does B have to file a corporate tax return as a Belgian resident for the period from 1 January to 31 May 2015? In the second example, is the new Dutch company obliged to file a declaration for its Belgian activities as a non-resident for the whole year 2015, or is it required to file a corporate tax return as a resident of the state until 31 May 2015, and a declaration as a non-resident for the period 1 June to 31 December 2015?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic177x.u21	Mrs. Van Cauter, I have good news and bad news. With regard to your first question, the news is somewhat less good than for the second question. Because of the complexity of the first situation, which you outline, and the lack of clarity in the example of whether or not tax neutrality applies to that cross-border transaction, I cannot really answer your first question in the present form. If the case can be made more concrete with more concrete parameters, we are of course prepared to work on it and give a concrete answer. As far as your second question is concerned, the company will remain subject to corporate tax until the grounds of taxableness are removed from the corporate tax system. That is the case from the day on which the company transfers its registered office abroad and can therefore no longer be regarded as a domestic company. The Income Tax Code equates the transfer abroad of the tax residence of domestic companies with a distribution of social property. The company will have to file a corporate tax return as a domestic company for the period up to 31 May 2015 and a tax return as a foreign company for the period from 1 June to 31 December 2015, in so far as it makes transactions taxable in the latter taxes.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic177x.u22	In any event, Minister, you have given an answer to the second case which has been submitted to me. I'll be happy to pass it on. It was pretty obvious. We will certainly return to the first case. Apparently, the case isn't complicated enough yet.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic177x.u23	Minister, this question was not originally for you, but it was referred back to the Department of Finance. The press informs us that the judicial officers will be able to collect the fines, a pilot project having already been set up in Ghent. Thus, the regime of fear established, despite them, by the bailiffs, will be supplemented by a competence that I would call 'executory'. However, the systematic recourse to bailiffs in the context of debt recovery sometimes has the consequence of increasing the bill for the fragile population, which already cannot pay its basic bills and sometimes brings it into over-indebtedness or even impoverishment. Indeed, the intervention of bailiffs incurs significant costs in terms of the costs of recall, of the intervention of intermediaries, of the recovery, which the modest person would probably call "costs of any kind" and this is certainly not false. Minister, what is the procedure in place? Will the intervention of the bailiffs be used in order to avoid seizures, so that they are no longer only the ultimate solution? The intervention of a bailiff generates fear in the one who is identified as a bad payer. It's probably one of the goals. However, how will this debtor know, before he hastening to pay, that the amounts actually correspond to a certain and payable debt, in order to avoid, for example, paying a prescribed amount? Should the intervention of the bailiffs be or will it be cast into a new regulation?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic177x.u24	Mrs Özen, the rumours are not entirely accurate. The judicial officers have long been working with my administration to recover unpaid criminal fines. What is happening now is the resumption of recovery via the judicial officers after a period during which it was impossible due to computer problems. In accordance with the procedure, the person concerned must always have received a first invitation to pay in advance. Pending the resolution of these problems, a pilot project was launched to find a practical solution. Through an application of direct contributions adapted, manual selections can be made in order to send files to judicial officers. In addition, my services have leveraged the use of other recovery channels. Since March of this year, the use of the simplified garnishment has been intensified, allowing the seizure of sums from third parties to be seized at a lower cost and faster. Similarly, compensation with tax refunds continues to be used very actively and productively. The same applies to the use of license plate scanners. Finally, in order to ensure that the recovery is carried out in a targeted manner and in such a way as to avoid costs, both for convicted persons and for the State, my administration is increasingly using data mining for the selection of cases.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic177x.u25	Minister, thank you for your very comprehensive answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic177x.u26	Mr Minister, this is a very short question. According to the 2014 Annual Report of the Tax Mediation Service and its recommendations, it would be useful to bring about an adjustment of the deadline for objections provided for in Article 373 of the WIB in accordance with the deadline for objections provided for in Article 371. That adjustment should ensure that the difference in the time limit for objections between the two Articles is eliminated. If Article 371 is applied, it shall apply for six months, if Article 373 is applied, it shall apply for three months only. So that's in case of correlation overload. It is said that it would be useful to eliminate this difference in time, because this often confuses ordinary taxpayers. Hence my questions. Do you think this recommendation can be supported? Do you see, perhaps, a reason that may not be obvious but which you can explain to us in order to maintain this difference? Will you support an initiative in this sense?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic177x.u27	Mrs Van Cauter, it is certainly confusing for the taxpayer to have a six-month time limit for a normal tax assessment to lodge an objection and for a dispute on overload created by an additional tax assessment only over three months. A tie-up of both deadlines is therefore certainly advisable, especially from the point of view of administrative simplification. Questioned by us, the administration has confirmed that it has absolutely no objection to bringing these deadlines into line. This alignment will therefore take place in the context of the reform of the fiscal procedure contained in the government agreement and which we will also implement.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic177x.u28	Thank you, Minister, for your two-fold answer. If I have listened carefully, do you agree to standardize the objection period, up to six months, and will there be a reform of the tax procedure?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic177x.u29	I would add a small nuance: there is still a possibility of six and three months. That's right.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic177x.u30	Then I hope that you will choose a method that is as user-friendly as possible for the citizen. Then I assume this will be six months.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic177x.u31	The citizen is always very present in our minds.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic177x.u32	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic177x.u33	Mr President, Minister, this is an issue on which I have already asked many questions. The annual report of the tax mediation service shows that there is little demand for mediation in the case of cashmereries. For example, only 52 files were submitted in 2014. However, this in itself numerical matter lends itself perfectly to obtaining mediated solutions. Each year, between 3500 and 4000 appeals are lodged against cadastral income. It is therefore only a small number who find their way to the tax mediation service. It is the only matter in which tax mediation should be requested by the investigating official, and not by the citizen, by law. However, I have received signals from citizens who would not have been informed about this matter by the land register services and even had little opportunity to negotiate. Are your services sufficiently informed about their obligation to provide information to citizens in this area? In what way are the services informed about and reminded of their obligation to provide information to citizens? Is it not, however, clear that there is relatively little demand for mediation in the area of cadastral income, to remind the services that they should encourage the possibility of fiscal mediation in this area as well? Are these findings not a signal to enable the application for tax mediation in cashmereries also on the initiative of the citizen, and not just on the initiative of the legally investigating official?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic177x.u34	Mr President, Mrs Van Cauter, officials were informed on the basis of a comprehensive instruction, in particular instruction 4/2012, published on the FPS Finance intranet. This matter is also very explicitly included in the training at the FPS Finance Office. An information leaflet shall be added to each registered consignment informing the newly established or modified cadastral income. The investigating official is usually aware of the objector's wish to appeal to tax mediation. In the objection procedure on cadastral income, the investigating official is usually the person who, in the event of persistent disagreement, claims the arbitrational decision on behalf of the objector and himself. However, I believe that, as long as the negotiation phase is under way, the objectionor himself should be able to take the initiative to call on the tax mediation service. I will have my administration examine how we can achieve this most quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic177x.u35	Minister, the leaflet to which you refer is sent when the cadastral income is served. I don't know about you, but excess paper goes into the wastebasket once. When this document is served, it is not sufficiently read. We have the problem of an official taking the initiative, but when it comes to a dispute, people should at least know that they can ask for it. A general explanation at the time of service of the cadastral income may not be sufficient. Looking at the results, it does not appear to be efficient enough. I remember the discussion about the failure of consumers and what a letter of formal notice should look like. The result of this parliamentary work was that it should be stated in a different font and in quotes that it is not a question of judicial recovery but merely a letter of formal notice for payment. It is a question of drawing attention to it. I think this is the ideal point where the tax mediation service can play a role. If we are to get into this situation, this must be pointed out. That is the official's obligation to provide information. It should not just be said that it was sent in a leaflet a few months ago. I do not think that is enough. If an agreement is not reached, it is reported that all subsequent costs would be borne entirely by the person requesting a procedure. The administration often uses the means of exerting pressure on the taxpayer, which, if he does not agree and takes action to challenge the courts, he must be aware that he will have to pay all the costs of estimation, peace court and proceedings. It is reported that this would be used as a blackmail weapon, as it were. We may not generalize that, but the number of 52 cases in 3 500 to 4 000 objections must ring a bell that something is not right. I can only welcome your willingness to leave the right of initiative with the citizen. That would certainly be a step forward. However, I would urge you to point out to the services that they must show the way to mediation and that they should not blackmail people with procedural costs in order for them to sign the declaration of agreement with the AI, because that is not correct.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic177x.u36	Mr Minister, I have already asked you a question on this subject in connection with the media reports, according to which as a pilot project in Ghent and Liège bailiffs were called in to collect penalty fines. You have stated in the press that this has been paying off since January. For example, 8.9 million of overdue fines were collected in Ghent during the measured period. Mr Minister, I also asked you about the FIRST project, which is a follow-up to the STEAMER project. STEAMER did not work sufficiently, because only a first warning was sent but could not be followed or paid afterwards, after which the implementation phase stopped. The successor, FIRST, will ensure that the whole chain is followed. The judgment shall be forwarded electronically, followed by a formal notice, and thereafter the execution phase shall run. Hence my question, Minister. Can you give us a cost-benefit analysis of the pilot project on the collection of penalty fines? I ask that because I remember that someone, for you to become Minister, once said not to be able to decide what the share of implementation costs was in the total revenue. How much did the quoted project cost, how much was invested in the implementation costs and how much is the return? What is the relationship between the pilot project and the FIRST project? In the case of FIRST, a second warning may follow, after which the attachment procedure will be carried out through the bailiff? How does this happen in the pilot project? How do these two relate to each other? In future, will the FIRST project include, in addition to sending an invitation to pay, the possibility to follow up the files further and pass them on to a court bailiff for further execution? Or do they stop after the letter of formal notice? I should hope not. What progress has been made on the second phase of the evolutionary maintenance of the FIRST project? Has a definitive solution been found to the problems registered?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic177x.u37	As far as your first question is concerned, Mrs Van Cauter, I cannot yet give you a detailed cost-benefit analysis, but I do have some important elements that certainly must and can form part of it. On the cost side, the development costs of the programme used in the pilot project are the application of debtor management. That programme was completely adapted by own resources, which are owned by the FPS Finance, without any inventory of it being kept. Another cost item, of course, relates to implementation costs, but they are separate from the pilot project, because these costs must be paid in any event in the event of forced recovery. We can estimate the court bailiff's costs which remain borne by the government at 5% to 10% of the amount to be recovered. On the benefit side we find the proceeds of the collection and recovery. In this context, I can tell you that the revenues in Ghent have now risen to around EUR 2.5 million. As regards your second and third questions, the application of debtor management already existed before the start of the STEAMER project, which was later renamed FIRST. The debtor management programme is used for the recovery of direct taxes and VAT. It is precisely because of the lack of important functionalities in FIRST that the administration has decided to adapt an existing programme and make it useful for the recovery of penalty fines and other non-fiscal debts. As originally intended, the FIRST programme should in the longer term become the application used by the entire FPS Finance for collection and recovery. In this sense, the two programmes, FIRST and debtor management, will not continue to exist side by side. Of course, the finished FIRST will contain all the functionalities, which are now provided by the debtor management program, including the payment reminder, the simplified third-party attachment and the order for the bailiff. Fourthly, the second phase of evolutionary maintenance is still running until November 2015. We are now about halfway through the term of the contract, which aims to make technical and functional improvements. The latest report showed that we are on track and there are no blocking factors. As a result, FIRST will be able to send payment reminders from June onwards.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic177x.u38	Mr. Secretary, I'm trying to understand. By analogy with the recovery of VAT and personal income tax, there is a programme called debtor management. The programme was extended with an additional possibility. The administration did that on its own. In this way, it manages to collect EUR 2.5 million in fines. Of course, I don't have a measure to compare to. What was the result the year before? Do they only use FIRST, after which the bailiff is appointed? I can't tell from that. However, if you say that it is positive, I assume that is true. In addition, a computer program is developed externally. Both STEAMER and NOW FIRST show the necessary childhood diseases. For example, a warning is sent, but people do not know what happens next because it is not registered. Apparently, after a letter of formal notice has been sent, the file is transferred to the bailiff or there will be a procedure of simplified attachment. I'm glad you mentioned that. But there is a program that has been developed internally and that works well in Ghent. You mentioned the collection of EUR 2.5 million in fines. That is good, but why is an external firm still being entrusted with the development of a completely new instrument to take over a well-functioning programme? I don't understand. Could you just point that out for a second? I would also like to ask another question. I understand that, of course, the costs of recovery by the bailiff must be paid by the person liable to pay the fine. However, if it cannot pay, someone else has to pay the bailiff and that is the client. So far I can follow. Shouldn't it be possible to estimate the bailiff's fees? We still don't know that. Today one should know how much it costs. It is important to know how many collections are being made and to find that a rock cannot be poached, that it cannot be recovered. How much is that? If we do not have these figures, we cannot evaluate them. So that seems essential to me. Perhaps my question was not sufficiently detailed. I will try again to formulate them in greater detail. I'm really interested in knowing that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic177x.u39	Mrs Van Cauter, your question concerns the Flemish tax codes and the fact that, according to press releases, 43 new codes have been added, bringing the total to 772, and that the Financing Act has created an increasingly complex system due to more fiscal autonomy. You did approve that Finance Act yourself.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic177x.u40	Mr President, I am glad that you have already made the introduction. I don't need to repeat that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic177x.u41	This is an interesting question about a law that you yourself have passed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic177x.u42	In reply to a previous question from me, the Minister assured us that the taxpayer would not notice any of this. On the declaration form, the breakdown to the competent regions would not be visible to the taxpayer so that there would be no confusion. That's why I'm taking the question again. I have heard some explanations in the media, they are a little faster than Parliament. Mr Minister, how is it that this large number of Flemish tax codes is now in place, unlike your earlier answer in December 2014? Is it still possible for the modal citizen to fill in his tax bill, knowing that there would be no less than 108 tax codes with regard to the deduction of the housing loan? How does the citizen know how to fill that out?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic177x.u43	Mr President, Mrs Van Cauter, first of all allow me to specify that I did not say at the end of last year that taxpayers would not notice, but hopefully as little as possible. That's a not insignificant nuance, isn't it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic177x.u44	I always listen to your answers optimistically, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic177x.u45	With too much faith, maybe.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic177x.u46	With too much confidence, apparently, yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic177x.u47	Mrs van Cauter, having said that, I come to the answer to your first question. The administration has nevertheless endeavoured, believe me, to keep and make the tax returns for tax year 2015 as user-friendly as possible for taxpayers. Unfortunately, due to the additional complexity associated with the sixth state reform, this cannot be achieved without the introduction of a number of new codes. That is today's reality. Most of the new codes relate to the doubling of the housing tax headings. Since the regions are exclusively responsible for the tax advantages relating to the expenditure incurred for their own housing, a distinction should be made between that expenditure and the expenditure incurred on other dwellings. Therefore, the new codes relating to the home will now be preceded by the prefix 3 or 4. Furthermore, the basic structure of the corresponding headings in the declaration remained virtually the same compared to last year, when the full tax advantage still constituted a federal competence. In your second question, you refer to the tax bill, the document received by the taxable person following the submission and verification of the declaration and on which the taxable person finds the amount to be paid or reimbursed. It is therefore a document which the taxpayer receives and not a document which the taxable person himself fills out. More than 80% of the citizens who make a declaration themselves, i.e. without taking into account the simplified declaration proposals, fill in 20 codes or less. Half of the taxpayers only fill in 10 codes or even less. For almost 2.1 million citizens, nothing changes because, like last year, they receive a proposal of simplified declaration. Most citizens will therefore be perfectly able to properly complete their own declarations. The taxable persons who submit their tax-on-web-citizen declaration are supported by a maximum ex ante completion of the data, in so far as the administration obviously has this information. In addition, numerous wizards on Tax-on-web offer additional explanations. For those who need more help, the FPS Finance provides a comprehensive service. There are fill-in sessions in offices, municipal administrations and commercial centres until the end of June. The citizen can ask questions about the FPS Finance Contact Centre by telephone on working days. From this year on, there is also a special support for the deaf and the hearing impaired. Finally, the citizen can consult the FAQ at http://financien.belgium.be for more information on the completion of the declaration. With regard to your third question, the complexity lies less in the number of codes, but rather in the calculation of the tax due. The previous government has sought to avoid, as far as possible, certain negative effects that could be manifested by the new calculation schedule after the sixth state reform. Therefore, a number of correction mechanisms were incorporated at the stage of the calculation of the load. Together with the new calculation scheme, this will make for a considerable amount of adjustments to the calculation program in the personal income tax. Moreover, the existing tax collection programme must also be properly addressed. From now on, the correct part of each payment must be determined for the benefit of the Region. In itself, this is not really an additional complexity for the taxpayer. The adjustment of programmes therefore requires more time, so that the collections may be somewhat delayed compared to last year. This has been taken into account in budgetary control.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic177x.u48	Minister, you will no doubt know that it is not easy for a citizen to choose between 108 codes relating to the deduction for a home, even if he only has to enter 20 codes. I am pleased that you have recalled all the opportunities for citizens to receive additional information from the administration. Perhaps a searching citizen will read your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic177x.u49	Minister, that is one of the instructions of this committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic177x.u50	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic177x.u51	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic177x.u52	Less taxes.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic177x.u53	Mr President, Minister, this May 13th was the general meeting of BNP Paribas, whose Belgian state is the first shareholder. One of the issues at stake in this general meeting was, as we discussed in a previous committee, the possible adoption of a statutory amendment aimed at derogating from the Florange law which grants double voting rights to shares held for at least two years, as is the case with shares of the Belgian State, unless a statutory provision derogating from this principle is adopted. This resolution was carried by the management of BNP Paribas. In your answer to my question on this subject, you indicated that "the Belgian State, in its capacity as the largest shareholder with a stake of more than 10%, will oppose this resolution and therefore stick to the Florange law. This would not only strengthen the Belgian position but would also offer more opportunities to defend Belgian interests optimally." I would like to take stock with you at the end of this general meeting and the consequences to be drawn from it. Can you tell me what prior contacts have been made by your firm or by the Federal Equity and Investment Corporation (SFPI) with the other shareholders in order to obtain a rejection of the statutory change brought about by the management? What was the result of the vote? Can we identify the shareholders who supported the proposal of the management of the bank and those who opposed it? What are the consequences of this result for Belgium's representation in BNP Paribas? What are Belgium's future objectives in terms of content in relation to the positions taken by BNP Paribas, particularly with regard to the soundness of the bank and its ethical choices? I am thinking here of tax evasion.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic177x.u54	Mr President, Mr Gilkinet, my policy is to defend Belgian interests as much as possible. However, it must be admitted that other shareholders have different interests. It is true that the Belgian State is the largest shareholder of BNP Paribas, but this represents only 10% of the shares, which means that the shareholdership of this bank is very diversified, making the prior contacts very difficult. The result of the vote on the question of derogation from the Florange law at the general meeting on 13 May was as follows: the resolution was approved by 78.23 per cent of the votes; 21.71%, of which the Belgian State was a member, voted against. To the extent that a two-thirds majority has been reached, this means that the principle of an action equals one vote is maintained within BNP Paribas. The vote is anonymous, which is why the identity of shareholders who adopt a certain point of view, for or against, is not known to the general meeting or any other body of BNP Paribas. The memorandum of understanding of 10 October 2008, as amended by amendment No 3 of 12 March 2009, provides that as long as the Belgian State holds at least 10% of the voting rights within BNP Paribas, it may submit two directors for approval by the general meeting. If the Belgian State holds between 5 and 10 % of the voting rights, it may present an administrator. However, the Belgian State cannot claim more than two directors. The result of the vote therefore does not alter this situation in any way. The representatives of the Belgian State, namely the SFPI and the Belgian directors on the board of BNP Paribas, have formally been given the task of ensuring the bank's financial health and that the bank is managed in an ethical and responsible manner. This is a constant concern in all aspects of policy, but this is not reflected in very concrete points.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic177x.u55	So, Minister, we were beaten. I take note of that. We have not been without defending our point of view. So much the better, even if it was difficult to mobilise other shareholders than Belgium! Our concern, from the beginning, in the investments made by the Belgian State, particularly in the banking sector, is that they have, beyond their positive financial impact in the form of a dividend, an impact of content on the choices made by the bank. It is an evolution from what I was told earlier about the mission given to the SFPI and to our two administrators to ensure that the bank is ethically and responsibly managed. I can assure you that there is something to do at BNP Paribas, as I have already pointed out, in terms of the sustainability of investments, the risks taken, collaboration with fraud mechanisms, and mechanisms for the destruction of the environment. BNP Paribas is regularly pointed out for its bad choices. I hope that our two directors, even if they do not have the majority, act and denounce this type of behaviour in an attempt to change the model of this bank from within, as long as we are shareholders.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic177x.u56	For information, we are invited on 17 June for a European consultation. We will go to the European Parliament on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic177x.u57	That's well noted in my agenda, Mr. President. This is a follow-up to the very interesting meeting we had with the European Parliament's Tax Committee. As you know, this committee is responsible for investigating aggressive tax practices in different states, including through the ruling. In his reply to the Green MEPs of the Tax Commission on 23 April 2012, Commissioner Moscovici confirmed that, at the meeting of the Code of Conduct Working Group on 17 April 2012, Belgium had acknowledged that it had never exchanged information on tax rescripts, or rules, which constitutes a very clear violation of the European legal framework. Indeed, the 1977 Council Directive on mutual assistance requires the spontaneous exchange of information on problematic tax recriminations. This legal obligation was reaffirmed in 2011 in the Council Directive on administrative cooperation in the field of taxation. More specifically, Article 9 of the Directive provides for the obligation to exchange information spontaneously in cases where there is reason to assume "that there may be a loss of tax or tax in another Member State (...)'' or "that there may be a reduction in tax or tax resulting from fictitious transfers of profits within groups of undertakings". You have recently stated that our country should limit itself in the future to spontaneously exchanging information about its financial rules only "at the request" of another EU state and only for those concluded since 1 January 2015. However, the European legal framework does not in any way make the spontaneous exchange of information conditional on the existence of a prior request. In a judgment delivered on 13 April 2000, the Court of Justice of the European Union confirmed the obligation to exchange information "without prior request". In doing so, Belgium may therefore still not comply with its obligations to exchange information. Minister, can you tell me how the mechanism you want to put in place will respond to Belgium's failure to comply with European law on the exchange of information? What measures do you intend to take to remedy this situation? Will Belgium fully cooperate in the work of the Tax Committee? More specifically, will she provide all the requested documents? You received a letter on 23 April 2015 on this subject, together with an overview, together with the dates and names of the companies concerned, of all the advance rulings that have been issued since 1991 and all the information that has been exchanged since January 2010 with other Member States under the provisions contained in Article 9 of the Directive I cited above and in Article 4 of the Council Directive.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic177x.u58	Mr Gilkinet, without waiting for the entry into force of the proposal for a directive amending Directive 2011/16/EU as regards automatic and compulsory exchange of information in the field of taxation, on 29 April I instructed my administration to prepare an instruction in order to organise the spontaneous exchange of cross-border rules and unilateral transfer pricing agreements with the other Member States of the European Union. This instruction will be published no later than September 30, 2015. Information on cross-border rulings is already exchanged, but so far only on request. It should be noted that the other Member States of the European Union have also not regularly sent unilateral rules and agreements to Belgium. So far, we have received only one run of this kind spontaneously. Cross-border rules and unilateral transfer pricing agreements issued from 1 January 2014 will be exchanged spontaneously from 30 September 2015, once the modalities for the application of the exchange are in place. Belgium will in any case cooperate in the work of the European Parliament's Tax Committee and provide it with the information requested. With regard to the overview of all advance rulings issued since 1991, Belgium will refer to tax rulings as published on the website www.fisconet.be since 1993. These rules are published anonymously in order to preserve the commercial secrets of the companies concerned, in accordance with the legislation. For all information that has been exchanged spontaneously since 2010 with other EU Member States under the Administrative Assistance Directives, only the number of information reported per year will be reported. FPS Finance officers remain in the performance of their duties when they disclose the information to another State. The provisions relating to the professional secrecy of such agents shall apply to all things known to them in connection with the processing of the information.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic177x.u59	This is not a simple problem, which does not concern only Belgium, but we are convinced that this tax war between States must be stopped at European level and that they must cooperate, not only with the Tax Committee which is in place, but more structurally between them, so that the exchange of information is as complete and effective as possible in order to ensure that the tax due is paid, whether in Belgium or in a neighbouring State. Otherwise, the situation will be such that the taxable bases and the states will be emptied overall, so that the citizens will lose and the multinationals will win. I hear you have given your administration a mandate to prepare a circular to be issued no later than September 30, 2015. If this can be done more quickly, it would not be worse. You intend to collaborate with the Tax Commission but by referring to a website and sending anonymous information, you refer to professional secrecy. I am surprised that this professional secrecy is being used with respect to foreign tax administrations. It is not a question of giving information to any comer, but to other sworn agents, whose aim in other countries is to ensure that the tax is paid properly. I have no doubt that the Tax Committee is attentive to the answers you have given me and to the answers you have officially given to it. I have the impression that in terms of transparency, there is a way to do better and faster. I think we have an overall interest in this as European citizens.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic177x.u60	Mr Minister, on Thursday, 7 May, the European Parliament's Committee on Legal Affairs adopted an amendment to the Shareholders' Rights Directive which aims to force multinationals to provide precise information about their subsidiaries, even those which are based in tax havens. Thus, for each host country, reported profits, taxes paid or the number of employees should be published. In order to enter into force, this measure must be approved by the European Parliament in plenary session and by the Council of Ministers. The Belgian government, like its 27 European counterparts, therefore has an opportunity to show that tax justice is a real concern for it. Mr Minister, can you tell me whether you have been informed of the adoption of the amendment referred to above in the Committee on Legal Affairs of the European Parliament? Are you prepared to support the principle of this measure? Is this subject announced on the agenda of a forthcoming ECOFIN Summit? According to what timetable could this measure be implemented? When could it be transposed into Belgian law?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic177x.u61	My colleague, the revision of Directive 2007/36/EC on shareholders' rights is not a matter for the FPS Finances but for the FPS Justice. However, I am aware that on 7 May 2015 the European Parliament's Committee on Legal Affairs adopted the draft revision of this directive, including the obligation for certain "large companies" to publish a country-by-country report on profits, taxes paid on profits and subsidies received. With regard to your second question, Belgium supports the reporting obligation, country by country, provided for in Action 13 of the OECD/G20 action plan on tax base erosion and profit transfer, the famous Base Erosion and Profit Shifting (BEPS) project. This obligation will improve transparency by introducing an automatic exchange of information between tax authorities in different countries to enable them to better assess the risks associated with transfer pricing and tax base erosion and profit transfer practices within international groups. I come to a few additional points. These new directives will come into force on January 1, 2016. International "small groups" are exempt from reporting. These are groups with a turnover of less than EUR 750 million. An evaluation of this criterion is planned for 2020. No further exemptions are provided. All sectors are subject to reporting, including investment funds and entities without legal personality. Second, a uniform reporting model, country-by-country, is developed to limit the administrative costs incurred by taxpayers. Furthermore, the information provided will not be available to the public and will only be exchanged between the tax authorities. In addition, international groups must provide a general overview of their business activity and policy in terms of transfer pricing. Specific information should be provided for intangible assets, financial assets and significant transactions within the group. In answer to your third and fourth questions, the directive is not my responsibility, but that of the Minister of Justice. It is therefore not on the agenda of an ECOFIN summit. According to the European Parliament's website, the revised provisions could be discussed at the first reading in the plenary session of the same Assembly on 8 September 2015. This is an indicative date. Since the proposed act is a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council, it must be approved by both bodies in accordance with the ordinary legislative procedure.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic177x.u62	Minister, thank you. As far as the directive is concerned, I will therefore question the Minister of Justice. I hope that it can be adopted by the European Parliament and the Council and then enter into force. We have an interest in making progress on transparency, perhaps even more comprehensive than you describe. If not all information is to be passed on to the general public, I think that more can be passed on than today; I hope that transparency will lead companies, in this case multinationals, to more virtuous tax, environmental and social behaviour. I will say a final word about the notion of "small group". You have now quoted the turnover of 750 million euros. Perhaps at European level, these are small groups, but at State level, they are very large groups. It will also be necessary at some point to question this limit in order to avoid that too many companies which may be affected escape these rules. These limits must be lowered as soon as possible. All this takes so long to be achieved when it is so urgent. This is frustrating. But thank you for your answers.
