ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-02-54-plenair-ip060x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-02-54-plenair-ip060x.u2	Prime Minister, I think you and your fellow Heads of Government are responsible for the very difficult situation in which Europe finds itself. You have misunderstood the Greek file by leaving it in the hands of technocrats and figure fetishists who think numbers are more important than people. My first question, Prime Minister, is will you, together with your fellow Members, finally accept your responsibility after Sunday and turn this dossier into a matter for the Heads of Government? My second question, Prime Minister, is will you, together with your government, follow the same line after Sunday? Will you continue to plead for further troika poison for Greece? Will you argue for more of the wrong medicine that will ensure that there is a humanitarian crisis in Greece and that the country gets even more sick instead of healing? If you do so, Prime Minister, you and your government and the other Heads of Government will choose even more unemployment in Greece, even lower pensions, even higher VAT, even lower purchasing power and even more desperate people who commit suicide. I call upon you, Prime Minister. There is an alternative to the neoliberal recipe that has ruined Greece! Finally, Prime Minister, I have once been a prouder member of the European Union than I have been today. What I have seen over the past few months and weeks is not my Europe. My Europe is a Europe of solidarity, my Europe is a Europe that takes care of the weak, my Europe is a Europe that places people above the banks. When I read the latest messages, it seems that it has not been enough; they want to go even further. That is why it sounds very hypocritical, Prime Minister, to hear from your mouth that you also want to take care of the Greeks, when you say not a second later that you want your money back. Do you really believe that you will see your money back if you make the Greek economy even worse, if you make the Greeks even poorer? Prime Minister, I call on you to turn the streets after Sunday and choose a Europe that Europeans expect from you, especially a social Europe, a Europe that takes care of people rather than putting people in trouble.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-02-54-plenair-ip060x.u3	If we think it's hot in here, I think it's literally and figuratively even warmer in Greece. It's really embarrassing what we just went through. I'll give you a quote, Prime Minister. The Union has perfected the art of compromise. No drama of victories and defeats. All countries come out of the talks as victors." I don't know if you know who that quote belongs to. It comes from one of your predecessors, Mr Van Rompuy, when he received the Nobel Peace Prize on behalf of Europe. Peace is one of the cornerstones of our Europe. Peace, freedom and solidarity. That project is under considerable pressure today, not only solidarity, but also freedom. This is a political conflict and the question of who in our Europe can decide: the big Eurocrats on behalf of large banks and lobbyists or a people themselves. Let me give you an example of why it is a European political conflict. At this moment in Europe, a crowdfunding project for solidarity with the Greek population is being launched in several countries, including Germany and Belgium. It is clear that the recipes of the troika did not work. Yes, Greece needs to reform because of the clientelism, the corruption and the huge spending on defence. In 2010 our group asked only questions about this through Wouter De Vriendt. Those things need to be dealt with. But Europe must also reform. As early as 2006, the European people rejected the proposal for a Constitution because of its lack of social and sustainability. Where are we today? What perspective can we give to our European people? How can we show that this Europe is moving in the right direction and that it puts people and not figures first in us and in the rest of Europe? What hope can we offer them? What hope do you offer, Prime Minister? Our parties are pro-Europe, but today I am not so sure that Europe is still our project. It is quite clear to us that if Greece falls out of the euro area, we have an immense problem for the other European project. A compromise is not the same as imposing a dogma and not the same as demanding that the Berlin recipe, which has caused a massive decline in the Greek economy, be maintained, with all the disadvantages for the Greek population and all the advantages only for the big banks, which we have actually saved. I come to my final question. Prime Minister, it is your responsibility to offer perspective, not only for Greece, but also for us. What measures will you take? Will you stick to the failed recipe of pruning to grow, which only makes vultures worse, or will you finally invest in Greece, so that the economy becomes more sustainable and, who knows, with all the opportunities it has, the country can build an ecological economy?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-02-54-plenair-ip060x.u4	Mr President, I shall be slightly different from my own. Ladies and gentlemen, do you know when the troika on Greece has come up? That was when the Belgian government was led by Elio Di Rupo. During all these years, under Mr Di Rupo's prime minister, no summit of Heads of State or Government made one reservation on how to deal with the Greek crisis. (Protests from Mrs Onkelinx) Mrs. Onkelinx, that's not wrong. I'm absolutely right. I know what I'm talking about. There are two types of socialists. There are socialists in the majority, such as Mr Dijsselbloem, Mr Moscovici, who is the European Commissioner, Mr Gabriel, German Social Democrat. They take responsibility. There are also socialists who are in opposition and who, in my view, are trying in a totally unbelievable way to make public opinion forget as quickly as possible that they have taken responsibility for years. I don't understand. The IMF has taken a step forward in recent years, and we may have reservations about that. One can ask questions about that, because, let us be honest, what are we talking about here? I am also looking at the Minister of Finance, who put this very well this morning. It's about more than guilt and penance. It's about more than repayment of debts. It is about reforms that must be implemented in all the Member States of the European Union. All these Member States have sometimes taken on their responsibilities with great pain and sorrow. People are talking about solidarity here. Well, I am in solidarity with the Greeks, but I am also in solidarity with the Spaniards, the Irish and the Portuguese. These are all countries, Mrs Temmerman, which have kept their word and implemented those reforms. What do you have a problem with anyway? It's about more than paying back debts. It's about cutting down on clientelism. Do you have a problem with that? It's about phasing out corruption? Do you have a problem with that? It's about the correct collection of taxes. Do you have a problem with that? These reforms must be carried out by Greece. Mr Prime Minister, I would also like to make it very clear on behalf of my group that the solutions should not now come from central banks or currency institutions. I believe that democracy and politics are now in motion. It is up to the Heads of State or Government to find a solution. Let me make it quite clear that a cat is making a weird leap. Mr Tsipras is making very strange jumps. Next Sunday's referendum is not about a number of reforms on 2 A4s, but about whether the Greeks want to remain a member of a monetary, political and economic union. If they do not want to do so, it will not only have budgetary or monetary consequences, but also very important geopolitical consequences. Mr Prime Minister, I therefore believe that you need to make a move. You must work out a political solution for Greece.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-02-54-plenair-ip060x.u5	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, you will allow me not to put the debate at the same level as the one we have just heard between former partners who have agreed to be at the fair for years to lead catastrophic policies at Belgian level. The time deserves better than that. We, as pro-Europeans, are particularly concerned about the current situation in Greece, Prime Minister. First of all, I want to denounce those who put the Greek referendum on Sunday as a matter of exiting Greece from Europe or the euro. President Juncker came out of his role by putting the debate at that level, not respecting the sovereignty of a people. The question is not that of the exit of Greece from Europe; it is that of the exit of the austerity of Europe, Prime Minister, this austerity which leads to worsen the situation of the countries concerned, to kill their social systems, to prevent economic development, to lead to despair. Today, the most traditional economists say this: the revenues that were imposed by the European Commission, the IMF and the ECB on Greece have led to despair, to a situation that is even worse today than it was before those decisions. They can be cited: Krugman, Stiglitz, in Belgium De Grauwe and even Colmant. They say that this austerity solution leads to nothing. Lisez Stiglitz: "Abandon austerity or face global fallout." If you do not give up austerity, you will have to face a European catastrophe. This turning point that has been taken by economists, Prime Minister, when will it be taken by the Heads of State? I was very surprised to hear your debriefing of the European Summit and to see that the management of the Greek crisis was entrusted to technocrats and finance ministers. This is not a technocratic issue, Prime Minister, it is a highly political issue. Some are tempted, and will still be heard, to penalize, to severely strike the Greek people in the name of I do not know what responsibility. The challenge is to reenchant the European project. This issue must urgently be put on the agenda of a European summit. As our representative at European summits, you must urgently call for a European summit and solutions that respect the Greek people.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-02-54-plenair-ip060x.u6	Mr President, Prime Minister, Minister of Finance, we take only one observation from the Greek dossier: the impossibility for Heads of State and Government to show that Europe is better than political postures. We have just had the demonstration here and we can regret this little political game on the backs of the Greeks. I will answer you, Mr Dewael, the previous government – to which you refer every time you are in trouble – has managed to resist the dictates imposed on it. He resisted requests for an index jump and a decline in retirement age. However, this government, which can be described as a "submissive government", is perfectly incapable of resisting austerity. Greece is holding on, and we must support it. I invite you to read economists like Piketty, Colmant, etc.This could be of great help to you. In this debate, the Council discharges itself of its role, which should be more political than technocratic; my colleagues have already said so. On Tuesday evening, the aid programme expired without the Council deigning to meet, preferring to delegate this dossier to ECOFIN, which met seven times in fifteen days to finally adopt the Merkel line. You might as well stop conference calls and other rotating presidencies that are useless. You were proud, Prime Minister, to speak about the British referendum in the last Council. Rather, it is with Greece that you should have illustrated your European dream. To speak of solidarity is good; to assume it is better. I will not dwell on the harsh and insulting words you made when you wanted to "broadcast the end of recreation". No doubt it was a subliminal message to Angela Merkel that you wanted to submit to her diktats. The Greek people and their government from the ballot box deserve respect. What the Greek Government refuses is the increase in VAT and a further reduction in pensions. How can we imagine, even for a moment, that Greece will accept it in view of the mandate given to the Tsipras government by its fellow citizens? Imposing unjust right-wing and austerity measures on this already asphyxiated people is as if Europe were forcing your government to apply left-wing measures. Prime Minister, Minister, what position did Belgium defend at the ECOFIN conference yesterday? What is your analysis of the proposals made by Tsipras on Tuesday? How do you explain that no austerity measures have worked so far, in Greece and elsewhere? When will the Council see its vision again, who denies these facts? How can we understand that the Council does not advocate fair solutions, putting an end to certain privileges, rather than addressing the weakest? How can we explain that, despite all these measures, studies show that Greek debt will fall by only a few points by 2030? Do you intend to address the issue of sovereign debts, while your group's MEP, Mr Louis Michel, calls for a comprehensive solution? Finally, Greece calls for a third aid plan. Did you even mention this question? Do you stand on the yes side or on the no side in this weekend's referendum? What will be your attitude?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-02-54-plenair-ip060x.u7	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Sudan, Somalia and Zimbabwe, this is the company of defaulters in which Greece has been the first Western country since Monday. This is a real disgrace, not only to the Communist regime of Syria, but also to its predecessors, including to the Pasok regime: that is their responsibility. Greece ended up in this situation after Prime Minister Tsipras left the negotiations and put a referendum in place. Not so much a referendum to return democracy to the people, but a referendum in which the question is essentially a question of supporting the government in its efforts to transfer the invoice elsewhere. The simple question is: do you have to pay or do you have to pay someone else? That's a very cowardly way of working. That's not a good attitude. This is not a leader who leads. It is a cowardly attitude of someone who is hiding and who is trying to blame any Grexit that no one wants on the Greek people. That is a completely irresponsible way of working. We have seen this during the negotiations, with views changing every hour. Today, at this hour, I don't know what Prime Minister Tsipras's position is anymore. We have received twenty of them the last day, and every hour has changed. How credible can we still be? How credible is it to lend money to a government that is simultaneously trying to declare the current state debt illegal? Who lends to a country that later declares that debt illegal? How stupid would that be? The patience of every responsible European leader is therefore exhausted, even among the socialists, except here, apparently. Let me give you the example of the Italian Socialist Prime Minister Renzi, who says that in Italy early retirement schemes were not abolished in order to allow the Greeks to retain their own. For information, in Greece, the retirement age for men is 55 years and for women at 50 years, for heavy-duty occupations. The heavy professions there are about 500, with radio presenters and hairdressers among others. We finally have a responsible government here that tackles the problem and carries out a genuine pension reform. We will all work longer to halve the cost of ageing, in order to ensure that everyone gets a decent pension. We'll make sure a pension is guaranteed. That's a big difference, isn't it? Those who now have to work longer and pay more taxes, I would not look in the eye to ask to pay off the Greek debt and postpone or postpone the reforms in Greece, so as not to ask Greece for any real reforms. Mrs Almaci, Mr Van der Maelen, putting people above the figures, that is easy to say. I think the numbers should be in the service of the people. All those governments that work according to your reasoning all have the same problem: they run out of other people's money. Therefore, Prime Minister, I ask you what you can and will do to continue to defend the interests of our taxpayers, to force the necessary reforms in Greece and thus to give the Greeks back a future and a future, to tackle clientelism and to enable a framework for investment.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-02-54-plenair-ip060x.u8	Colleagues, two weeks ago, I was in Athens. I met the parliamentarians there, but most of all I met the workers, the pensioners, the people who are very worried about their future. The situation there is very serious, it has deteriorated because over the last eight years pensions have been reduced by 48 per cent in that country. We are at 48 % reduction in pensions, this is today's debate! A reduction of 48% on the pensions of the workers and servants in that country, that's what it's about! And now the troika demands that pensions in this country be further reduced. This is completely unacceptable! That is the heart of the debate. Prime Minister, I ask you very clearly: how long will we continue to interfere in this way in the internal affairs of a country such as Greece? What are Tsipras being blamed for? What do we feel against the Greek Prime Minister here? The only thing we can blame him for – and I know that in Belgium, we are not used to it – is to keep his word. It's the only thing! Indeed, when, in Greece, a prime minister undertakes not to raise the pension age to 67, he fights not to apply it. In Belgium, on the other hand, when a prime minister says that he will not raise the pension age to 67, the first thing he does is raise the pension age to 67! We have to stop this hypocrisy. The question of whether or not Greece will be able to repay its debts is now out of date. As you know, it will not be able to repay its debts, which represent 180% of its GDP. Today's issue is politically serious. Our government wants to punish all the peoples of Europe who refuse the dictates of austerity. We want, through the Greeks, to punish the Spanish, the Portuguese and the Irish. That Europe of the hard cuts, of the money and the imposition of a policy of saving against all those peoples, cette Europe-là, nous nüs nüs nüs voulons pass! That is the question that is being asked today: do we want a two-speed Europe? I know the MR doesn't like to hear it. You do not want a Europe of solidarity, and that is outrageous! The question today is this: will we continue to interfere in the internal affairs of this country? Greece is still, even if it is not on the right, a sovereign country that will decide for itself the path it wants to follow. When a referendum is called in Greece today, I see it saying: "Oh, this referendum! We don't know what's going to happen to him." The Greeks are well aware of the question that will be submitted to them on Sunday. The question will not be whether to leave Europe or not. If you want to draw that conclusion, it is your responsibility, the right. The question that is asked of the Greeks today is: "Do you want to continue with this austerity that will further aggravate the economic crisis?" I say it and I hope that many people in Europe, but certainly a majority of Greeks, will vote no, will vote on Sunday, and we will have to take responsibility. Minister, what are you going to do after the referendum? Will you finally agree to reopen real debates on the management of the Greek question, or will you follow Mrs Merkel, who does not negotiate anything at all and who wants only one thing, continue to apply the troika memoranda of recent years.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-02-54-plenair-ip060x.u9	Mr President, Prime Minister, I would particularly like to congratulate Mr Van der Maelen on his membership of PvdA/PTB-GO! Now he can also go on thinking to his heart's content in slogans in order not to have to think about real solutions. In fact, I wonder what happened to the Socialist International when President Crombez can say that Dijsselbloem is an amateur. The Socialists, of all people, are coming here this afternoon to tell us that it is a disgrace that we are going to clean up socialist rubble in Greece. I find that a very strange situation. Mrs Almaci, you are here screaming murder and fire, week after week, in every committee and in every plenary session, how much fraud must be dealt with. You're right. However, if we want to do the same in Greece, you do not agree. That's a very strange proposition. That's two sizes and two weights. It is not easy for the Greek people, with whom we sympathise very much. They also have a great loyalty to the European Union, that wonderful project of peace, a European Union that has shown great solidarity. So our group does not agree with those who say that it has been enough, that there has been enough solidarity. Solidarity in the Union, as in Belgium, is a daily task. The Greeks are faced with a government that is very fickle and unable to compromise. What's that bet? The commitment is precisely the rescue of Greece by the EU. We must also tell the Greeks that. If a government with the greatest irresponsibility throws so nuanced, difficult global debate on the street without any nuance, which is going to strengthen nationalistic feelings, then we are far from home. The louder one waves a flag, the harder that flag stick amounts to the back of the ordinary population. There is also self-interest. The whole situation also has a major impact on our economic growth. We must not forget that if Portugal and other countries were to be infected, what that would mean for early growth in Belgium. Minister, we must keep our finances in order. You said in committee this week that there is a medieval tax in Greece. It should also call on us in Belgium to constantly modernise. In this sense, the debate on the tax shift cannot be seen in isolation. On this point, too, we urge the government to do something about it. Sometimes it is said that we are guardians of democracy. Do the Greeks not have the right to speak through a referendum? You know the attitude of CD&V. A referendum is a very imperfect instrument. The Greek leaders are already fleeing the flag and saying that if they do not like the outcome of the referendum, they will simply stop. Prime Minister, in what slope will the Belgian Government sign up to save the euro area in its entirety, in order to safeguard European solidarity? Where do you see openings to come up with a constructive solution with everyone?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-02-54-plenair-ip060x.u10	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, a few hours ago or a few days ago, an opposition MP said that in the election campaign, the PS behaved like Ecolo. When he's in government, he behaves like the MR and when he's in opposition, like the PTB. We had proof of that this afternoon. [[Applause on the benches of the majority]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-02-54-plenair-ip060x.u11	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank various speakers, in particular those who spoke nuancedly during the debate. Three points are important. Solidarity is our first clear commitment. Two other commitments are responsibility and trust. We have worked on these three points of good faith, with all the European partners. Contrary to what I have heard, on the side of the table where we were, with those who defended responsibility, solidarity and trust, there were indeed officials such as Mr Dijsselbloem, Mr Moscovici, Mr François Hollande, Mr Renzi and, as I know, they do not represent what you describe as the European right. Yes, it is correct that in recent weeks and months there has been a strong commitment in the Eurogroup and the European Council to offer an opportunity to the Greek Government. I have met Mr Tsipras a few times in recent months. The first meeting was an opportunity for him to make a clear commitment. He has told us that he wants to stay in Europe, to commit himself and to know that the situation is difficult. In recent months and weeks, however, we have had to identify the impossibility of making and fulfilling concrete commitments. Those are the facts, that's the reality. That is not the view of the Belgian Government. That is a more general observation. I want to be very open and clear. I think Mr. Tsipras is playing with fire. That is the reality. I would like to react with the necessary nuance to the inquiries that have been addressed to me. Yes, it's a political discussion! It is technically prepared by institutions. It is discussed in the Group of Finance Ministers and in the European Council. And, Mr Crusnière, as I said in the opinion committee on European Affairs, I strongly advocated to the European Council that this debate should be seen as a political and not exclusively economic and monetary debate, but a debate that also has geopolitical consequences. Clearly, this debate must be a political debate, and it must be assumed as such. Yes, we need reforms! Indeed, when a number of countries, and therefore taxpayers, mobilise €321 billion, including €7.2 billion for Belgium, this is taxpayers' money. It's not money that falls from heaven. I have the feeling that, for some today, it's money that falls from heaven! It is the money of the taxpayers, who pay taxes in the partner countries. I have also heard that the sovereignty of Greece is particularly crucial. I share that view. The sovereignty of a country is particularly important, but sovereignty also means that one is and remains responsible. Was that the case? No, I haven't had that impression in the last few weeks or months. The sovereignty of the Greek government was not sovereignty on the basis of responsibility. Indeed, we call for a commitment to implement economic and fiscal reforms in the fight against corruption, and for the strengthening of the tax administration, which is an extremely important issue, towards social financing to ensure the sustainability of social protections in Greece. That requires decision-making, today, and that is what we want to encourage. We have also indicated that, for us, the debate on debt rescheduling can only take place if the Greek Government takes responsibility. However, this view is very much shared within the European Council or within the group that brings together finance ministers. I can only see in this Parliament a divergence of approach between the opposition on the one hand and the majority on the other. And I sum up by saying that we are determined to remain united, to keep our arms open in an attempt to find solutions that guarantee Greece's ability to remain in the euro area, to be able to fully assume its responsibilities, but that also implies the Greek government's willingness to fully assume the need for reforms in Greece. Finally, solidarity is expressed first and foremost towards the Greek people. A sum of €321 billion has been mobilised to give hope and optimism to the Greek people. But if we are to reach an agreement that will bring this hope and optimism to fruition, there must be a government in Greece capable of fulfilling its responsibilities. This has not been the case in the last few days!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-02-54-plenair-ip060x.u12	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have indeed had exhausting weeks in the Eurogroup, weeks during which we have constantly asked our Greek colleagues was what they wanted. We pointed out that the second programme was under way and that it contained elements which they did not wish to see. We asked them to tell us what they wanted so that we could consider what we could change in that programme. However, we have never received a specific answer. There is no policy with ideological slogans. We have asked for specific proposals to amend the current programme, but they never came. Last Saturday we found that a zero point had been achieved. We were no longer able to get out of it and the programme would therefore lapse. Then the referendum has come and we have again tried to get things moving. We were once again confronted with a very strange situation when the Greek Government informed us, through Mr Varoufakis, that we wanted a mandate from the people. In other words, at the moment he has no mandate. How can one negotiate with someone who himself says he has no mandate from his people and turns to the people to obtain a mandate? That is a fundamental contradiction in the attitude of the Greek Government, hence the decision to silence any form of discussion until after the referendum. All the decisions and positions taken in the eurogroup were unanimous. Eighteen countries have unanimously adopted the same attitude towards what the Greeks came to tell us and also towards what they did not come to tell us. This brings me to the referendum. Once again, it was a very serious concern for the Eurogroup in unanimity last night that the Greek people should not be told what to say. Firstly, last Friday the Greek negotiators themselves left the negotiating table. Apparently, no one in Greece knows that. Secondly, what is it really about in that referendum? The Greek Government claims that a package of measures had been agreed. That's not right. There was a package on the table that had to be discussed further and certainly not passed past the Eurogroup of Finance Ministers. So what is the Greek Government going to present to its people on Sunday? In any case, it is a fact that if negotiations were to start on a new programme, we could only see that the reality is different than 48 hours ago. Greece is now in default. The second programme has expired. What is also often forgotten in the discussion is that while there were clear signs of economic recovery when the Tsipras government took office, they disappeared completely today. More than ever, there has been a disastrous economic situation, not least because of the back-tracking of that government on the matters that had already been agreed and implemented. With regard to the programme agreed between Greece on the one hand and Europe and the IMF on the other, I often hear as criticism that this has brought the country to the brink of collapse. In response to this, I can make two observations. Firstly, Ireland, Spain and Portugal are climbing out of a deep valley on the basis of very similar programmes. Those countries are fulfilling their obligations. If we were to make frivolous concessions to Greece, I can assure you that this would certainly not be taken away by those three countries. Secondly, we are pretending that the programme, as agreed, would have been implemented, but that is an apology for the expression 'the purest nonsense'. This programme has been implemented at most in part, namely, indeed, in terms of a number of savings. However, this programme also includes reforms of the economy, the public sector, the labour market, the health sector and the pension system. I would like to say nothing about the much-needed reform of the system of tax collection. These cases have not been dealt with much or nothing. Shooting the program is therefore shooting at a ghost, because that program is at most very partially implemented. Greece would be much better today if that programme had been implemented, just as in the three countries I mentioned earlier. Now I come to the referendum, yes or no. We hear from the Greek Minister of Finance that if the result of the referendum is yes, his government will implement the programme in question. That is, of course, very unbelievable. How can the Minister carry out a programme he does not want and which he wants the people to reject? That is absolutely unbelievable. If the result is no, then the confusion is a good thing, because it is clear from the statements made by the Greek Prime Minister or the Greek Minister of Finance that the Greek Government is going to adopt exactly what position it is going to take. Finally, Mr Varoufakis has asked the question several times in recent days: 'Can democracy and monetary union coexist'. Can monetary union and democracy go hand in hand? His answer seems to be no. My answer and the government's answer is clearly yes. Yes, monetary union can even strengthen democracy, but on one condition, namely that everyone within that monetary union takes responsibility. That is exactly what the Tsipras government has certainly not done in recent months and weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-02-54-plenair-ip060x.u13	Mr President, first of all, I would like to remind Mr Deseyn and Mr Dewael that they too and their parties bear responsibility for the situation that began in 2010. Colleagues, from CD&V, Christian Democrats have ruled in Greece for at least as many years as socialists. Mr Dewael, it was under the responsibility of former Prime Minister Verhofstadt and with the knowledge of the Finance Minister of that time, Mr Reynders, who said that they knew that the Greek budgets were a mess, that Greece was incorporated into the European Union. Take responsibility, too. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate we are having today is not about the programme agreed in 2010. Indeed, we Socialists have agreed to this. However, today's debate is about whether we want to face the truth that the 2010 programme is not working. The neoliberal recipes you apply to Greece are wrong. Today it has been proved that the majority parties and the government do not want to leave the neoliberal recipe and want to push Greece and its inhabitants even deeper. I will conclude with a concrete proposal. On Tuesday, a new exchange agreement for tax information with Greece was approved in the Finance Committee. Equally illustrative for Minister Reynders, this is the following. When it was approved, I asked the Minister whether we were going to help Greece in its fight against tax fraud and whether, on the basis of this agreement, we would let the Greek tax authorities know how many Greeks have fled to Belgium with their capital since 2010 to hide behind banking secrecy. Do you know what his answer was? They should grant tax amnesty. So, ladies and gentlemen, it is clear. This majority is hard, bone hard for the ordinary Greek but oh so soft for the rich Greeks who flee Greece with their money.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-02-54-plenair-ip060x.u14	Prime Minister, you are right, the classic tripartite has completely failed in recent years, especially in Greece's approach to the banking crisis. Indeed, the parties are interchangeable. For me too, it was sometimes unclear who was liberal and who was Christian Democrat, and I am sorry, who was socialist. Let me answer punctually. We are witnessing an embarrassing spectacle here. All banks play political games on the hood of the Greeks and on the hood of the European project, which is still close to my heart. EUR 321 billion, you say, Prime Minister. You are well aware that 90% of this went to the big banks. 90%! Then don't tell me you're so fond of the Greeks. When you say: "The playing time is over," it's very clear that you didn't really understand. The article I gave you last time makes it clear that Greece has gone from the lowest suicide rates to the highest. You didn't read that, let alone pass it on to Minister Van Overtveldt. I noticed something. The discourse he and you bring are very different. Mr Van Overtveldt, if Mr Varoufakis does not have a mandate from the Greeks, then you do not have one on our behalf. You have both been designated by your government. I would prefer you to translate that dogmatic attitude, because you do not represent our group very clearly! As regards the position of the N-VA, the minister who has now negotiated in the eurogroup, he said in 2010 that he is in favour of a Grexit. Verhofstadt also said that Reynders knew that Greece's budget had been tampered with and that the recipes that are now being applied are not working. Mr Prime Minister, you did not answer the question whether you would follow that recipe further or not. There is a quote from Einstein: "Insanity has always continued to do the same and yet expect a different result." That's what this government is doing. It is disastrous for Greece and disastrous for Europe. That is what this government is doing, rather than working on a solution, with a shared responsibility. I started by saying: reform: yes, in Greece, but also in Europe. Apparently, you are playing the same game as some Syrian ministers: staring into each other's eyes until someone collapses. The Greeks are the victims of that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-02-54-plenair-ip060x.u15	Mr President, I heard Mr Van der Maelen say at one point that the Greeks have forged their figures and he nods yes, and that the Belgian Government at that time knew and allowed it. Then who is the main responsibility in this? The one who plays with fake cards or the one who allows fake cards to be placed on the table? In order to deliberate Greece, a certain degree of voluntarism has been assumed in Europe at some point. Mr van der Maelen, if we are in a currency union and we want to earn it together with several Member States, the euro, then we have to move economically in a certain direction. Reforms are then needed and all these reforms have not been unilaterally decreed, but they have been established in successive consultations between Heads of State or Government and monitored by the European Commission, which has made clear to the various Member States what to do. My point is that the Spanish, Portuguese and Irish have done so and that the Greeks have failed to accept their responsibilities. That's the bottom line. I must not say that your fellow Members of this House are in positions of responsibility in Europe. Is that a bagatel? It must be fun there in the meetings of the socialist international or your group, if you meet Mr Dijsselbloem and Mr Moscovici there. Here was once said: "Who is Olli Rehn?" Well, Mr Moscovici is the successor to Mr Olli Rehn and he decrees exactly the same thing. Mr Gabriel is responsible in Germany for the Social Democrats. What do you say at these European meetings? That they're all neoliberals? What do you say if you try to have some credibility here in this country? I have said it many times: do not fall short of what you worshipped yesterday! I challenge you: from the reports of the meetings of the nuclear cabinet and the Council of Ministers, get the comments of the Socialists when they were in the government on the recipes that are being discussed today. I would simply like to say to the friend of the Communists, the comrade, that try to convince the Greeks to reduce defence expenditure, which is the second highest in Europe. Try to convince them of that. What do you mean, there can be no more savings on public expenditure? I must not interfere with internal Greek politics, but I am united and concerned about the Greek people. If Mr Van der Maelen gets nervous, he's wrong, that's how people see it. His whole body language betrays it: he has a bad message. (Mr Van der Maelen interrupted Mr Dewael) Mr President, this is not possible! Mr Van der Maelen must at least allow me to express my last sentence.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-02-54-plenair-ip060x.u16	I didn't say anything myself, Mr Dewael. Would you like to finish?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-02-54-plenair-ip060x.u17	It must sting, it must hurt, Mr Van der Maelen. On Sunday, the Greeks can make it clear that they do deserve better than the Tsipras government.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-02-54-plenair-ip060x.u18	Mr President, Prime Minister, Minister of Finance, in view of the seriousness of the situation for Europe as a whole, and the Greek people, your answer lacks height and voluntarism. Prime Minister, without wishing to take sides with any of the political forces involved, the use of slogans such as the one you used to initiate your intervention is inappropriate. You use hollow formulas, you make comparisons that are not. Mr Finance Minister, is the situation of the Spanish, Portuguese and Irish peoples today, particularly with regard to poverty and employment, desirable for Europe as a whole? No! I wasn't asking for responsibility to be blamed on each other. I wasn't just asking you to open your arms, but not just to keep your arms swinging in the face of the situation. Mr Prime Minister, I have asked you to take your responsibilities as Head of State, to propose to your colleagues, Heads of Government, the organisation of a European summit to combine the acts with the words. You replied that this was not a technocratic question, but a political one. In this case, why are the Eurogroup, the IMF and the ECB in charge of the negotiations? Why don't you and your fellow heads of state put solutions on the table. Indeed, Grexit is not an option, austerity has shown its limits. We must be able to reinvest, give Greece time to reenchant the European project. Without that, we will not get out of it. I'll give you a copy of the interview given by former Nobel Prize winner Joseph Stiglitz to the Times. On this occasion, he made it clear that those who have introduced and forced austerity policies towards Greece have criminal responsibility for the situation in Greece and that this would not be achieved without a rescheduling of Greek debt and reinvestment policies to restore the economy of Greece and of Europe as a whole.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-02-54-plenair-ip060x.u19	Mr President, Prime Minister, Minister of Finance, Mr Dewael, I do not hide from you that I am disappointed and sad after hearing such comments. But as we must always keep hope, I turn to the CD&V and invite him to read the intervention of Romano Prodi in La Repubblica published today. He drew attention to the problem of Greece and called on us to do everything possible to ensure that Athens did not become Sarajevo. Prime Minister, when will the government finally look to the future? When will this majority finally turn its gaze towards the future? When you're in trouble, you're always going back to the past, you're going back to some points, you're criticizing the opposition by showing incoherence. On the one hand, you say that you are glad that the PS is in opposition because with the PS there is nothing we can do, and on the other hand, as has been the case today, you say that, when the PS is in power, it adopts the policy of the MR. You really should know! What we want, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the government, is to act, not to do the tricks as we see here. What we are asking for is solidarity. And not solidarity in words as we see here, but solidarity in actions. No one seems to take into account the social, psychological and historical cost of exiting Greece from the euro area. Your answer today illustrates one thing: Belgium has lost its credibility under this government in defending another Europe. Unlike you, your predecessor has always publicly insisted that if we helped Greece, it was to see it live and not to see it die. No people have made as much effort as the Greeks. All your position allows is to provide palliative care to the Greek population. My group supports those who want a change in European policy and who want to make the European project live. That's not your case. Whether yes or no prevails, the European project will emerge as a loser of this purely intergovernmental logic.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-02-54-plenair-ip060x.u20	Mr Prime Minister, Minister, if this has not been the case for some, it is now clear to everyone. As far as the Greek Government is concerned, who still believes these people? That's more obvious than ever. We must therefore make it clear to the ordinary Greeks that we are united and will remain united. I repeat the verdict of committee chairman Juncker. There is EUR 35 billion ready for investment in Greece, in growth and jobs for the ordinary Greek, so that it will have a new future. This can, of course, only be achieved after some necessary reforms in Greece. These reforms must tackle clientelism, ensure that taxes are finally collected, which is still not the case today, and that a market economy is finally created. That's obvious. In the meantime, we're out of patience. The patience of all European leaders is gone. I repeat our Finance Minister's remark that there was unanimity among the 18 leaders of the euro group. No one believes in agreements with Prime Minister Tsipras, not even the European Socialists anymore, except for two Socialist party leaders in Europe, Elio Di Rupo and John Crombez.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-02-54-plenair-ip060x.u21	Mr President, Prime Minister, Minister of Finance, I think we are doing another reading of the negotiations over the past two weeks. I see that the Syriza government has made more and more concessions, and you know that. He arrived at each meeting with additional concessions, falling over 90 per cent of his program. At one point, there was even a clear agreement on the table, but Ms Merkel and the IMF intervened. The IMF has made it clear: either it is the troika's agreement, or it's nothing! In Belgium, we are used to conducting negotiations with trade union organisations with no room for manoeuvre, but at international level, this should happen differently! In January 2015, the Greek people gave a clear signal. He no longer wants the troika's political programmes and memoranda imposed on him. It was with this mandate that a democratically elected government came to negotiate with the Ministers of Eurozone. The only result you would have accepted is a complete withdrawal of these claims! We have to tell the Belgian people what it's going on! The Syriza government has put an increase in corporate tax as a proposal on the table. You, Mr. Van Overtveldt, intervened to say that you did not want it! The Syriza government said it did not want an increase in VAT. You intervened to ask for an increase in VAT to 23%! If an increase in VAT were to boost the economy, that would be true, Mr Van Overtveldt! The Syriza government intervened to ask to reintroduce the right to collective labour agreements. The Greek Government is asking for the right to re-introduce collective agreements in its country. You have wiped away every form of proposal to revive the economy in Greece. I talked about sovereignty. A destabilization manoeuvre is being carried out at the moment in Europe and, in particular, by our Government. It aims at a democratically elected government. I had sincerely believed that such political events belonged to the past. That foreign governments interfere in the internal affairs of a country, that prime ministers meet now opposition parties to prepare for the post-Syriza – and pseudo-left parties are complicit in it, I criticize it – is a real scandal! It is not because all traditional parties are manoeuvring that our responsibility is not engaged. I say clearly no to the destabilization of the Greek state. And I say this to the Greek workers: the Belgian people support you. From the bottom of our hearts, we cry: not to this liberal Union! On Sunday, our heart will be with us!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-02-54-plenair-ip060x.u22	Ladies and gentlemen, you have heard it. We fully agree with all parties from the majority and opposition that any reform must offer the ordinary Greek a better future. All the reforms have so far been mutually agreed. We should not pretend that the EU and all the institutions are some kind of military occupying force that Greece wants to take over. It is pointed out that the country has deteriorated on a number of economic parameters. Imagine if there had been no European solidarity. Then perhaps Mr Van der Maelen's dream had come true and Greece had long been an economic enclave of Russia. Mr Temmerman, the EU must donate for the greater interest, for the future of the continent. Appointments have to be kept. The Greek government is already throwing in the towel. That's not a good sign. People are getting nervous because exactly one does not seem to understand that democracy has many forms. Apart from the Greeks, there is also a European democracy. I really hope the two don't turn out to be opposites. We wish the European leaders, and in particular the Greek owls, much wisdom in the coming days.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-02-54-plenair-ip060x.u23	Ladies and gentlemen, you will have noticed that I have been rather lenient in monitoring speaking time. Out of respect for the Rules of Procedure, I will apply it again from now on.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-02-54-plenair-ip060x.u24	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the terrible attack on El Kantaoui near Sousse last Friday, which killed 38 people, including a Belgian, 30 British, after the no less bloody Bardo attack last April, which killed 22 people, shows how much Tunisia is now facing a terrible terrorist challenge. It is known that Tunisian jihadists operated from training camps in Libya and that they are affiliated with the Islamic State. We also know that Tunisia is targeted because it is a democracy, through its tourism sector, because it has a fragile economy that is trying to rebuild. And Tunisia is calling for help. Tunisia has been calling for assistance for several months. It calls for assistance from the international community. She called for help from Belgium, which was a friendly country with Tunisia, and especially since Tunisia was trying to rebuild its democracy. Tunisia makes five requests. In any case, there are five areas in which we could help him. First, we could help him through our military cooperation, as we have done previously through special forces. We could renew this exercise. I know the Minister of Defence was not opposed to it. Secondly, we could help him through the intelligence services, and this is in particular at the request of Mr de Kerchove, the European coordinator on terrorism. I think you have received it and there are very clear requests for military intelligence. Thirdly, we could help him through the police for border control. I regret that your Minister of the Interior postponed his planned trip a few weeks ago. I think it would have been important for him to be there at the beginning of June as planned. Fourthly, as far as the economy is concerned, you know that Tunisia has a debt to Belgium, a small debt of 25 million euros. We are not talking about the Greek debt of 7 billion. The previous government, together with Tunisia, had imagined turning this debt into economic investment in that country. Fifthly, and I have already often argued on this issue, Tunisia is asking to be able to be a partner in Belgium's cooperation. I would like to ask you once again whether it is possible in the future to be a partner in Belgium's bilateral cooperation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-02-54-plenair-ip060x.u25	Mr Prime Minister, the abominable attacks that were carried out near Sousse on 26 June are unfortunately not the result of chance. They follow those of the Bardo, in the same will of what I call the "pseudo-Islamic State" or rather the "naz Islamists" to kill the Tunisian economy by any means. It is in this way that Daesh intends to sabotage the country, which so far appears to be the only success of the Arab Spring through its process towards a secular and democratic state. In this regard, I would like to point out that the Muslim State is also the most advanced in terms of women's rights. Let us recall the Personal Status Code, which dates back to 1956 and was signed in what is now the residence of the Belgian ambassador in Tunis. The attacks of the Bardo Museum had already done a lot of damage, dissuading many tourists from opting for a holiday in Tunisia and forcing travel agencies to change the itinerary for their cruises in the Mediterranean. The ambassador told Mr Delizée and myself that, for the moment, cruises are no longer stopping in Tunis, but in Malta, which is obviously a terrible loss of profits. The new estimates of economic damage calculated as a result of the Sousse attack are dramatic: at least €450 million in losses for 2015. There are 14 per cent of the Tunisian labour force working directly or indirectly in the tourism sector; this represents 7.5 per cent of GDP. Today, as my colleague Mr Dalllemagne has said, the diplomatic relations between Belgium and Tunisia are excellent and we are still providing various aids for the functioning of the country. First of all Community aid, in areas such as culture, but also financial aid through the United Nations Development Programme. It is in this context that I would like to ask you, Prime Minister, about the initiatives Belgium and the European bodies intend to take to help Tunisia socio-economically, particularly within the framework of the Union for the Mediterranean.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-02-54-plenair-ip060x.u26	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would indeed like to confirm that Tunisia is a friendly country with which we have relations in many areas (diplomatic, political, economic), which are solid. I myself, before the elections a few months ago, met with the predecessor of the current Prime Minister. A few weeks before the tragic attacks you mentioned, I had also had a bilateral meeting with the current Prime Minister to see how to consolidate and give new perspectives in the areas you mentioned. The analysis of the situation is simple: in the Mediterranean countries there is the emergence of a new form of threat that can create profound instability. The situation in Iraq, Syria and Libya is a matter of major concern. There is no longer any government in Libya that can truly assume authority over the entire territory. It is a huge territory and we know that the proximity between Tunisia and Libya creates a lot of instability in Tunisia. I will be extremely concrete in my answer. First, we want to strengthen and therefore continue our efforts to cooperate in the field of defence, in particular to allow in 2016 to extend existing initiatives to train special intervention forces. That's one of the important points. Secondly, we also wish to consider, and that was the purpose of a draft visit by the Minister of the Interior, enhanced cooperation in the field of internal policy, police and security. This project existed before the attack was committed. These include strengthening police capacity, providing material, human and technological resources to strengthen border control capacities. It was in this sense that a mission was planned by the Minister of the Interior. It was not suspended on the initiative of Belgium but on the initiative of Tunisia, for reasons of agenda. They asked for us to post this mission, but it will take place. A few weeks ago, Belgium was represented by the Minister for Foreign Affairs during bilateral contact with Tunisia. That is how I can confirm that we are analysing the possibility of turning a debt of EUR 24 million into an investment project. We also want to work to strengthen economic exchanges. We believe that supporting economic development in both countries can also consolidate the necessary steps in the country. Finally, I share your reasoning. It is indeed an attack on a State that was in the process of achieving a democratic transition. It is therefore an attack on fundamental values that are dear to our hearts. That is why we must be mobilised. I conclude with two more points. As you said, I met with the European Coordinator for the fight against terrorism, Mr de Kerchove. At my request, we have taken two clear and strong initiatives in recent days. On the one hand, we have mobilised an additional EUR 40 million to support security efforts in the broad sense and justice, in particular in the fight against terrorism and radicalism. This is a country-specific approach to protecting the security of our citizens. On the other hand, I am fully mobilized with a few other European states, so that cooperation with Tunisia can start with a coalition of European States of good will. France, Germany and Great Britain have already indicated their intention to work in this direction. Last weekend, I told David Cameron that we will fully support this cohesion approach, within the framework of this policy, to strongly support Tunisia, even if it is not one of the partner countries, through structured cooperation in the various areas I have just mentioned.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-02-54-plenair-ip060x.u27	Prime Minister, thank you for your answer. I am pleased with the cooperation that you are announcing. I hope that it will be translated into reality, because it is indeed an attack on democracy, on our values and on Europe. It is also our interests that are at stake there, at the borders of Europe. I really count on you to ensure that all the resources we have to strengthen security, democracy in Tunisia, are implemented. Nevertheless, I regret that in the area of military cooperation, efforts are delayed until 2016. I do not think that an intermittent war should be waged in these areas against the jihadist threat. We have already returned from Jordan for budgetary reasons. We have returned from Tunisia as well as a number of countries. It is important to take the jihadist threat seriously and to take it up to its level. In order to do so, it is essential to mobilise all instruments. You did not mention development cooperation. Tunisians want this cooperation to be implemented. We have the opportunity to do so, since only 14 countries have been designated. I really hope that Belgium can now have Tunisia as a partner in cooperation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-02-54-plenair-ip060x.u28	Prime Minister, we are really at the foot of the wall. Indeed, it is about the future of human rights and women's rights in particular. It is about the future of a country that is next to Libya. However, we know how extremely weak Libya is for the time being. Any means you have mentioned to strengthen cooperation, whether bilateral or multilateral, through Europe or other channels, will be welcome. Because I want to believe that an Arab country can also be a democratic country.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-02-54-plenair-ip060x.u29	Minister, last week we all read in the newspapers that no less than 18 companies organised a coordinated increase in consumer prices on our territory between 2002 and 2007. They are not the least companies: Colruyt, Carrefour, Delhaize, Intermarché. They have been cheating on consumers for years, because consumers have been paying too much for a number of products for years. The Belgian competition authority imposed fines of EUR 174 million for that infringement. That is the biggest joint fine ever for the ban on price fixing. It was also the first time that our Belgian competition authority used the friendly settlement system. The fact that three companies have called on the leniency notice proves that multinationals are willing to comply with the law and comply with it. I think we all agree that the competition authority has done a good job. However, there are some comments to be made about the investigation. The facts date from 2002 to 2007. They were brought to light in 2006. Five years later, in 2012, the competent auditor presented his report to the competition authority and only this year has there been a solution to the problem by reaching a friendly settlement. It is still awaiting the approval of the European Commission, and hopefully it will be final. I have two questions for you, Minister. What is your assessment of the length of time during which that procedure was conducted? When can it be completed? Do you consider a greater ability to act for the service? If so, where? Consumers are the main victims in this case. Given that companies have recognised their responsibility through an amicable settlement, is it likely that it will be easier for consumers, for example, to obtain compensation through a group claim?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-02-54-plenair-ip060x.u30	Mr President, Mr Vice-Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, as has just been pointed out, the auditorate has fined many of the most well-known players in the large distribution sector EUR 174 million. They had agreed between 2002 and 2007 to have consumers pay in a totally illegal manner, let us recall, and to cut profit margins on their backs. As a result of the reform of the Economic Code, there is a possibility of a transaction, but it did not succeed until after fifteen years. It's a long time! I have asked you several times about the Belgian Competition Authority, which has been modified and improved. Nevertheless, many problems remain. That's why you have to take this file with you. In a fully liberalised system, that is how a strong regulator is needed to protect the consumer, which is not the case today. Why did the procedure last so long? There are a lot of dilatory manoeuvres on the part of these large companies that can afford dozens of lawyers. Shouldn't the procedure be reviewed to prevent such manoeuvres? The consumer has paid for many years. My colleague said that companies were ready to comply with the law. No, cartels still exist and trials are ongoing. These companies will continue to try to earn profits on the consumer's back. I don't believe in their goodwill. Furthermore, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, consumers must have a return effect. The EUR 174 million fine is not going to be paid to every Belgian citizen. Perhaps you will increase the VAT; it will be even worse. Prevention campaigns should be carried out. But you didn't launch any. Of course, there are information campaigns and mediations. However, some consumer associations face financial difficulties. I would therefore like to hear from you about these avenues in the run-up to the 2016 budget.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-02-54-plenair-ip060x.u31	For five years, Minister, supermarkets and suppliers could systematically overpay consumers for care products by means of price agreements, until Colgate-Palmolive went to the competition authority in 2006 and an investigation was then launched. About ten years later, the verdict now falls, with a sample fine of 174 million euros. It is, of course, a good thing that practices are investigated, stopped and severely punished. The fine is a justified punishment and also an important signal. However, ten years is a very long time to reach a decision. A lot has changed in many organisations and it is therefore difficult to make the current administrations personally responsible for actions taken ten years ago. Moreover, consumers have no message about this. After all, they've been paying too much all these years. Minister, what are your plans to meet the consumer, who has wrongly paid too much all these years? Minister Vande Lanotte has already ensured that the new procedures are handled more quickly in recent years. How will you ensure that the competition authority will play faster on the ball?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-02-54-plenair-ip060x.u32	Mr Minister, first of all, I would like to congratulate the Belgian competition authority for finally having managed to fine 18 companies last week who, for five years, from 2002 to 2007, have kept prices for perfumery and hygiene products in an unauthorized way, which has overpaid consumers too much for those products. I find this unacceptable and I am pleased that the Belgian competition authority has succeeded in taking decisive action. However, that forceful action was only made possible after a legislative amendment in 2013, when the transaction procedure, already mentioned here several times, was introduced. This made it possible to impose a penalty on the undertakings concerned more quickly and more easily. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, if we do everything we can to ensure the competitiveness of our economy, such price agreements and distortions of competition are unacceptable. I am therefore pleased that the current government has included in the government agreement that the Belgian competition authority needs to be strengthened and that the Price Observatory needs to be given more power to conduct proactive market research at prices. Minister, how can you give and strengthen the Belgian competition authority so that competition, the level playing field and fair pricing can be further monitored and price agreements can be countered?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-02-54-plenair-ip060x.u33	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I note that the majority and opposition agree that this is an important statement on Belgian competition law. Everyone agrees that it is very important for both companies and consumers that the Belgian competition authorities make very clear statements. This is important for companies to have a level playing field, so that there is fair competition. This is important for the consumer, because he knows that correct prices are being displayed. There are two distinct elements, the first of which is the problem of the duration of the investigation. The second element is consumers and how we look at the EUR 174 million. As far as the duration of the survey is concerned, it is not 12 or 13 years, but 8 years, and that is still a long time. The question is why it took so long. I have three elements. The first element is that it concerns 18 companies. It was about multinationals. That's taken a lot of research. There was also a great deal of complexity to be cleared up. Secondly, several procedural issues were raised. Even at the level of the Brussels Appeals Court, it has been brought to the fore in order to prevent certain investigations and information from continuing. Thirdly, it should also be borne in mind that the Belgian competition authority has been rather unstable for a long time because it did not know in which direction one would go. A legislative change has been started in the previous legislature, from 2011 to 2013. This has led to instability in the competent authorities. Those are three elements that have taken so long. I fully agree with you that this can and must be done more quickly in the future. This means that the Belgian competition authority must have sufficient staff. That's where 30 people are now active. Next year, the number of units will increase by 20 %, to 50 units. The necessary budgets have been provided for this. This underlines that we want to give the Belgian competition authority sufficient strength, including with regard to staff. The second aspect concerns consumers. The EUR 174 million imposed are an important amount and should be seen as a fine. It is not possible to say that this EUR 174 million must be returned to the consumer. As regards the consumer compensation scheme, in the autumn I will present a draft law implementing the European directive of 17 April 2014 on civil claims in a competition case. In other words, we will provide for a procedure to obtain compensation for the victims before the national courts. It is important that in future we can still have fines imposed by the competition authorities, but also provide for a procedure in which the consumer can obtain compensation under the European directive and Belgian legislation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-02-54-plenair-ip060x.u34	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. We all agree that it is a good thing that such matters come to light. That time span is indeed long, and I hear that you provide more budget and more staff. We are in favour of a single market authority in which you also tip the consumer. This way you get faster information exchange and you can play much shorter on the ball. We would also like to point out that we are in favour of extending the law on group claims. It must be strengthened and made more accessible. In the end, it must be easier for consumers, small businesses and small businesses to recover damage from these cartels. When we talk about the reform of the whole system and also of the competition authority, N-VA wants a strong, independent competition authority, without political interference.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-02-54-plenair-ip060x.u35	Thank you, Deputy Prime Minister, for your answer. I understand that the Belgian Competition Authority will have a budget increase of 20%. You said yourself that, since your dark cup, nothing worked anymore. We'll be watching you on the budget. I had already asked you about this question. As far as the procedure for the future is concerned, I imagine you will introduce a bill. It will be one of your first in consumer protection. I have always said that the poor parent of this government is consumer protection. We haven't seen anything coming yet. For twelve months, unless I am mistaken, there has not been a single bill in this area. It is so easy to criticize the PS and refer to the previous legislature. However, I would point out that the reform of the competition authorities was carried by Mr Vande Lanotte, an sp.a. member. Fortunately, in this government, we fought against the Liberals who were against this reform. In addition, as you pointed out, the Price Observatory is a step forward. It was an idea that took five years to get through this government because the Liberals had long opposed it. What I am blaming you today is not to use this Price Observatory. It is also there to do a margin analysis, to control prices and to force companies at some point. I insist that this government use this price observatory and ask for analyses on products, which you do not do today. And it is the consumer who is the stuffing turkey!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-02-54-plenair-ip060x.u36	Minister, I hope you will continue to follow the case. Of course, I would also have liked to know that you would be handing out the EUR 174 million to the people who have paid too much for five years.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-02-54-plenair-ip060x.u37	Thank you, Minister, for announcing that you will work towards strengthening the competition authority. You take action and increase the number of employees of the competition authority. So she's getting more force. You will also be working on a legislative initiative on consumer compensation in the event of such infringements, which is also a very good initiative. I would like to thank you for that and encourage you to continue to work on good competition control and watchdog, so that we can also ensure greater competitiveness in our economy in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-02-54-plenair-ip060x.u38	Mr. President, Minister, the Vlerick Healthcare Management released its report on innovative drugs on Monday. This report focuses on "targeted" medicines, a new formula of much more effective cancer medicines, but which unfortunately are quite expensive. There was still a colloquium this morning on immunotherapy, which announced truly pharmaminous costs. The report states that in 2020, these drugs are at risk of absorbing 10% of the drug budget, compared to 2% at present. You are working, Madam Minister, to reduce the price of medicines. Yesterday it was reported that 62 medicines would see their prices decrease, saving about 38 million euros for social security and saving patients some 5 million euros. This price drop can cover the 85% increase in the price of innovative medicines now. But in a few years, it will be only 66%. So we're going to have to increase those drug budgets. The Vlerick report calls for planning to cushion this growth in costs over the next few years. What do you think of this report? How are your discussions with the pharmaceutical world? How do you approach innovation in terms of costs to bear?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-02-54-plenair-ip060x.u39	Mr Piedboeuf, the Vlerick study examined what medicines, in the field of oncology, we can reasonably expect in Belgium within five years. In this context, she has studied therapeutic drugs and diagnostics, as we are increasingly moving towards personalized medicine. I am myself engaged in negotiating a multi-year framework for the benefit of the patient. The aim of this multi-annual pact is to anticipate the innovations of tomorrow, precisely in order to guarantee our patients that they will continue to have access to the most innovative therapies, not only in oncology but also in other syndromes. I also use a study to develop a budget framework until 2019. The Vlerick study recommends that future reimbursement decisions for therapies and diagnoses be harmonized. This aspect is also addressed in the negotiations. It is true that we must ensure access to innovative medicines for Belgian patients during a difficult budgetary period. According to the Vlerick study, the usual price reductions in the conventional drug budget make it possible to repay 66% of innovations within five years. This is why the study suggests that lower expenditures should be taken into account in other health care expenditures. Negotiations on the Multiannual Framework began in November 2014 and are still under way. Nevertheless, I can already tell you that the figures and conclusions of the two studies, that of Vlerick and mine, coincide. From a legal point of view, budgets must be drawn up annually and I will consult with all interested parties on ensuring that Belgian patients have maximum access to innovative medicines, while ensuring that solidarity is financially affordable.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-02-54-plenair-ip060x.u40	Minister, since you are doing what you are saying, we know that we can be reassured by your vision in this area. We are very pleased to hear that patients will be able to get the best possible cancer care.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-02-54-plenair-ip060x.u41	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, since 1 July, general practitioners have always had to apply one third of the fee to patients receiving the increased intervention. It is your predecessor, Laurette Onkelinx, who, already in 2012, was at the initiative of a considerable advance in terms of accessibility to health care for all. When it is known that in 2013, one in ten households postponed or gave up the use of care because of lack of financial resources, it becomes clear how essential the measure is. Madam Minister, this measure should have come into effect as of January 1, 2015, but you have decided to postpone it for six months. Today, it is known that this application will be flexible until October 1st to allow for the adaptation, apparently necessary, of the software. On the other hand, this measure should have applied to all health care benefits, but you have decided to limit it to general medical benefits only. In addition, it should have applied to all patients, including chronic patients, i.e. patients particularly affected by the disease, but you also decided that it would be otherwise. Despite all the concessions made – indeed, that is what this is all about – some general practitioners threaten not to apply the paying third party and even to take action if they are not heard. Minister, can you say that you will not come back to this social justice measure? Will sanctions be imposed on refractory doctors? Can you reassure us and tell us that we're not going back under any circumstances? You acknowledged, in committee, that the dentist's bill was sometimes too high and that an extension of the measure to dental care was not excluded. Is this option still being considered? Will people with a chronic disease be able to benefit from this paying third party in the near future?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-02-54-plenair-ip060x.u42	Mr. Senesael, I would like to say that I believe that paying third parties can be an important measure to improve the financial accessibility of health care. Since 1 July, there is a legal obligation for general practitioners to apply it for consultations carried out for the beneficiaries of the increased intervention (BIM). I would also point out that doctors could already apply the third party paying on a voluntary basis for the beneficiaries of the increased intervention but also for other beneficiaries. For certain benefits for which the paying third party is not, in principle, authorised, exceptions may still apply for certain categories of patients or if the patient is in a difficult situation. However, I wanted to hear the doctors' legitimate wish to simplify as much as possible their formalities in case of compulsory application of the third party paying by electronic invoicing. We know that not all physician software is yet suitable for the use of MyCareNet's billing component. It is in order to allow time for production that I accept a period of tolerance until 1 October for the effective application of the compulsory fee-paying third party for the beneficiaries of the increased intervention. INAMI is responsible for contacting software companies to ensure that everything is in order on October 1, 2015. I therefore do not change the measures that have been decided and voted on!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-02-54-plenair-ip060x.u43	Madam Minister, thank you for your response, which demonstrates your willingness to maintain the measures that have been voted on. Indeed, patients should not be forced to choose between shelter, food and treatment. We therefore strongly support this decision, which must be implemented. Finally, we would like it to be extended, as decided, to the chronically ill.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-02-54-plenair-ip060x.u44	Every year 125 000 births are registered in Belgium. Each of these births deserves optimal preparation and guidance, especially since our children have become precious. A Belgian woman has an average of 1.79 children. The KCE has once again pleasantly surprised me with a new directive in which it advocates a demedicalisation of pregnancy care. Pregnancy is not a disease, so the Greens certainly support it. The KCE recommends not to carry out screening studies that offer no greater benefits than disadvantages for mother and child. You know I'm from the field and I've already moved some rocks there. Today there is a new problem, the medicalization of pregnancy. There are more ultrasounds than needed, more prenatal consultations than necessary and more tests than necessary. The pregnancy is becoming more and more stressful. Madam Minister, the medicalisation of pregnancy has been partly caused by an overconsumption of technological studies, and this is accompanied by an intake of pregnancy guidance by the second and third lines. Madam Secretary, you are also a general practitioner. Do you agree with me that there are unnecessary investigations and that the first line is undervalued in the course of pregnancy care? Do you agree with me that midwifes can play a more important role in this, of course together with general practitioners and gynecologists? Will you integrate the recommendations of the KCE and the World Health Organisation into your mother-child path and the pilot projects you announced?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-02-54-plenair-ip060x.u45	Mr President, Mrs Dedry, thank you for your question. On Monday the update of the already existing Knowledge Centre directive on prenatal care appeared. As you may have noted, the evidence-based approach is also at the heart of my health policy. The carefully prepared recommendation of the Knowledge Centre therefore enjoyed my particular attention. The medicalisation for the follow-up of an uncomplicated pregnancy is rightly re-charted here. The directive is a good signal and can be an incentive for gynecologists, general practitioners and midwifes, in order to bring the medicalisation of prenatal follow-up into line with the fact that pregnancy should not be approached as a disease but as a special condition of a healthy woman. As stated in the Directive, the provision of information to pregnant women is crucial. Parent empowerment, so that an informed choice can be made, is therefore at the heart of the recommendations. The first step in the optimization of the mother-child path is to carry out a reorganisation of postnatal care. New models of care, such as a shorter hospital stay and the use of other care facilities, you have named the midwives, will be analysed. This reorganisation is also based on and supported by the recommendations of the Knowledge Centre on the organisation of postnatal care. In the coalition agreement, we committed ourselves to effective, quality and patient-proof care. As you can see, this commitment is being respected. A possible waste of resources, by investigating too much and too often, is mapped out by the Directive. It is now possible to examine what measures can be taken to motivate carers to implement the directive in practice, albeit with respect for the free choice of parents to come.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-02-54-plenair-ip060x.u46	Madam Minister, I am pleased to note that we are in complete agreement on principles. I think there is only one point where we do not agree, and that is the unbridled free choice. When patients can immediately go to the second line, this sometimes leads to medicalisation. For the rest, we agree.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-02-54-plenair-ip060x.u47	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, last week the National Pension Committee was officially set up, with due attention. The questions you put to that committee, namely giving advice on the heavy professions, the part-time pension and the credit system, are very important for the completion of the ambitious pension reform we are planning. It was therefore with some surprise that I read this morning that a leading president of a union called this a sham. This is very strange, because when we discussed the draft law this week we were constantly asked by the opposition why there is so little social dialogue with a view to pension reform, while it is clear that, as we have said, it is not enough simply to adjust the parameters. That is why you asked the National Pension Committee to provide solutions for the other elements as well. It is also from this point of view that the draft law that we still have to deal with in plenary on the increase in the statutory retirement age between 2025 and 2030 has been postponed, so that we still have ample time. This is logical, as the funds for pensions are increasingly coming from the general budget, that the consultation is tripartite. The fact that the government is at the table is a consequence of the shift in funding into social security. We hope that the National Pension Committee will be able to give successful advice, because it concerns us all. Everyone is either retired or expects to retire someday. We hope that this will not be postponed. Mr Minister, I come to my questions. Firstly, what timing will the National Pension Committee maintain? Secondly, can you confirm to Parliament, and perhaps also to the trade union leader concerned, that if the social partners fail to come up with solutions, the government and Parliament will decide in good time?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-02-54-plenair-ip060x.u48	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the previous speaker was rather mild and brief in quoting what Mr Leemans says today on behalf of the ACV in a number of newspapers. He says: "The Minister knows nothing about social dialogue." There is much beauty, but in reality he prefers to decide without us. He's also talking about the National Pension Commission as a sham. In the discussion with my fellow Members, we have repeatedly called for full social consultation on the whole of the pension reform. What's going on now? The majority decides on the biggest and most important issues such as the pension bonus and raising the retirement age. A pension committee will then be set up for the peanuts. Mr Minister, the most important commitment you have made over the last few days is that before the end of this year, on the basis of a list of heavy-duty professions, you want to answer the question of the construction workers, the nurses, the teachers at what age they are entitled to retire. You wish to do so before the end of this year, dixit your statements in committee, but if I hear the VBO representative in committee say that he is very pessimistic and now the ACV, joined by the ABVV, say that there is no social consultation possible, then I have questions. Minister, will you stick to your promise that by the end of this year, on the basis of a list of heavy-duty professions, you will want to amend the law and clarify retirement ages, including for the more difficult professions? Will you take initiatives? Will the government take initiatives? Perhaps Mr Peeters should be brought back into line in order to give social dialogue another chance.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-02-54-plenair-ip060x.u49	Minister, the National Pension Committee is supposed to be a strong link, a key link, a central link in pension reform. It is supposed to be a forum for dialogue that allows for socially acceptable reform. A few weeks ago, I denounced, particularly in this House, that you had made the committee a body that institutionalizes the imbalance between the social partners, putting the workers' representatives in an unacceptable position of weakness. I was denouncing the fact that you were organizing a Canada Dry concert. Ladies and gentlemen, the dice are punctuated: no own-initiative opinion, no field of action locked up, with the antisocial foundations of your reform, the Bacquelaine reform, already decided unilaterally: the reduction of age at 67, the abolition or almost elimination of the early pension for long careers, the abolition of the pension bonus, the extension of the career for the public sector. The social partners, workers' representatives are forced to accept a closed role, a role under control. This committee is only an alibi, a surety of unjust and anti-social reform. You're moving at the pace of load, piece by piece, without listening to the world of work. The social partners are not fooled, as a number of recent comments have shown, and my colleague relayed some of them, in particular those of Mr Marc Leemans, President of the ACV, who says: "dat committee is gewoon een schijnvertoning". This is not the only one; Jean-François Tamellini of the FGTB said nothing else, during the hearings on this Monday in committee. My colleagues here were present. Minister, I'm worried. Is this committee, delivered less than a week ago, still-born? Is he dying anyway? Mr Minister, as a doctor, are you going to save him, resuscitate him, give him oxygen, the oxygen he needs to make proposals on your whole reform, in order to achieve a socially just reform?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-02-54-plenair-ip060x.u50	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, the Act of 21 May established the National Pension Committee, which is composed in a tripartite manner with eight workers' representatives, eight employers' representatives and eight government representatives. The task of this advisory body is to provide opinions on the problems of the structural reform projects of our pension system. This will mainly concern the consideration of penitibility, the introduction of point pensions, the modernisation of the family dimension and the introduction of the partial pension. The dossier on which he is invited to give his opinion will be that of penitibility. As a first step, it will have to define criteria for identifying heavy duties and, in a second step, it will have to examine, in accordance with the government agreement, the extent to which recognition of hardship may be involved in the granting of more favourable pension arrangements. The National Pension Committee was set up on Friday 26 June, after several organisations had informed us of the names of their effective and alternate members. The agenda of the work, starting with the file of heavy work, was established at the first meeting of the National Pension Committee. That is why I am somewhat surprised by Mr Leemans' outburst when he claims that the National Pension Committee would be a sham. If, as Mr Leemans claims, I would like to decide on my own, why, over the last few months, would I have put so much effort into setting up this consultative body as soon as possible, together with creating a framework and releasing resources, which would enable the National Pensions Committee to function as efficiently as possible? I am even more surprised at this failure, given that the ACV has taken a constructive stance during the process of setting up the National Pension Committee. The ACV has appointed its representatives and took part in the first meeting of the National Pension Committee, without ever expressing the criticism I have read in the press today. In addition, I note that Mr Leemans' failure is accompanied by considerations which I do not wish to respond to. I am of the opinion that partisan postures, a priori and easy attacks must be removed. As everyone knows, pension reform is a necessity. What matters to me now is to ensure that social dialogue can continue and that it leads to opinions that will enable the government to take into account each other's positions in pursuing the reforms it has undertaken to implement. I'm not naive. The debates will not always be simple and will take time. As far as timing is concerned, I hope that by the end of the year we can already have opinions on heavy trades, but I do not intend to put a definitive guideline on the subject. I think it is up to the social partners to decide on their own programming. But I am optimistic in nature and I want to believe that thanks to the expertise of the social partners, we will be able to achieve positive results in the interests of workers and pensioners. In any event, I undertake to take into account the views to be expressed by the National Pension Committee. The ball is now in the hands of the social partners. I hope they catch her. It is true that the National Pension Committee is working on a tripartite basis. The federal government sits at the same table as the social partners. This is a new aspect of social dialogue, but does not mean that it would short-circuit social dialogue. On the contrary, it gives all the partners the opportunity to be involved from the start of the process and it will avoid misunderstandings at the end of the negotiations. In any case, I am pleased that Mr Paul Windey, who has been leading the NAR for years, has accepted the presidency of the National Pension Committee. I am convinced that his experience in the field of social dialogue will be very useful. I think his experience offers the best guarantee of success for this new body. With regard to Mr Daerden's question about the Vice-President, which was asked on 19 June 2015, which came back from the committee - I do not know if you knew - I can tell you that the only reason why the Vice-President was appointed is that she is an expert on pensions and not just in the area of supplementary pensions. Finally, as I have already indicated, the National Pension Committee is not intended to comment on the regulations but to deliver opinions on a number of reforms specifically covered by the government agreement. Its role will be to make social arbitrations between different options that will be submitted to it. The consultation on the texts will remain reserved for the usual consultation bodies, i.e. the Management Committee of the ONP, Committee A or the Management Committee of the Independents.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-02-54-plenair-ip060x.u51	Mr Minister, once again the big words were not shunned. I have never understood why we should work as long as we do in neighbouring countries, which is supposed to be seen as an attack on social justice. I understand here that the subject of high-quality occupations, part-time pensions and points system would be peanuts. I am not entirely with that either, but that will probably be up to me. The development of a good, sustainable social dialogue is of the utmost importance to us. Politically, we have outlined the framework. There is plenty of time for accompanying measures. I hope that this social dialogue is also possible. I hope that social dialogue will not be killed by the social partners themselves. I hope they take responsibility. However, if social dialogue fails, it is of course our democratic duty as elected representatives to make decisions. Finally, Minister, I should like to say on behalf of my group that we do not have a negative prejudice against inhabitants of Chaudfontaine in general, nor against general practitioners in particular.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-02-54-plenair-ip060x.u52	Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister for his reply, but I believe that Mr Leemans is wrong. I think he's wrong if he says you don't know anything about social consultation. After all, I have much more the impression that you do not want to know about social dialogue or that you do not want to hear about social dialogue. Minister, I hear you saying that you are working hard on pension reform and the establishment of the National Pension Committee, and that you are surprised by the ACV's statements. The ACV indicated that although there is now a pension committee, it is not desirable to give an opinion on the age limit of 67 years. Last week, a representative of the VBO said in committee that the discussion on the heavy professions would be very difficult. He added that the Minister was wrong in saying earlier that a clear answer could be given before the end of this year to the question of whether, among other things, construction workers, drivers, port workers and teachers will receive a reduced pension. It is remarkable that you are surprised after there is social unrest in this society about pension reform. The social partners are constantly asking to be involved in everything so that at the end of the journey they know what message to send to their members. Minister, I believe that you do not want to be involved because you do not want the social partners to be involved. We will convey the message.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-02-54-plenair-ip060x.u53	Mr President, Minister, I will answer in three points. First of all, penitentiality is a fundamental theme that you are entrusting to this committee, it is clear. It's so fundamental that you don't know about it in your age-deferral bill. Second, you are surprised that the CVA and the GTB are reacting. You think that meeting workers' representatives in your office is about social consultation! It's a little short. Finally, Minister, you are far from the broad support needed for a successful, balanced and socially accepted reform, as advocated by the Committee of Experts. The challenge to this unjust and undemocratic reform will continue, but the views of the workers are of little concern to you, only the opinion of the FEB and UNIZO interest you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-02-54-plenair-ip060x.u54	Mr President, Minister, you will have seen the figures published in the press today and you will have seen, like all of us, that the debt in Belgium has reached a record level of 106.6 % of GDP since 2007, which was the floor level. It is also clear that Belgian debt has increased by 2.2%, which is not negligible. Let us take a country at random, minister, to see what is the increase in other countries. Greece, for example, saw an increase of 2.1%, which is less than that of Belgium. Spain, which is cited as the right European pupil, has seen an increase of 5.6%. That's a little surprising. Let us take another figure, namely the amount of the total debt in billions. What is he in Belgium? EUR 428 billion, while the Greek debt amounts to EUR 317 billion. Here, Belgium has a bigger debt than Greece! Isn't that surprising, minister? Debt per capita could also be taken as a reference. Here we are second in Europe. We get the second highest per capita amount, while Greece is seventh. Mr Minister of Finance of Belgium, I wonder, therefore, whether you are really well placed to do the lesson and be a little bit of the European goggles smurf that is teaching the other members of the Union a lesson. I'm not sure. Perhaps the most interesting thing is to know what are the causes of the increase in debt. That has already been said to you a lot. The causes are austerity policies across Europe that show their failure. Everywhere, with a few exceptions, debts are on the rise. There is also this policy of gifts to capital that goes hand in hand. And finally, these are the banking and financial crises of 2008. Minister, in Greece, there was a debt audit to determine how this debt was potentially illegitimate or even illegal. Would it not be a good idea to also do an audit of Belgian debt to determine how it might be illegitimate, i.e. paid by the population but having benefited a minority layer of bankers or others?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-02-54-plenair-ip060x.u55	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there is still a small difference between nominal debt and debt as a percentage of GDP. The fact that Belgium has a debt of 400 billion and Greece 300 billion – I round up – does not tell you anything! In fact, everything depends on the size of the economy that has to bear the debt, and you certainly know that Greece is double that of Belgium. In doing so, the comparisons you make are not at all realistic or economically sound. The debt rate has increased significantly in recent years in Belgium, particularly as a result of the financial crisis and the sovereign debt crisis. During the period 2007-2014, public debt increased by 20 per cent of GDP. It is true that the consolidation of public finances is a top political priority of this government. This will make it possible to revive the economic fabric on a sustainable basis. I recall that this government is committed to restoring a structural fiscal balance by 2018, with the beginning of a downward trend in the debt rate as early as 2016. The structural improvement in the budget deficit coupled with the strengthening of the nominal growth expected of the economy and the decrease in interest charges is already contributing to the decline in the debt rate from 106.9 % of GDP in 2015 to 102% of GDP by 2018. Moreover, as a result of the recent uncertainties in the financial markets caused by the Greek problem, Belgian bonds have clearly been regarded by the markets as safe havens.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-02-54-plenair-ip060x.u56	Minister, I note that in addition to playing the role of the Smurf with glasses, you also play the role of the joyful Smurf – "it will be better tomorrow" – but with the recipes that have been failures everywhere. About Greece, you're talking about relative terms. But when I say that the debt has increased by 2.2% in Belgium and 2.1% in Greece, it is quite relative terms. Strangely, you didn't answer that. I think you're also a bit of the Smurf farcer, because it's always the same recipes that come. And when I ask you a concrete question about the organisation of a debt audit, you don't answer at all. We should see where Belgium's debt comes from. Who really benefited from Belgium's debt? I can already give you some answers, but I hope you will do this debt audit. These include all the tax and social gifts given to employers: EUR 250 billion in 10 years; market rates applied to debt repayment are significantly higher than the ECB's rates: this would have resulted in 250 billion savings in 20 years; the socialisation of debt in the banking crisis: EUR 33 billion. Will you finally encourage this debt audit? This would help you, I think, to judge more objectively the neoliberal theories that you generally advocate.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-02-54-plenair-ip060x.u57	Minister, it is strange that I have to ask you again about the holiday allowance for disabled pensioners. The increase of EUR 168 in the holiday allowance of that target group is completely offset by the tax administration, which means that the measure misses the intended goal of increasing purchasing power for that very vulnerable group of a few thousand people. You had committed yourself on 21 May to work out a solution to this problem quickly. You also said at the time that it was absolutely not your intention to roam the increase and that that was not the agreement either. Your administration would solve the problem quickly. At that time, I suggested raising the minimum taxable amount so that those concerned would receive a net increase. I don't know what your estimate of working fast is. Maybe the bar is a little higher for me, but can you give me a deadline for the solution? What will ultimately be the solution?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-02-54-plenair-ip060x.u58	Mr Vercamer, you referred to the sitting of 21 May. In fact, I was able to confirm with you that there is a problem in taxing the increase in holiday allowances for taxable persons who receive only a pension or invalidity allowance. This may be the case, in particular, for single taxable persons who, by increasing the holiday allowance, may fall within the scope of the additional reduction for pensions and replacement income. The additional reduction reduces the personal income tax to the difference between the pension or invalidity benefit received and a reference income. That reference income amounts to around EUR 15 500 for taxpayers who only benefit from a pension, and around EUR 17 250 for taxable persons who only receive statutory sickness and invalidity benefits. The application of municipal and agglomerational options to the income tax due may lead to a lower net income after tax than for the increase in holiday allowances. You have quite rightly omitted from your remarks that I pointed out at that time that this is a complex problem, which has been on the rise for many years, long before my arrival, with every increase in social benefits in the welfare envelope. My administration is studying the problem, which is very complex, and makes an assessment of the budgetary impact. It will, of course, be discussed further in the government when it comes to budgetary control and formatting.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-02-54-plenair-ip060x.u59	Thank you, Minister, for your reply, although I was disappointed. You gave the exact same answer today as on 21 May. You are now just building up a little more margin, because the study is still going on, you say. However, the holiday money serves that vulnerable group to increase their purchasing power. Holiday's at the door. So we will completely miss our goal. I urge a faster solution. Just over two months seems to me more than enough to solve something.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-02-54-plenair-ip060x.u60	Mr President, Minister, this spring, this meeting approved the draft law on the 'Devised zones'. The previous government has developed the measure following the closure or disinvestment of some larger factories in Limburg and the Kempen. We think Ford Genk or Heinz and Philips from Turnhout. In order to support this economically affected region, companies investing in that region and creating jobs will receive a 25% reduction in the farm levy. This means a wage cost reduction of 4% to 5%. This is an important incentive, on the one hand, for companies already located in the zone and on the other hand for companies from abroad or start-ups. This zone covers the whole province of Limburg, the Kempen to the port of Antwerp and a piece of Flemish Brabant. In order for these support measures to succeed, a lot of promotion is needed, both at home and abroad. Unknown is unloved. This aid measure has been in operation for several months. Does this process go smoothly? Do you have a view on the number of grants and applications? Are there any signs that this procedure is going to work? What initiatives does the government take to make this measure public? Do you work with the employers' organisations for this? Are these support measures in the dislocated zones, like the notional interest, an asset that you use in your missions abroad with the federal and Flemish authorities?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-02-54-plenair-ip060x.u61	Mr Wilrycx, as regards the state of play regarding the aid for destabilized zones, a cooperation agreement was concluded with the Flemish Region on 3 April. The cooperation agreement allowed the Flemish Region to propose one or more assisted areas. Following the collective redundancies at Ford Genk on the one hand and at Philips and Heinz in Turnhout on the other, the Flemish Region effectively defined two zones around the cities of Genk and Turnhout. As far as the number of files is concerned, today there are 20 files pending for the Flemish Region. Unfortunately, for the Brussels-Capital Region and Wallonia, no dossier is yet under discussion. You also asked about the info sessions. On 21 and 27 April, two information sessions were organised by the Entrepreneurship Agency of the Flemish Region, in collaboration with the employers' organisation VKW, on which the FPS Finance was also present to provide the necessary information. It goes without saying that if there are any additional initiatives in this area from employers' organisations, we will of course support them. For abroad, the FPS Finance has a separate cell that focuses exclusively on the promotion of Belgian tax systems in the broad sense of the word among foreign companies and investors. The cell follows the evolution of taxation as a function of its work and includes in all its communication the measure we are now discussing.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-02-54-plenair-ip060x.u62	Mr Minister, the start has been made with some twenty dossiers in Flanders. These files are being processed. I believe that the promotion of this measure is very important, not only abroad but also in the local authorities. They are often the first point of contact for businesses located in the local business areas. 4 to 5 % of labour cost reduction is not nothing. Perhaps it should be made clear to the companies that there is still something to be done for them.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-02-54-plenair-ip060x.u63	Minister, the war against the Islamic State and the terrorism it spreads on several continents is likely to win first and foremost in Africa. We were among those who, from the opposition benches, supported the government's decision in September last year to detach part of our air force to participate in the coalition of states that, under UN mandate, are waging the war against Daesh. For budgetary reasons, the detachment of the six F-16 bomber fighters was arrested on 30 June. They're back in the country. I confess that, in view of the recent events in Tunisia, France, Kuwait and those we will probably be experiencing in the coming months, this decision not to pursue the mission for budgetary reasons leaves me puzzled. I would like two answers to two essential questions. Do you consider that this decision does not weaken the strike capacity of the entire coalition mobilized against Daesh? Today, is this military capability thus mobilized not weakened by the withdrawal of the air force or the detachment of our air force into this coalition? You suggest that in 2016, you could re-ship an air force detachment alongside other co-operative states. Is that a certainty? Is this an eventuality? According to what specific timetable?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-02-54-plenair-ip060x.u64	Mr President, Minister, something is beginning to move in the defence sector, which is a good thing. The operation in Iraq is about to close. We're pulling the F-16s back. According to page 209 of your coalition agreement, you should come forward with an evaluation, preferably here in Parliament, to see what all our military efforts have led to. There are two ways to evaluate. A first way is to mention the number of flights of the F-16s and the number of dropped bombs. A second way to evaluate is more intelligent and pertinent, especially when it comes to the need to use military means for certain conflicts, but also to realise that a stable solution for Iraq and, indeed, for Syria can only be a political solution. We have read a very interesting piece of Roger Housen's opinion in the newspapers. I got it right here. Roger Housen is a Belgian staff officer with NATO in the United States. What's he writing? I quote: "Instead of sending triumphant messages with meaningless data to the world, our rulers would look more closely at indicators that really show progress on the ground. How many cities and territories has the Iraqi army taken back to ISIS? How many places can the locals live in safety? What political progress has been made? Those are the questions to which we would like an answer from you today. Colleagues, there are three million refugees in Iraq. That's half the entire Flemish population. We're pulling our F-16s back, but we're still training Iraqi soldiers over there. It is crucial that we also train enough people of Sunni religion. After all, we must get the moderate Sunnis in Iraq on our side so that we do not push them into the arms of the radicals of IS. So we can make a difference. I therefore ask you to carry out a thorough evaluation. To what extent have the F-16 pesetas contributed to stability in Iraq? Are we really sensible about what we are doing, the training of military personnel?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-02-54-plenair-ip060x.u65	Minister, the Dutch Government has already decided to extend the air mission against IS in Iraq until July 2016. They will remain present with four F-16 people and a two hundred soldiers. The Dutch are now asking our country to cooperate. They specifically ask for that air mission to be taken over in July 2016. In the meantime, we've completed our mission with F-16. We also have teachers there to train Iraqi soldiers. You have indicated earlier that you would also like to extend the teachers' mission until the end of the year. Minister, can you give us an evaluation of the F-16 mission in Iraq? Can you tell me when the decision will be taken on possible cooperation with the Dutch? Have you sat around the table with the Dutch Government about this possible cooperation? I also liked to have an evaluation of the teachers' mission. Has that been decided yet? When else will the decision be taken to continue the teacher's mission? Now she's scheduled until the end of August.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-02-54-plenair-ip060x.u66	Colleagues, the F-16s came back from Iraq this noon. They landed in Florennes. This does not mean that we are completely withdrawing from the struggle against Daesh. It is really important to continue this struggle, but also to stick to the agreements we have reached in the past. Mr De Vriendt, I come to the question concerning the evaluation of the operation. I know you're always asking for a much broader evaluation than a purely military one. I'm Secretary of Defense. I am making military evaluations, and I will therefore present them to the committee, behind closed doors. I can tell you today that we find that since Operation Inherent Resolve started, 30% of the country has been reclaimed on Daesh. This changes every day, because Daesh hits back, too. That is a fact, and we must face it. As far as the future is concerned, we have indeed prepared a basic agreement with the Dutch. Subject to political approval, we agreed on the continuation of Operation Desert Falcon, i.e. the deployment of F-16. Essentially, we will be keeping ground personnel on the ground right now to support Dutch pilots. Next year we would then take over from the Netherlands. At the same time, as I have announced on several occasions, we are training in Baghdad. There is no control of the origin of the people, but I have been able to establish on the ground that there are people from different backgrounds. It is specifically about the training of the Iraqi army's elite forces that can be deployed later in the fight against terror. As far as timing and political decision-making are concerned, the agreement of Parliament must be obtained in the Netherlands. Those debates are currently taking place. We are in the process of preparing the dossier for the Council of Ministers and will have to decide on a first step. We will not decide on any operations until the end of next year, on the basis of the budget. A decision must now be taken on the first step: keeping a number of people on the ground in the short term. Mr. Maingain, to answer your question about the power of forces on the ground, the contribution of our F-16s was considered very useful by our partners. Perhaps other means would be needed to continue this mission, but that is how it works. As in NATO, there are rotations to allow for long-term operations.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-02-54-plenair-ip060x.u67	Minister, I hear your argument from NATO's missions that everyone should take their share of the intervention at selected times. We're not in this configuration. We are in an emergency situation. The French Prime Minister, Manuel Valls, once again recalled this in statements to the World this weekend and early this week. This is a real war. Maybe I won't use his more unfortunate expression of the war of civilizations. I believe that breaking the continuity of our military effort is a tactical mistake. We cannot pretend to be determined to fight terrorism intermittently! This is not an effective way to achieve the objectives. You are right to say that the air component of our army is appreciated for the efficiency of its work, and that is why we do not sacrifice this continuity for strictly budgetary reasons. There was a budgetary adjustment, which was recently voted on. It was up to the government to use this fiscal adjustment to consider the continuation of its mission in Iraq now.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-02-54-plenair-ip060x.u68	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Even if we were to win that war on the ground, the post-conflict phase is, of course, the most important. That is the lesson we must learn from the conflict in Libya, where we have invested far too little in political stabilisation. You may not have the authority to do so, but you are part of the government. I do not know if Minister Reynders often sits next to you at meetings, but you might whisper something in his ear, pull him to his hair and make sure it is partly your responsibility to have a good political vision because of this government. Finally, Mrs Grosemans, pay attention to the cooperation with the Netherlands. This week, the Dutch Government said that it does not preclude action in Syria, even without a UN mandate, under the guise of self-defense. Let us not go into the swamp with our country. International law must prevail for us. If not, we will be much more against countries like Russia, with all the consequences for global stability.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-02-54-plenair-ip060x.u69	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I think IS, or Daesh, is the greatest threat to our democracy, to our civilisation and to our human rights. Their actions are inhumane and unacceptable. I think everyone agrees with that. This also means that we must continue to work on this. We must not be sidelined. We must continue to fight this battle. Doing nothing is absolutely not an option. Actually, we're stopping there now because we're out of money. That is why I very much hope that cooperation with the Netherlands can continue so that we can share the costs and agree on a turn role. Anyway, even if we share the costs, the budgets will have to be on the table, because a foreign mission costs money. We all know that. That money has yet to be found. I therefore call on the government to shoulder its responsibilities, not only to stop the cruel violence against civilians there, but also to reduce the risk of losing our values, our ideologies, our democracy and our freedom.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-02-54-plenair-ip060x.u70	Minister, the coalition agreement stipulates that within six months of your entry into office you would draw up a long-term vision for Defence. You repeated that ambition at the beginning of February, during the diplomatic days in Brussels. The 2030 strategic plan would be ready by Easter, then it became after Easter and meanwhile the whole thing has moved to an interkabinets working group. There have been very interesting hearings in committee where we have heard from both national and foreign experts. They laid their eggs a while ago and also the generals, whether or not in leaked draft notes, made their contribution. Mr Minister, before the parliamentary recess, you would come forward with that plan. What are you waiting for? Isn't it high time you came out with your plan? Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to dwell on the way in which we work. Minister, you have said several times in the press: "Give me a budget of 1.6 % of GDP and I will say what we are going to do with it." Of course, that's a bit of the world upside down. After all, in a normal political decision-making process, the Minister would be expected to give his views with his choices and priorities and then indicate what budget is attached to them, what he can then submit to Belgian society. That is the right approach to such a complex reform process. You are turning things around, and I think that makes political decision-making difficult. First of all, Minister, what are your choices and priorities? How do you intend to respond to the challenges of the Defense Department? Secondly, what concrete results have been obtained from the inter-kabinets working groups over the last two months?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-02-54-plenair-ip060x.u71	Mr President, Minister, where is your strategic plan for defence? It's floating around somewhere. To tease us a bit, to tickle us a bit, you released the first chapter on the context analysis of our world on your website a few weeks ago. However, it remains awaiting policy measures and a strategic plan from this government for all those who consider international politics and defence to be important. It is also important that time is running out. The question arises as to whether the 2016 budget of Defence will be drawn up, taking into account that strategic plan. After all, the margin is really starting to decrease. It will be necessary, however, because we cannot lose another year. The fact that the strategic plan does not yet have the advantage that the opposition still has time to give advice on a number of elements. Here are my two points of advice. Firstly, work with as many European countries as possible to divide the tasks. There is no point in wanting to increase our own defence budget if there are so many other societal needs. You have already indicated that you want to do so after this legislature, but we need to divide up the tasks and use taxpayers' money efficiently. Second, be brave. Don't leave sacred cottages standing at the Department of Defense if it's not efficient. In this context, I am thinking, for example, of the replacement of the fighter planes, our F-16 gliders. If every country in Europe replaces the fighter planes, we will once again have a surplus with our European defence. There are capacity gaps in Europe, issues in which we need to invest. Why can't it be Belgium, which says to the other European partners what is missing and that we want to make an effort with our modest budget. This may also mean that not every component in the Defense Department can stand up. We shouldn't want to be an army that wants to do anything. We have to divide tasks. We must be brave and, above all, intelligent.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-02-54-plenair-ip060x.u72	Mr President, Minister, at the committee meeting on 27 May you gave the most recent planning on the strategic plan. Earlier, you presented that plan to the government. A political working group was set up to develop a number of elements and to link them to the correct budgets. These strategic choices would be made and approved by the government before the summer recess. After the recess, the further elaboration and interpretation would follow. Minister, we are not far from the recess, so I would like to ask you about the state of play of the strategic plan. Could you explain the strategic plan a little more? What are the broad lines, principles and strategic choices? How do you expect its further development to take place after the recess?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-02-54-plenair-ip060x.u73	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, your questions concern an important subject. The strategic plan for defence, as prescribed by the coalition agreement, was presented to the government on 8 May. So I have done what is in the coalition agreement, Mr Yüksel. The positive thing about the recycling of questions is that the answers can also be recycled. You're trying to imagine things a little differently than they really are. In committee meetings, I have repeatedly said that I made a proposal for environmental analysis, which was approved by the nuclear cabinet. On the basis of this environmental analysis, I have made a proposal on the specific strategic choices that we have to make with regard to our core tasks. I have tabled a proposal on the capacitive content that could be linked to it. This is a proposal that I have made in my capacity as Minister and it is now before us to deal with it. Of course, there is a budget attached to this. It is true that the amount of this budget, as published here and there in the press, amounts to 1.6 percent of GDP. For the next 15 years, I propose that we do no more or less than the average of what our European partners are doing. So it's not that exuberant. I'm not turning things upside down. We have had quite a few meetings recently with the technical working groups. In my opinion, according to the reports I receive, there was always a representative of your party, Mr Yüksel. Those technical working groups have taken steps forward. It is true that an important discussion such as this about the strategic plan requires a government decision. I have always said that there will only be a strategic plan if the government has agreed to a strategic plan. Mr De Vriendt, if you are talking, for example, about European cooperation and more efficient operation, then I am entirely with you. International and inter-departmental cooperation are also essential elements of the proposed plan. However, it must be borne in mind that working together also means paying the bill together. In other words, when one decides to cooperate with the French, the Dutch or the Germans, one must also be prepared to put the necessary money on the table. That's a big and tough discussion. As Minister of Defence, I am very much aware that it concerns very large sums of money. I'm ready for the final discussion and making decisions. It will be a decision of the government and not just of the Secretary of Defense. We'll see what the next few weeks will bring.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-02-54-plenair-ip060x.u74	Mr President, I note that two questions are being asked and those questions are being used to fight in the majority. The Ostend MP doesn't even get an answer from the Minister. You have to do something about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-02-54-plenair-ip060x.u75	Minister, before the united opposition talks about division, I would like to say that we absolutely want to help you and hope that your plan succeeds. We want to give you a help for your strategic plan. Ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about a future plan for defence, about the future of thousands of soldiers, who are rightly concerned today. They do not know what will come to them. They may have to leave on leave with a frightened heart, because they do not know what will happen to their barracks and units and what material they will be able to work with. So time is short, Minister. Our international partners are also looking at us: NATO, the EU, the UN. Will Belgium show solidarity and participate in international operations? The longer we wait, the worse that will be for the image of our country. It is time for you to clarify the world. We all know, ladies and gentlemen, that cooking costs money. Without a budget, we cannot achieve much. Asking for a blank cheque is also not the right way to reform the Defense Department. This applies to all departments today, given the budgetary reality.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-02-54-plenair-ip060x.u76	Minister, I am very pleased with Mr Vande Lanotte's expressions of sympathy. In Ostend he usually doesn't mind if I don't get answers to my questions. All in all, it is a sad spectacle when Veli Yüksel of CD&V complains about the method the government follows. Let me be clear: a defence reform requires long-term support. We have always asked for the opposition to be included in this exercise. After all, expenditure in the defence sector will go on for many years, beyond one legislative term. However, there is no support for the opposition and today I have noticed that there is no support for the majority either.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-02-54-plenair-ip060x.u77	Minister, I read in the newspaper today that the strategic plan has been completed since 6 April. It was proposed to the government, we have already had working groups with defence specialists and now it is still on the government's table. Our defense really needs a powerful and very courageous plan to reform and rescue Defense, to take away the anxiety and give the army a future again. I have no doubt that it will be a very powerful and courageous plan. That's why I call on the coalition partners CD&V, Open Vld and the MR to speed this up and cut the final buttons before the recess.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-02-54-plenair-ip060x.u78	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this morning there was a new episode of crêpage de chignons between two senior officials of the SNCB in the press. This is not the first episode in which those responsible crumble and settle their accounts. But, in the meantime, there are behind these incessant fights, commuters who, yesterday, suffered great delays due to the high heats, who sometimes did not arrive at the right port, or who stayed in the countryside, sometimes for an hour without air conditioning, with the very important heats we know, and the impression that there is no answer to that. This morning, the press reports the crêpage of buns rather than the measures that will be taken to remedy these major disadvantages. That's the first point. Second, there is the summer SNCB version where whole cars are removed considering that there are fewer commuters and that everyone is off duty as of July 1st. As a result, many people stayed at docks, at stations, because they simply could not get on trains with insufficient seats. Minister, what are you going to do about the problems and inconveniences associated with the high heats, which are expected to persist for several days? Are the trains intended to run between 10°C and 23°C? One blow, it's the leaves, one blow, it's the snow, one blow, it's the frost, and now it's the heat. In addition, with regard to summer schedules, do you intend to provide for additional trains so that everyone can travel and go to work in particular?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-02-54-plenair-ip060x.u79	Mr President, Minister, yesterday was a frustrating day for rail passengers. Due to the great heat on the hottest 1 July since 1901 it was exceptional conditions. Nevertheless, there was some error in Brussels. We were faced with huge delays on the track, which affected many. There are still a lot of cars that still don't have air conditioning. Yesterday we were in the chaotic situation in which trains had a huge delay and people stopped in a car without air conditioning at temperatures of 37 degrees. The policy of SNCB is then to remain on the ground, rather than to turn people off at the next station. Madam Secretary, first of all, how do you evaluate the communication of SNCB? I've looked at how people have dealt with this heat abroad. In Frankrijk las ik hoe de SNCF communiceerde: 的With the arrival of the heat wave, disruptions in the traffic of the trains are to be expected, especially in Ile-de-France, because of the high heats which mislead the equipment. They knew that and announced it. In the Netherlands, people communicated: "Go by train to work, take into account delays due to the heat." We have been briefed very little. Only travellers who went to the stations last night were faced with these delays. Shouldn't SNCB have been better informed in advance about the risk of delays? Secondly, what will be adapted to the heat plan in the coming days to avoid yesterday's situation? We've got hot days ahead of us. How do you think SNCB can change its plan?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-02-54-plenair-ip060x.u80	Ladies and gentlemen, like every year, the railway companies are preparing for the summer months and for periods of extreme heat. SNCB informs that water nebulisers and water fountains are available at the stations, which can be made available to passengers in the event of extreme heat. In addition, SNCB staff are on standby at the stations, and have built a supply of bottled water that can be distributed to the traveller if necessary, for example in the event of incidents. The air conditioning and other potentially sensitive installations in the trains are also thoroughly checked. SNCB has a specific summer offer. Additional trains can be installed in good weather. In addition, train traffic is monitored in real time, and additional trains can be inserted in real time if there is evidence that there is a large influx of passengers. Yesterday there were 11 additional trains on top of the summer offer. As far as Infrabel is concerned, before the summer, very many checks are carried out to check the resistance of the infrastructure to the great heats. Indeed, different negative impacts are likely to affect the railway network in the event of exceptional temperatures. To be clearer, the rail expands because of the heat, snakes and tends to get out of the place that must be its own. In Belgium, rail can withstand abnormal temperatures, but in exceptional circumstances, the physical properties of the metal do not guarantee that no incident can occur. In addition, electronic enclosures are, in principle, white. However, they may sometimes be tagged. In doing so, heat absorption increases (up to 70%, according to Infrabel) and these enclosures no longer work properly. In addition, yesterday there was a roadside fire near Vilvoorde. As a result, at the request of the fire department, train traffic on the Brussels-Mechelen line was shut down for an hour, resulting in delays. Finally, catenaries are also sensitive to high temperatures. The heat relaxes the catenaries who risk touching the roof of the train and creating an electric arc. In the worst case scenario, the pantograph can rip the catenary off. To avoid such problems, train speeds can sometimes be reduced voluntarily. It is also possible that some track equipment (admissions) may be affected by high heat. With regard to restorative measures, Infrabel yesterday mobilized all of its teams to deal with the potential incidents related to the announced exceptional temperatures. This represents almost 500 employees who surveyed the tracks in the heat to control the facilities and respond as quickly as possible if an incident were to occur. I would like to recall that these temperatures are truly exceptional and that our neighbours have experienced the same problems. The Netherlands has experienced the same problems in its railways. Other means of transport have also been affected. The situation on the roads has also been problematic with these high heats, which have caused, among other things, road uprisings. I wouldn't want to minimize this, but I think these are really unusual circumstances. Given the reduced deadlines and the fact that these exceptional temperatures persist, it is not possible at this moment to quantify the delays and cancellations experienced yesterday. The services of the Punctuality Manager in particular were fully mobilized to deal with this situation. This data will be available early next week, if necessary. All these circumstances made yesterday a difficult day for our rail system. There were too many problems. I would therefore like to stress that I fully understand the complaints made by travellers. I therefore follow the situation closely in the next few days.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-02-54-plenair-ip060x.u81	Minister, I can hear your answers. It is true that these are exceptional circumstances, but they will last. So it's not just about talking about yesterday's situation. It may now be necessary to put a firm order in this society. I also told you, you saw him in the press, these permanent scumbags. Objectively, this does not give the impression of a company oriented towards the well-being of its commuters. This involves not only communication, but also the fact that you put order. You're announcing a modernization plan. I hope we will have it on the table in Parliament in mid-July as you have committed yourself to it. But frankly, following what happened in the subsidiaries, following the numerous episodes in the press, the low blows between the officials, it is time that you put order in this company and that it devotes itself to its commuters, to their well-being, to their safety and to its workers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-02-54-plenair-ip060x.u82	Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this exceptional story also contains positive messages: SNCB is trying to get all trains to run on time. She also tries to communicate and through Twitter this happens in a very smooth way. Still, it could be better. I am glad to see that you understand what happened yesterday, but the same may happen in the next few days. It's better on three levels. Firstly, as in other countries, passengers can be informed in advance that there is a risk that trains will not be on time. The English call that managing expectations, which means that we know in advance that there can be delays and that we need to look at them carefully. Secondly, I understand that SNCB will renovate the MS7577 train. That train costs 3.3 million euros each, but it doesn't have air conditioning. A new Desiro train would cost 4 million euros. It would then be appropriate to consider whether new trains should be purchased for the future rather than renovate them. Thirdly, the heat plan can be adapted to stop in places where there is no station. You provide water at stations, but if you stop in places where there is nothing, it would be better to stop the train somewhere where you can also get off effectively. I would like to make these three important suggestions in order to improve the problem and your efforts.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-02-54-plenair-ip060x.u83	At the request of the chairman of the Committee on Industry, Science Policy, Education, the national scientific and cultural institutions, the Middle Classes and Agriculture, I propose the legislative proposal (Mrs Vanessa Matz) amending the Code of Economic Law, No. 280/1, and the amendments refer to the Committee on Health, the Environment and Social Renewal for advice. At the request of the Chairman of the Committee on the Economy, Scientific Policy, Education, National Scientific and Cultural Institutions, Middle Classes and Agriculture, I propose that you refer the bill (Ms Vanessa Matz) amending the Code of Economic Law, No 280/1, and the amendments to the Committee on Public Health, the Environment and the Renewal of the Society for opinion. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-02-54-plenair-ip060x.u84	The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. If there is no objection, I shall consider it adopted; in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be sent to the committees responsible. If there are no comments on this subject, I will take it into account as a matter of fact and refer the proposals back to the relevant committees in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. In line with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 1 July 2015, I also propose that you consider: - the draft law of Mr Jean-Marc Nollet and Mr Kristof Calvo and Mrs Muriel Gerkens and Mrs Anne Dedry amending the Royal Decree of 20 July 2001 laying down general rules for the protection of the general public, workers and the environment against the dangers of ionizing radiation (No. 1213/1); - Mr Veli Yüksel's draft law introducing the requirement of parental consent for minors travelling alone outside the Schengen area (No. 1234/1;
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-02-54-plenair-ip060x.u85	- the draft law of Mr Frédéric Daerden, Mr Éric Massin and Mr Jean-Marc Delizée and Mrs Laurette Onkelinx on increasing the purchasing power of workers with a view to social relance (No. 1216/1);
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-02-54-plenair-ip060x.u86	- the motion for a resolution by Mrs Inez De Coninck and others; for the evaluation by the Court of Auditors of the implementation of management contracts with Infrabel and SNCB (No. 1225/1);
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-02-54-plenair-ip060x.u87	- the proposal for a resolution by Mrs Sarah Claerhout on conflict minerals (Doc. 1226/1); - the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Stéphane Crusnière and others; on the recognition of the Armenian genocide following the commemoration of its 100th anniversary (No. 1229/1);
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-02-54-plenair-ip060x.u88	- the draft law of Mr Raf Terwingen inserting an Article 1412quinquies into the Court's Code, confiscating the property of a third State or an international organization (No. 1241/1).
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-02-54-plenair-ip060x.u89	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 1 July 2015, I also propose that you take into account: - the bill of Messrs. Jean-Marc Nollet and Kristof Calvo and Mrs Muriel Gerkens and Anne Dedry amending the Royal Decree of 20 July 2001 on the general regulation for the protection of the population, workers and the environment from the danger of ionizing radiation (No 1213/1); - Mr Veli Yüksel's proposal for a law requiring parental authorisation for minors travelling alone outside the Schengen area (No 1234/1);
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-02-54-plenair-ip060x.u90	- the bill of Messrs. Frédéric Daerden, Éric Massin and Jean-Marc Delizée and Ms Laurette Onkelinx aiming to increase the purchasing power of workers with a view to a social revival (No 1216/1);
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-02-54-plenair-ip060x.u91	- the motion for a resolution by Mrs Inez De Coninck et al. on the Court of Auditors' evaluation of the implementation of management contracts concluded with Infrabel and SNCB (No 1225/1);
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-02-54-plenair-ip060x.u92	- Mrs Sarah Claerhout's motion for a resolution on conflict minerals (No 1226/1); - the motion for a resolution by Mr Stéphane Crusnière et al. on the recognition of the Armenian genocide on the occasion of the commemoration of its centenary (No 1229/1);
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-02-54-plenair-ip060x.u93	- Mr Raf Terwingen's proposal for a law inserting into the Judicial Code an article 1412quinquies governing the seizure of property belonging to a third State or an international organization (No. 1241/1).
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-02-54-plenair-ip060x.u94	Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. I also suggest that you consider: - the draft law of Mr Raf Terwingen amending Article 51 of the Law of 17 May 2006 establishing criminal courts and amending Article 109 of the Law of 17 May 2006 on the external legal status of persons sentenced to a custodial sentence and the rights conferred on the victim in the context of the terms of criminal enforcement, as regards its entry into force (No. 1235/1); - Mr Raf Terwingen's draft law amending the Code of Justice as regards the modalities of a contract of general interest with an international, supranational or foreign institution (No. 1236/1); - the draft law of Mr Raf Terwingen amending the Act of 13 January 1977 approving the Agreement on the establishment of a system of registration of wills, drawn up at Basel on 16 May 1972, with a view to the introduction of the obligation to publish certain data from the Central Marriage Agreement Register in the Belgian Official Journal (No. 1237/1); - the draft law of Mr Raf Terwingen amending the law of 30 July 2013 on the introduction of a family and youth court (No. 1238/1); - the draft law of Mr Raf Terwingen amending the Law of 1 December 2013 on reform of the judicial districts and amending the Judicial Code with a view to increasing the mobility of members of the judicial order (No. 1239/1);
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-02-54-plenair-ip060x.u95	- the draft law of Mr Brecht Vermeulen amending the law of 8 December 1992 on the protection of privacy with regard to the processing of personal data, as regards the control body for police information (No. 1240/1).
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-02-54-plenair-ip060x.u96	I also propose that you take into account: - Mr. Raf Terwingen's proposal for a law amending section 51 of the Act of 17 May 2006 establishing courts for the enforcement of sentences and amending section 109 of the Act of 17 May 2006 on the external legal status of persons sentenced to deprivation of liberty and the rights of the victim under the terms of the sentence, with regard to entry into force (No. 1235/1); - Mr Raf Terwingen's proposal for a law amending the Judicial Code with regard to the modalities of a mission of general interest to an international, supranational or foreign institution (No. 1236/1); - Mr Raf Terwingen's bill amending the Act of 13 January 1977 approving the Convention on the Establishment of a System of Registration of Wills, done at Basel on 16 May 1972, and introducing a central register of marriage contracts in the Belgian Moniteur (No. 1237/1); - Mr. Raf Terwingen's bill amending the Act of 30 July 2013 establishing a Family and Youth Court (No. 1238/1); - Mr. Raf Terwingen's bill amending the Law of 1 December 2013 on the reform of judicial districts and amending the Judicial Code with a view to enhancing the mobility of members of the Judicial Order (No. 1239/1);
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-02-54-plenair-ip060x.u97	- Mr Brecht Vermeulen's proposal for a law amending the Law of 8 December 1992 on the protection of privacy with regard to the processing of personal data with regard to the Police Information Review Body (No 1240/1).
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-02-54-plenair-ip060x.u98	Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-02-54-plenair-ip060x.u99	Mr President, I would like to ask the urgency of the legislative proposal No. 1240 amending the Law of 8 December 1992 on the operation of the Supervisory Body on police information. A number of hearings were held in January on the composition of the control body. At that time, we found that a number of legislative changes were needed. On 24 June it was proposed in a note which was discussed at the Conference of Presidents. The text of the note was used as a basis for the relevant legislative proposal. We would like to deal with the legislative proposal as soon as possible so that the control body can be set up as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-02-54-plenair-ip060x.u100	Mr President, I do not doubt that the body must be installed as a matter of urgency. I would like to point out to my fellow Members that the opinion of the privacy committee was not fully followed. I suggest you listen to the privacy committee first. After all, it is not a politically loaded document. In this way, we can take note of the problems raised by the privacy committee and see how we can incorporate the opinion into the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-02-54-plenair-ip060x.u101	Mr President, we have already prepared this discussion. I asked the chairman of the committee for an informal discussion with a view to possibly amending the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-02-54-plenair-ip060x.u102	I suggest you join us and stand up and say something about the question. I suggest that we take a stand on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-02-54-plenair-ip060x.u103	Mr President, I would like to ask the House for urgent procedure in respect of Mr Terwingen's legislative proposals Nos 1235, 1236, 1237, 1238, 1239 and 1241. As far as motivation is concerned, the bill No. 1235 is to postpone the entry into force of the law in criminal courts for a period of four months. That 2006 law is what the powers of the single criminal enforcement courts have never entered into force to date. The immediate entry into force on 1 September would result in a huge increase in the case load in prisons and courthouses as well as in the parquet and sitting magistrate, all the more so because the internment files will also be assigned to that court from 2016. What the bill No. 1236 is a legislative proposal on international mandates for magistrates. We want to offer the Belgian magistrates who carry out a mission in international, supranational or foreign institutions a perspective before the expiry of the current maximum period. Bill No. 1237 deals with the Central Marriage Agreement Register. The urgent procedure is necessary in order to ensure that the optimisation of the register requested in the legislative proposal can also land at the same time as the entry into force of the law of 14 January 2013 concerning access to that register by third parties. With the Bill No. 1238 in connection with the family court's license, we want to apply an additional one-year period to obtain that license. If we don't, then some magistrates risk not being able to sit in the family court and juvenile court anymore, which they are doing today. What Bill No. 1239 concerns, also for the e-griffie, we postpone the entry into force, because the courts are not yet able to redistribute all physically filed documents. Finally, Bill No. 1241 with regard to the attachment of goods of a third State or an international organisation. There is not at present any rule of principle for certain goods of third countries to be included in our legislation on this matter, even for goods of diplomatic missions from third countries. This poses a risk for diplomatic incidents, which we want to avoid with immediate effect.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-02-54-plenair-ip060x.u104	Mr President, the situation is quite exceptional: see how many texts have come to us today! By the way, I would like to thank the services because I don't know how they did to make the photocopiers run so quickly, with such a volume! Beyond that, Mr Verherstraeten, given the number of texts that are tabled today and for which you are asking for urgency, do you think that this is a correct way of working? We are at the end of the session, however, I agree that an end date is not yet set. However, with the volume of texts for which you are asking for urgency, can we still consider being in a normal working environment? There is clearly a problem of functioning in the organization of government.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-02-54-plenair-ip060x.u105	Mr President, I do believe that calling for urgency on all these texts that have just been tabled demonstrates the failure of our judicial system. We are faced with texts for which we have long known the dates of entry into force and which, for some, have already been postponed several times. This shows that we are in a situation where we no longer have the means, neither human nor material, to make our justice work. There is no reason to operate and work in an emergency. The committee could very well, next week, seize these documents, do quite normal work and succeed, since it will probably be necessary to do so in order to avoid a form of organization of chaos in our judicial institution. Those texts could have been voted on. But asking for urgency today in this way makes no sense to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-02-54-plenair-ip060x.u106	Mr President, I would like to confirm what my colleagues have just outlined and supplemented by saying that we had reached a majority/opposition agreement with the Minister of Justice to work hard in September and October to try to complete the so-called "pot-pourri" law within a reasonable time. In the context of this agreement, we have even proposed to remove from the text the part that allows for postponing the limitation periods for the so-called "Brabant Killers" file. The agreement has barely been signed, and while the majority does not want to withdraw this chapter on the prescriptions, the ink barely dry, we are told that, despite everything, a whole series of provisions must be voted on as a matter of urgency. The opposition, once again, is constructive and wants to work with the majority. For a few items, it will table a joint bill to post deadlines. And what do I see? That not only has there been no work with the opposition on these bills - they are unilaterally signed by the majority - but that is added! Obviously, we will vote against the urgency, but we will have to work again in the Justice Committee on the agreement we had reached together. You went against this agreement. Therefore, we will have to discuss again the deadlines on which we agreed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-02-54-plenair-ip060x.u107	Mr President, I cannot add much to what my fellow Members have already said. I fully agree with what has been said by colleagues from the opposition. I would like to add one more thing. At the time when the statute of limitations for the Gang of Nivelles was threatening, and we proposed to remove it, the Minister was very firm in saying that this was not possible and should remain in it. The Minister argued that he wanted to treat potpourri law 1 as a whole. This should be seen as a whole in the discussion and the vote. It is true that an agreement has been reached on a proposal from the opposition. That agreement was ignored by the majority just three hours later. Now there are a number of legislative proposals. We will not approve this question of urgency. I also wonder whether the agreement is still valid.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-02-54-plenair-ip060x.u108	Mr President, we are indeed asking for the urgency of various legislative proposals. There is, of course, a reason, in particular, that we agreed that we would not finalise the law on the reform of civil procedure before the end of this parliamentary year, in agreement with the colleagues from the opposition. The six legislative proposals for which urgency is now being requested were actually drafted into three proposals. It is at the request of the opposition that we have broken it down into six proposals. Moreover, in order to postpone legislation in the criminal court, we also discussed the opposition's suggestion that its duration should be limited to four months. I think we've taken into account your sighs. In any case, I say this in a personal capacity, I have no objection to you signing the legislative proposals. They're at the Registry. I refer to my motivation, which points out that these matters are certainly urgent.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-02-54-plenair-ip060x.u109	Colleagues, can we vote on the six bills in a single vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-02-54-plenair-ip060x.u110	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask the urgency of the motion for a resolution for a review by the Court of Auditors of the implementation of management contracts with Infrabel and SNCB (No. 1225/1). Ladies and gentlemen, I understand that it seems a little strange after all these questions of urgency here, but on this we reached a consensus in the Infrastructure Committee. I would therefore also like to thank my fellow Members from both the majority and the opposition for their constructive cooperation on this issue. The reasons for urgency are as follows. The resolution calls for an evaluation of the current management contracts at the Court of Auditors, while negotiations on the new management contracts have already begun. A vote after the summer would mean that the evaluation would be too late to be taken on board in the discussion of the new management contracts.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-02-54-plenair-ip060x.u111	Mr President, in the last Committee on Infrastructure, we discussed the question of an audit by the Court of Auditors of the management contracts of SNCB and Infrabel. The Ecolo-Groen Group has, some time ago, tabled a text on the same subject, which was debated in committee. Together with its president, Mrs Lalieux, whose work I welcome here under difficult conditions, we have found that a consensus has been reached for the issue to be dealt with next Tuesday. We are moving towards an approval of the principle of auditing which is very much necessary for the Court of Auditors to exercise. I do not believe that the urgency is formally justified. If the House agrees that we work well on Tuesday afternoon, we can dispense with the formal urgency. This depends on the goodwill of all groups. We look forward to the intervention of the chairman of the committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-02-54-plenair-ip060x.u112	I was not present in committee on Wednesday. But it is true that there was a resolution by the fellow Members of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. Mrs De Coninck is now focusing on a good cooperation between majority and opposition in the Infrastructure Committee. I suggest that you talk to Mr Cheron and also sign his proposal. I think that was a very good proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-02-54-plenair-ip060x.u113	Mr President, the elegance of the majority would have been to work on Mr Cheron's resolution because the work was done correctly and you could have amended it. But you're not used to working that way anymore. A text exists but you prefer to make exactly the same request. I find that this way of working is not at all elegant. On the other hand, Mr Cheron, I felt that, since the management contract would come in the course of 2016, it was indeed necessary to ask for this work through the Court of Auditors. We knew that if Mr. Cheron didn't want to be stubborn, but just work on his resolution, you would have rejected him and dropped another one right after. That's too bad. We will, however, be working on this on Tuesday and I hope that you will accept amendments from this opposition to your resolution, so that we can have a little more constructive work than we are used to doing with the current majority.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-02-54-plenair-ip060x.u114	I propose that we address Mrs Inez De Coninck's question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-02-54-plenair-ip060x.u115	Mr President, I would like to ask for the urgency of our motion for a resolution on the recognition by Belgium of the Armenian genocide, which is co-signed by Mr Benoît Lutgen, Mrs Catherine Fonck and myself and which bears No 1201. I ask for urgency because I see the interest of many political groups in the same subject and because I think it is necessary to make a clear decision without delay since we are commemorating the 100th anniversary of this genocide.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-02-54-plenair-ip060x.u116	On the same subject, and for the same reasons as those just mentioned, I call for the urgency of the motion for a resolution No 1229 on the recognition of the Armenian genocide on the occasion of the commemoration of its centenary.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-02-54-plenair-ip060x.u117	I would just like to say, even if on this issue the essential thing is done – the Prime Minister having recognized on behalf of Belgium the Armenian genocide – that for these proposals for which urgency is requested by the opposition, we are not going to do the same as the opposition. At the level of the majority, we will accept the opposition's urgent request, because we are constructive, we are not obstructing and, Mrs Lalieux, because we know how to be elegant.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-02-54-plenair-ip060x.u118	Mr President, I would also like to ask for the benefit of urgent consideration of the bill tabled by Mr Dallemagne, Mrs Caprasse and myself, to amend the Act of 23 March 1995 to suppress the denial, minimization, justification or approval of the genocide committed by the German nationalist regime during the Second World War (No 1182). It is, of course, to be connected with the motions for resolutions referred to. I would ask that if urgency is granted for the first two motions for resolutions, it is also granted for the consideration of this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-02-54-plenair-ip060x.u119	Mr President, on behalf of my group I would also like to ask the urgency of the resolution on Armenia (No. 1207), which we have tabled together with my fellow Members from the majority.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-02-54-plenair-ip060x.u120	We will also show the full scope of our elegance and accept the urgency for this last request.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-02-54-plenair-ip060x.u121	Mr President, we accept, elegantly as we are in the opposition, the urgency, but we Mr De Roover insist that his resolution has been accepted earlier and that we cannot make it urgent anymore, but we have no problem with it. As chairman of the Committee on External Relations, I will have all the resolutions discussed on Tuesday. We can then begin the discussion and hopefully conclude it quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-02-54-plenair-ip060x.u122	Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that we vote on the request for urgency for the three motions for resolutions on the Armenian genocide, Nos 1229/1, 1201/1 and 1207/1, at once.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-02-54-plenair-ip060x.u123	Ladies and gentlemen, we must then give our opinion on Mr Maingain's request for urgency on the legislative proposal to amend the law of 23 March 1995 to punish the denial, minimize, justify or approve of the genocide committed during the Second World War by the German National Socialist regime (No. 1182/1). We shall vote on the request for urgency when we sit and stand. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen, since the result of the vote is not clear, we shall repeat the vote. An electronic vote was taken. Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes [[55]] Yes No. 83 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 138 Total The request for urgency is therefore rejected. Consequently, the request for urgency is rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-02-54-plenair-ip060x.u124	The Government requested urgent procedure under Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when submitting the following draft laws: The government requested urgency pursuant to rule 51 of the Rules when introducing the following bills: 1. Draft Law amending the Consular Code, No. 1200/1. 1. Draft law amending the Consular Code, No. 1200/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-02-54-plenair-ip060x.u125	Mr President, this is a provision in connection with all the measures to combat terrorism aimed at the removal of passports. This provision is part of the package of twelve measures. It is also linked to the legislation amending the Act of 8 August 1983 which applies, in the case of these measures, in particular to identity cards. Given the extremely high priority of this text, we hope that the House will be able to give it the benefit of urgency and help us fight terrorism.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-02-54-plenair-ip060x.u126	Mr President, I think we should be careful not to be too flexible in our Rules of Procedure. I hear the Minister asking for the urgency of a draft bill on the Consular Code. I would like to inform the Minister that this has already been approved in committee. How can we ask for urgency for something that has already been approved in committee? I would also like to say that opposition and majority have unanimously agreed that this draft law would be dealt with in plenary only when there is clarity about Minister Jambon's draft law on the withdrawal of identity cards, which is the basis for this draft law which has already been adopted in the Foreign Affairs Committee. I insist that this agreement be adhered to and that we await the examination of Minister Jambon's draft law in the Committee on the Interior. If I'm well informed, an opinion has been requested from the Council of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-02-54-plenair-ip060x.u127	Mr. Chairman, I propose to save time and now ask the government when it does not ask for urgency. That way, we'll go faster for the rest of the votes!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-02-54-plenair-ip060x.u128	Unless I am mistaken, we agreed in the Conference of Presidents on matters relating to the fight against radicalism and terrorism, given their extremely sensitive aspect, to accept the urgency called for by the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-02-54-plenair-ip060x.u129	I propose that the leader of the MR should read the CV of the sitting of 22 or 23 June. There is the draft law on the Consular Code in the non-priority proposals.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-02-54-plenair-ip060x.u130	I was not there, but apparently there was an agreement between majority and opposition in the Foreign Affairs Committee. We're not going to revoke these chords, are we?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-02-54-plenair-ip060x.u131	I take note of the request for urgency. You know, of course, that the question of urgency may also have to do with it. However, I do not have to speak on behalf of the majority of the House with the deadlines. In addition, I can only say that urgency is being asked and can only ask the Court to give its opinion on this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-02-54-plenair-ip060x.u132	Mr President, as President of the Chamber and President of the Conference of Presidents, I would like to ask you to confirm what Mr Van der Maelen has just said, namely that the draft is on the list of non-urgent draft laws. Can you confirm that, Mr President?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-02-54-plenair-ip060x.u133	I confirm that, Mrs Temmerman, but I would add that there is also truth in the argument put forward by Mr Ducarme. We will only be honest and say that we did not realise that at the time of the Conference of Presidents, but the Consular Code is effectively linked to the measures against radicalism and terrorism. So you are right that it is on a different list, but in the spirit of the agreement we have reached between the majority and the opposition, it is part of the first list.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-02-54-plenair-ip060x.u134	Mr President, when you speak of the spirit of the agreement, what are you doing with the spirit of the agreement reached in the Committee on External Relations? One of two things. Agreements have been reached between majority and opposition in the External Relations Committee for the consideration of that bill. As far as I am concerned, there is no problem. I believe that we must allow things to happen quickly, but does the majority demand once again that such an agreement does not apply?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-02-54-plenair-ip060x.u135	Mrs Temmerman, I can only comment on the meetings at which I was present and of which I have read the reports, namely the Conference of Presidents. I give the floor to Mr Luykx on the Committee on External Relations.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-02-54-plenair-ip060x.u136	We have indeed considered this point in the Committee on External Relations, ladies and gentlemen. There is also a clear demand, both from the government and from the majority, for an early examination of this draft, of this amendment to the Consular Code, precisely in order to implement the measures already decided by the government in January. Everyone agreed to that. The urgency therefore seems to me to be without prejudice, Mr van der Maelen, to the fact that it must go hand in hand with the decision taken in the Committee on External Relations, on which I am not a member and on which I am not making a ruling either. At that meeting, however, Minister Reynders' replies and the committee's replies made it very clear that it had to move forward quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-02-54-plenair-ip060x.u137	You will understand that we have often tried to make agreements in the last few days and weeks. That hasn't always been easy. We note that these agreements are often changed afterwards. We have made a number of agreements. Well, then, take it into account. I am not hiding the fact that we will otherwise exhaust our resources, a second reading among others, to the maximum. We don't keep making agreements to come back to that afterwards. I can't. You probably think you can do whatever you want because there are only about 50 people in the opposition. So that's not how it's gonna go down. So bear in mind that we will ask for second readings until you respect agreements concluded.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-02-54-plenair-ip060x.u138	I would suggest that we speak on this question. I propose that we take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-02-54-plenair-ip060x.u139	2. Draft law amending the Law of 15 December 1980 on entry into the territory, residence, establishment and expulsion of foreign nationals, No. 1215/1. 2. Draft law amending the Act of 15 December 1980 on the entry, residence, establishment and removal of aliens, No. 1215/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-02-54-plenair-ip060x.u140	The Conference of Presidents agreed not to reopen the debate on motivation. It was agreed to resume the procedure at the time of the vote. I explicitly asked the question. There was unanimity in this regard. I would suggest that we speak on this question. I propose that we take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-02-54-plenair-ip060x.u141	3. Draft law amending civil procedural law and laying down various provisions on justice, No. 1219/1. 3. Draft law amending the law of civil procedure and introducing various provisions in the field of justice, No. 1219/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-02-54-plenair-ip060x.u142	Mr President, when the government adopted the draft law in question at second reading, it decided to ask for urgency. I'm very happy about that. I don't think I'm going against the agreement with that. I know you're not gonna agree with that. I'd already understood that much. It is very important for the Justice budget that both operational and personnel costs... (Luid protest)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-02-54-plenair-ip060x.u143	We must first listen to the minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-02-54-plenair-ip060x.u144	It goes without saying that we will stick to the agreement in terms of timing. We are asking for urgency, because there is a significant budgetary impact on both the operational costs of postage stamps and staff costs. If the Justice Department can't save fast, I can't make the savings. It goes without saying that we will abide by the agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-02-54-plenair-ip060x.u145	Mr President, I do not understand! An informal meeting of all the groups in this Parliament was held in the Committee on Justice. It resulted in an agreement on the so-called pot-pourri text. On this occasion, we undertook to ensure that the texts were voted so that they could be published in the Belgian Monitor before 24 October, our aim being that the increase in the limitation period be voted on, bearing in mind precisely the question of the killing of Brabant. We have even been so far as to suggest – as Mrs Onkelinx said earlier – that the Minister of Justice remove the prescription element for the Brabant's killing file from her text, so that it can be voted on before the end of this session. The minister responded negatively to our proposal because, in his view, it was the only means in his possession to have all the assurances that the agreement would actually be respected. We have again given our agreement on this point. And today, we want another guarantee, we're being asked for urgency. Where is the good faith that must govern the agreements reached in this Parliament? I come to the conclusion that the majority considers that the opposition is not able to commit itself and to fulfil a commitment it has nevertheless undertaken. I think I can say that I am speaking here on behalf of all the groups that participated in this meeting. If we can no longer be in good faith, there must no longer be proposals for agreement between the majority and the opposition!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-02-54-plenair-ip060x.u146	Mr. President, this is really a mess! I spoke with humour at the beginning of the discussion, I speak in a somewhat more solemn way now. Minister, if you will, I would ask you to take into consideration what has been said in this House. Don't make your colleague Jamar's mistake last week. Hear what is said here by the opposition groups who, I think, are being shown repeatedly, with you this week, their ability to organize the work, their ability to respect what has been said. Withdraw your request on this matter, sitting in session. Otherwise, Mr. President, we're going to a lot of problems. We make our commitments, we try to respect them, but it is the majority itself that goes further than we do. It's not going well anymore! Minister, I ask you to withdraw the request for an emergency.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-02-54-plenair-ip060x.u147	I'll be very brief. Either the government withdraws its request for urgency, or we will not comply with the commitment made on this "pot-pourri 1" bill, and we have the means to prevent a vote by the end of October. We will use it if you do not withdraw the emergency now. It's as simple as that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-02-54-plenair-ip060x.u148	We fully support what Mrs Onkelinx said. One has to know what one wants. People make appointments or they don't. The majority can do what they want and not make agreements. Moreover, I do not understand the benefit of urgency. If one claims to keep the agreement to approve the text by October, then this urgency is useless.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-02-54-plenair-ip060x.u149	I was present at the discussion between majority and opposition. I thought it was a good signal in itself. I also think we made arrangements there. We would start with the potpourri 1 law from September. There are certain aspects, such as the Van Nijvel Gang, which require the text to be published in the Belgian Official Journal by 24 October. September can be used for this. We will work together in all loyalty. In this sense, it is useful to ask for urgency, purely and simply to ensure, in consultation with the opposition, that we get there by 24 October. We have also agreed that there will be no discussions during the group days. You will see that there are already two weeks in September. We will use them constructively and get out together by October 24th.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-02-54-plenair-ip060x.u150	Mr. President, I understand that I am misunderstood. It's okay. On behalf of the government, I withdraw the emergency request.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-02-54-plenair-ip060x.u151	This brings us to the end of the requests for urgency.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-02-54-plenair-ip060x.u152	Vote on Amendment No 2 by Karin Jiroflée cs on Article 22. (1161/7) Vote on Amendment No 2 by Karin Jiroflée cs to Article 22. (1161/7) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 2) Yes [[46]] Yes No. 93 No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 142 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 22 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 22 was adopted. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 1 by Karin Jiroflée cs to insert an article 22/1 (n). (1161/7) Vote on Amendment No 1 by Karin Jiroflée cs to insert an Article 22/1 (n). (1161/7) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 3) Yes [[46]] Yes No. [[80]] No Abstentions 14 Abstensions Total 140 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-02-54-plenair-ip060x.u153	Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 3 by Karin Jiroflée cs on Article 23. (1161/7) Vote on Amendment No 3 by Karin Jiroflée cs to Article 23. (1161/7) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-02-54-plenair-ip060x.u154	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 23 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 23 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 7 by Barbara Beware Article 28. (1161/7) Vote on Amendment No 7 by Barbara Not to Article 28. (1161/7) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 2............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Yes No. [[140]] No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 142 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 28 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 28 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 8 by Barbara Beware of Article 81. (1161/7) Vote on Amendment No 8 by Barbara Not to Rule 81. (1161/7) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-02-54-plenair-ip060x.u155	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 81 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 81 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 9 by Barbara Pas to the exclusion of Article 92. (1161/7) Vote on Amendment No 9 by Barbara Not to delete Rule 92. (1161/7) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-02-54-plenair-ip060x.u156	The amendment was therefore rejected and Article 92 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 92 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 4 by Karin Jiroflée cs to insert an Article 98/1 (n). (1161/7) Vote on Amendment No 4 by Karin Jiroflée cs to insert an Article 98/1 (n). (1161/7) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 5) Yes 24 Yes No. 81 No Abstentions 35 Abstensions Total 140 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 5 by Karin Jiroflée cs to insert an Article 98/2 (n). (1161/7) Vote on Amendment No 5 by Karin Jiroflée cs to insert an Article 98/2 (n). (1161/7) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-02-54-plenair-ip060x.u157	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 6 by Karin Jirofléd cs to insert an Article 98/3 (n). (1161/7) Vote on Amendment No 6 by Karin Jirofléd cs to insert an Article 98/3 (n). (1161/7) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-02-54-plenair-ip060x.u158	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-02-54-plenair-ip060x.u159	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 6) Yes 82 Yes No. [[11]] No Abstentions 49 Abstensions Total 142 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1161/8) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1161/8) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-02-54-plenair-ip060x.u160	Vote on Amendment No 3 of Barbara Beware of the inscription and the decision-making part. (1108/5) Vote on Amendment No 3 by Barbara Pas on the title and operative part. (1108/5) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 7) Yes 2............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Yes No. [[140]] No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 142 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 4 of Barbara Pass on recommendation 10. (1108/5) Vote on Amendment No 4 by Barbara Not at point 10. (1108/5) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-02-54-plenair-ip060x.u161	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 5 by Barbara Pass on Recommendation 11. (1108/5) Vote on Amendment No 5 by Barbara Not on point 11. (1108/5) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? (Vote/vote 7) The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 6 by Nahima Lanjri cs. introducing a recommendation 13(n). (1108/5) Vote on Amendment No 6 by Nahima Lanjri cs. to insert a point 13(n). (1108/5) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 8) Yes 101 Yes No. [[40]] No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 142 Total The amendment was therefore adopted. Consequently, the amendment was adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-02-54-plenair-ip060x.u162	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-02-54-plenair-ip060x.u163	Mr President, our vote will be different from that we voted in the Committee on Social Affairs. Indeed, we had abstained because the general and generous principles of the majority text did not commit much to this essential issue of discrimination against people of foreign origin in the labour market. In committee, we had tabled amendments. One of them was to urge the majority to submit within six months legislation organising situation tests, the mystery calls. This amendment had been rejected by the majority. I had the pleasure of seeing yesterday, during the debates in plenary, a majority amendment aimed at a commitment from the government. Of course, it is much less precise than the one we tabled, but we decided to leave the benefit of the doubt to the majority. We therefore voted for this amendment, although it is very vague, a few seconds ago. We will approve this motion for a resolution in its entirety. You can count on our support and attention to ensure that this commitment is followed up by the majority and the Minister of Employment. We are indeed waiting within six months for this legislation on situation tests.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-02-54-plenair-ip060x.u164	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we had a long debate on this yesterday. The theme is very important for our society. We have also held several hearings on this subject. I would like to thank the majority of the Greens and Ecolo for their constructive cooperation in this resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-02-54-plenair-ip060x.u165	Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 9) Yes 93 Yes No. [[38]] No Abstentions 11 Abstensions Total 142 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the amended proposal of resolution. It will be notified to the government. (1108/6) Accordingly, the House adopted the amended motion for a resolution. This will be made known to the government. (1108/6) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-02-54-plenair-ip060x.u166	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 10) Yes 142 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 142 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft. (780/5) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a draft for Royal Assent. (780/5)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-02-54-plenair-ip060x.u167	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 11) Yes 142 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 142 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft. (793/6) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a draft for Royal Assent. (793/6)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-02-54-plenair-ip060x.u168	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 12) Yes 141 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 141 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft. (456/5) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a draft for Royal Assent. (456/5)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-02-54-plenair-ip060x.u169	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 13) Yes [[140]] Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 142 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the motion for a resolution. It will be notified to the government. (650/6) Accordingly, the House adopted the motion for a resolution. This will be made known to the government. (650/6) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-02-54-plenair-ip060x.u170	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 142 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 142 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the motion for a resolution. It will be notified to the government. (1011/10) Accordingly, the House adopted the motion for a resolution. This will be made known to the government. (1011/10)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-02-54-plenair-ip060x.u171	We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for the week of 6 July 2015. We must proceed to the approval of the agenda of the sittings of the week of July 6, 2015. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Wednesday, 8 July 2015, at 2.15 p.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Wednesday 8 July 2015 at 2.15 p.m.
