ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic179x.u1	Madam President, Minister, I thank you for being attentive to this inquiry, since, as you stated in your presentation of your objectives, the protection of the environment and the climate are two major issues of the 21st century. If we do not act quickly, the predicted global warming will have serious consequences for the planet, both for present and future generations. For example, in its latest report, the IPCC lists the disastrous effects that a rise in temperatures above two degrees relative to the pre-industrial period could cause. We are talking about rising sea levels, reducing biodiversity, increasing natural disasters that will be more intense and frequent, all of which will undermine the satisfaction of basic human needs and irremediably lead to increased migration, displacement of people seeking drinking water and fleeing famines and, necessarily, increased poverty and even impoverishment. It is therefore clear that the political status quo cannot be maintained further in this area. These particularly unwelcome prospects call for urgent measures to reduce our greenhouse gas emissions, but also to limit the impacts of climate change. In this respect, I recall that the EU's Climate and Energy Package 2013-2020 sets two legally binding targets for Belgium to achieve by 2020: on the one hand, to reduce our greenhouse gas emissions in non-ETS sectors by 15% and, on the other hand, to achieve a share of renewable energy by 13%, even though experts believe that if this inevitable warming is to be maintained below the threshold of two degrees, overall emissions would have to be reduced by 40% to 70% by 2050. Since we consider that global emissions have never increased so much as in the period 2000-2010 and that fossil fuels account for 80 per cent of the energy consumed on a global scale, it goes without saying that the magnitude of the task is enormous, if not enormous. In a world where social inequalities are at their height, action is increasingly needed as climate change increases the inequalities between North and South, between rich and poor. Indeed, the most fragile populations are the first victims of the consequences of warming, even though they are the least responsible. In addition, it is a fundamental social issue, because it is often the most vulnerable people who suffer from environmental degradation and it is often the least-favoured people who live in the most polluted neighbourhoods, in areas where road traffic is dense or in areas without green spaces. From this point of view, therefore, environmental inequalities also constitute social inequalities, which is in complete contradiction with the values we defend. The legitimate and urgent desire to preserve our environment and, thus, the climate requires a necessary transformation of our economies, as well as a reshaping of our production and consumption patterns. It is clear, however, that we will not be able to move from a fossil-fuel-dependent economy to a carbon-neutral one without jobs being affected, just as it is certain that we will be part of a neoliberal logic that would postulate that market laws would lead on their own to a truly sustainable and socially just low-carbon economy, seems illusory. That is why it is vital that policies to limit our impact on the environment are oriented so that they leave no one on the edge of the road. In this area, therefore, public authorities have an essential role to play, particularly in terms of regulation, because social justice, economic development and respect for the environment will not be achieved on their own. The role of public authorities as an example is therefore important, both from a pedagogical point of view and in terms of the good management and well-being of citizens, both to speed up change and to reduce their own burden. Madam Minister, in regions affected by several years of structural deindustrialisation, in regions where the lack of resources, in particular in terms of investment, deprives workers of sectors with high carbon emissions of credible occupational alternatives, in the face of many of this government's attacks on our social model, in the face of the growing precariousness of many of our citizens, the measures to be taken to limit our ecological footprint will only be accepted by the population if they are socially just. Therefore, what are the means envisaged by your ministry to ensure that environmental issues, including the implementation of the Climate-Energy package 2013-2020, will not be addressed at the expense of social issues? Moreover, as I have pointed out, the public authorities have a role to play in this area. The driving force behind a change in society in order to ensure the development of all by combining social progress, economic development, respect for the environment and the participation of everyone in the common life in a logic of sustainable development. What strategy has been developed in this regard? An initiative such as the establishment of a climate centre of excellence for Belgium, which would go in the right direction, was mentioned. If I do not abuse a preparatory study for the establishment of this centre was being finalized. Minister, what is the status of these projects?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic179x.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I will reply to your inquiry, which is based on three essential questions. First of all, the federal measures aimed at complementing and strengthening the action of the Regions for the implementation of the Energy-Climate package 2013-2020 will have to be established within the framework of the agreement on the allocation of efforts and opportunities between the Regions and the federal state, the famous burden sharing. A range of measures will be considered, including fiscal measures and product standards. It goes without saying that these will have to be accompanied by other measures, in order to avoid any redistributive impact which would be unfavourable to certain social categories. Work carried out by the Federal Office of the Plan at the request of the Climate Change Service of my Administration also indicates that the impact of the implementation of the 2013-2020 package, as well as the adoption of emission reduction targets by 2030, currently under discussion at European level, is likely to lead to net job creation. The stakes are at stake. On the one hand, part of the public revenue from auctioning emission allowances or introducing carbon taxation in the buildings or transport sectors must be mobilised in order to correct the socially unfair impacts. On the other hand, it is necessary to start developing solutions for the training of workers currently employed in a series of energy intensive sectors and to reorient themselves in the medium to long term. In all cases, these accompanying measures will have to be coherent between the different levels of power and mutually reinforcing. That is the question of federal measures to ensure a socially just transition in the context of the implementation of the Climate-Energy package. With regard to the socially just transition, I can assure you that Belgium has actively proposed and supported the inclusion by the European Union of the concept of just transition as a guiding principle in the negotiating text for the agreement of the next Paris Summit, to be held at the end of this year, a text compiled in Geneva in February 2015, as it has also done for respect for human rights and for the gender dimension. On the occasion of the celebration of the twentieth anniversary of the Coordination Committee for International Environmental Policy (CCPIE), the trade unions used an image saying "that there is no longer a Belgian climate negotiator who has not tattooed on his right transition arm, since April 27 last." This testifies to the commitment and intervention of all living forces in the context of the preparation of this agreement in Paris in 2015. I am doing and will continue to do everything possible in the Belgian, European and UN discussions to preserve these important guiding principles in the final version of the Paris Agreement. I am very aware that climate policy does not take place in a closed vacuum, but must be integrated into the sustainable development of societies that take into account all socio-economic dimensions. Although most measures aimed at a just transition will have to be taken at local and national level, an affirmation of this principle in the Paris Agreement is a very important political signal and legal basis. Finally, I would like to inform you that Belgium has a tradition of regular dialogue with stakeholders on the state of play of climate negotiations by systematically organizing consultations before the main stages of international negotiations and welcoming their representatives to the Belgian delegation during these negotiations. This dialogue also contributes to the support of civil society actors for a fair and ambitious climate policy, necessary to keep the temperature rise below 2° Celsius. What is my approach to integrating social issues into the next sustainable development plan? The next federal sustainable development plan will take fully into account the social dimension of sustainable development. Its preparation process makes it possible to give all the necessary attention to this dimension. The Act of 5 May 1997 laying down the federal sustainable development strategy provides that the preliminary draft plan is prepared by the Interdepartmental Commission for Sustainable Development, the ICESD, and the plan intends to implement Belgium's international commitments and the objectives of the long-term strategic vision for sustainable development adopted by the government in 2013 in the economic, social and environmental dimensions. The ICES is composed of representatives from all federal public services. This allows for the preparation and coordination of cross-cutting policies that take into account short- and long-term economic, social and environmental impacts, here and elsewhere. In the preparation of this preliminary draft plan, the ICESD carried out a pre-consultation of stakeholders prior to the drafting of a first draft text. Based on the objectives of the long-term vision, the aim was to identify priorities and lines of action for the duration of the next plan. Participants came from all walks of life, from which the more social sectors and the social impacts of other initiatives were also addressed. On the basis of these discussions, draft actions have been drafted by the federal administrations, ensuring that the social dimension of all proposals is taken into account. Furthermore, like all members of the ICSD, departments related to social matters were invited to propose actions and to consult with their colleagues to develop cooperation actions between departments. This preliminary draft plan will be submitted for public consultation and an opinion from the Federal Council for Sustainable Development (FCSD) will be requested. All social actors will be able to comment on the proposed measures and propose their own if they so wish. The government will then discuss these proposals for adoption by October 2015, as foreseen in the plan. It contains cooperation actions between federal departments. I am confident that the next plan will address the social dimension and contribute to a transition to sustainable development. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic179x.u3	Madam President, Madam Minister, thank you for your coordinated response, which is structured around different axes: from federal measures to the Paris summit to the federal development plan. Each time, you indicate how you will deal with this socially just transition. Thank you for these points of answer. You talked about the Paris summit, about the intervention of the unions, about the living forces, and how the political signal is given for this transition to be taken into account. I strongly stress the social support of the most vulnerable and the maintenance of economic activity in order to make this change acceptable. With regard to the federal development plan, you also refer to this social dimension, with coordination between the various sectors concerned. Here, too, I think it will be interesting to see implementation and, above all, how interested people will be able to decide and influence the process. Following your responses, I will allow myself to table a motion of recommendation. In broad terms, it calls for the guarantee of economic activity in order to make change acceptable, and for the realization of support for developing countries in the face of the consequences of global warming, so that these various objectives are also taken into account in the discussions leading up to the Paris summit.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic179x.u4	In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. A motion for recommendation was tabled by Mr. Daniel Senesael and reads as follows: The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Mr Daniel Senesael and the response of the Minister of Energy, Environment and Sustainable Development, asks the government - to place at the heart of the future "Paris Protocol" the objective of a fair and sustainable transition to a society that emits few greenhouse gases and consumes fewer raw materials, which requires the social support of the most vulnerable and the workers and to guarantee economic activity in order to make this change acceptable; - systematically defend within international and European organisations the transition to sustainable development that ensures strong social protection while integrating economic and environmental issues (within the EU, the United Nations, the WTO, the OECD, bilateral agreements, etc., in particular the achievement of sustainable development objectives); - to implement support to developing countries in order to help them cope with the consequences of global warming through, inter alia, the implementation of a tax on financial transactions, some of which will be allocated to this objective; - to further integrate sustainable development objectives into public policies and their evaluation; - to develop new indicators, in addition to GDP, in order to better measure the well-being of citizens and to use them jointly to direct public policies towards this objective; - to gradually generalise the use of social and environmental clauses in public procurement, taking into account the nature of the market and the sector concerned and establishing a dialogue with the sectors to help them respond to these public procurements." A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr Daniel Senesael and reads as follows: The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mr Daniel Senesael and the reply of the Minister for Energy, Environment and Sustainable Development, asks the government - to place the objective of a fair and sustainable transition towards a resource-efficient society with low greenhouse gas emissions at the heart of the future "Paris Protocol," which means that social support measures must be taken for the most vulnerable sections of the population and for workers and that economic activity must be ensured, in order to provide support for this change; - systematically defend the transition towards sustainable development with strong social protection and consideration of the economic and environmental challenges in international organisations and EU institutions (EU, United Nations, World Trade Organisation, OECD, bilateral agreements,..., in particular through the achievement of sustainable development objectives); - to implement support for developing countries to help them cope with the effects of climate change, in particular through the introduction of a financial transaction tax, part of which will be used for this purpose; - strengthen the consolidation of the objectives of sustainable development in public policy and its evaluation; - to develop new indicators, in addition to GDP, to better measure the well-being of the population and to use them alongside each other to align public policies with that objective; (ii) the use of social and environmental clauses in all public contracts, taking into account the nature of the contract and the sector concerned and entering into dialogue with the sectors in order to help them comply with the clauses in those public contracts.' A simple motion was tabled by Mrs Valerie Van Peel and by Messrs. Luc Gustin, Dirk Janssens et Damien Thiéry. A simple motion was tabled by Mrs Valerie Van Peel and Mr Luc Gustin, Mr Dirk Janssens and Mr Damien Thiéry. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic179x.u5	Minister, droughts, biodiversity loss, extreme weather events... The effects of global warming are felt in most parts of the world. In 2010, a national adaptation strategy was approved by the National Climate Commission. This strategy includes the establishment of a national adaptation plan. The latter must integrate the contributions of the Regions and the federal government. The federal government has expertise in various areas to carry out adaptation actions. As a result, a draft federal climate change adaptation plan was drafted in 2014. The draft plan was submitted for public consultation from 17 February to 18 April 2014. The Federal Council for Sustainable Development has also delivered an opinion on this project. Minister, the draft plan must now be approved at the political level. You recently announced your willingness to table a federal adaptation plan at the Council of Ministers table. What's your timing? What lessons do you learn from the public consultation and what changes have been made to the draft plan as a result of this consultation? What follow-up will you give to the opinion of the Federal Council for Sustainable Development?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic179x.u6	Madam Chair, Member of Parliament, I know your interest in the federal climate change adaptation plan. As regards the timing of the adoption of this plan, I intend to submit it to the Council of Ministers in the coming weeks. I cannot comment on a specific deadline for the adoption of the plan because it also depends on the outcome of the prior consultations with the other members of the government, but I look forward to the adoption and initiation of the implementation of the actions of the plan as soon as possible. I'm looking forward to it slowly! With respect to public consultation, the analysis of the seventy-two responses received showed that the ten areas identified in the plan were perceived as the most relevant for the federal level. Respondents felt that federal action is particularly relevant to the energy, transportation, agriculture and research sectors. The actions identified in the plan appear to meet the expectations of the consultation participants. Of the thirty-one actions in the plan, twenty-nine were identified by more than 50% of respondents as measures with high or moderate potential for adaptation to climate change. No measures were found to be low by more than 50% of respondents. Some of the comments made during the consultation consisted of general reflections or were outside the context of the draft plan, either because they related to jurisdictions that are not federal, or because they related to measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Other comments included the need to strengthen coordination at the federal level, raise public awareness of the future impacts of climate change, and take into account the issues of environmental migration caused by climate change. The comments from the public consultation, as well as the unanimous opinion of the Federal Council for Sustainable Development (FCSD), improved the content of the draft plan. Three adaptation measures have been added to this plan. The first concerns the energy sector and is to take account of the future impacts of climate change in energy policies, following a comment by the CFDD. The second is a cross-cutting measure aimed at ensuring coordination between the various departments involved at the federal level in the implementation of the plan - creation of a Federal Task Force Adaptation - on the basis of comments from the CFDD and the public consultation. The third measure, a suggestion emanating from the public consultation, aims to increase awareness of adaptation to climate change. The recommendations contained in the CFDD opinion also improved and strengthened the monitoring and evaluation component of the plan. Closer piloting has been planned, including an annual evaluation of the implementation of the plan. The CFDD also stressed the need to address the issue of loss and damage that we discussed in our exchange of views, and that of environmental migration. These two aspects were identified as avenues to be explored in the mid-term evaluation of the plan. The Federal Adaptation Plan must be seen as a process designed to evolve according to the knowledge and experience gained. The ad hoc comments proposed by the CFDD have been fully integrated. Finally, following the CFDD opinion, a summary table of the measures of the plan with indicative budget and identification of the departments responsible for implementation was annexed to the plan. The CFDD opinion was also forwarded to the members of the Adaptation Working Group of the National Climate Commission as part of the ongoing work to draft the National Adaptation Plan, with a view to good coordination between the Regions and the federal level.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic179x.u7	Thank you, Minister, for the very comprehensiveness of your response and for the various elements that allow us to be very optimistic about the lessons you have learned from this public consultation and the follow-up that has been given to the CFSD's opinion. I am very pleased with your response that you provide based on the elements you have been able to collect. Be determined to table this plan as soon as possible on the table of the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic179x.u8	Madam President, Minister, on Monday, May 18, an inter-federal meeting was held in order to reach an agreement on the distribution of climate objectives to be achieved by our country under the Energy-Climate package 2013-2020. As a reminder, these targets set by the European Union are, on the one hand, to reduce our greenhouse gas emissions in non-ETS sectors by 15% and, on the other hand, to achieve a share of 13% of renewable energy in the final consumption of gross energy. The distribution of revenues from the auctioning of CO2 emission allowances and international climate finance are also the subject of this inter-federal negotiation. Minister, what decisions were made at this May 18th meeting? Compared to reducing greenhouse gas emissions, it appears that the federal government must contribute to achieving this objective through policies and measures to support regional efforts in this area. What measures are you planning to put in place in this regard? What share of the renewable energy effort will ultimately be borne by the federal government? What is the status of negotiations on the allocation of revenues from the auctioning of CO2 emission allowances and international climate finance?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic179x.u9	Madam Secretary, I have about the same questions as Mr Senesael. So I'm not going to read out the introduction. You've answered a lot of questions, but I don't think you've answered everything yet. I shall therefore repeat my questions. Were the regional and federal targets for emission allowances and renewable energy discussed at the meeting on 18 May? What decision was taken? I have heard that a working group would be set up. Perhaps you could go into that a little more in depth. Is there an agreement on the distribution of income from the European Emissions Trading System? What does the possible agreement look like? I do not think there is any agreement on this. Is there an agreement on the contribution to international climate finance? What does the possible agreement look like? I thought you said that the two regions did not reach an agreement. Perhaps you could shed some light on that. Is there any possibility of a new consultation between the different entities in this country? Perhaps that will also fall within the scope of the working group you will set up. Could you give us a little more explanation on that?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic179x.u10	Mr Senesael, with your agreement, I shall first respond to Mr Janssen in Dutch. Then, the second part of my answer will contain some of the elements mentioned earlier spontaneously, but I hope they will allow you to have a complete answer. Mr Janssen, on 18 May, as you pointed out, there was a meeting of the National Climate Commission at which the points you mentioned were discussed. However, no consensus could yet be reached. The Presidency of the NKC, currently held by the Brussels-Capital Region, had forwarded a proposal to all parties prior to the meeting, largely based on the texts that already had a consensus in the earlier stages of the negotiations. The Presidency's objective was therefore to obtain, first of all, a first response from the various parties to this Brussels note. As indicated above, this exercise did not allow the debate to evolve. All parties remain so far in their previous positions. It was agreed that the Brussels Presidency should present a work plan with a timing. With regard to federal commitments to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, the note reiterates the earlier proposal for continuation of existing policies and measures to complement regional action to generate emission reductions of 15,250 kilotonnes of CO2 equivalents over the period 2013-2020. The main aim is to continue or even strengthen existing actions, particularly in the areas of transport and biofuels, product standards and federal public buildings. I am talking about energy efficiency. The Brussels note also proposes the implementation of new federal measures to generate additional reductions over the same period of 10,000 kilotonnes, which goes beyond the amount set out in the federal government's negotiating mandate of 7,000 kilotonnes. This additional reduction potential, be it the 7 000 kilotonnes of the federal government or the 10 000 kilotonnes of the Brussels Region, involves the development and implementation of new policies and measures, particularly in the area of taxation, product standards and support for energy efficiency investments. I would like to point out that in our work, which concluded yesterday, we have a text on increasing energy efficiency for the federal powers, since we are transposing part of the European directive on energy efficiency. As far as renewable energy is concerned, the Brussels proposal takes up a 2% share of the 13 % overall required at the federal level, via offshore wind energy, which is in line with the previous federal proposals and has been confirmed in the negotiating mandate approved by the Council of Ministers. To a few details, the distribution of these two objectives, namely the reduction of greenhouse gases and renewable energies, should no longer pose major problems. Unfortunately, the same is not true of the last two elements of the agreement, namely the allocation of the auctioning of ETS allowances and the Belgian contribution to international climate finance. The Brussels proposal is far from satisfactory in this respect for the federal level, since only 10% of ETS revenues would be allocated to the federal government, which would be expected at the same time to commit to providing 50% of Belgium's contribution to international climate finance, i.e. at least €50 million in 2015 at Belgian level, followed by an upward revision for the following years. So there's a disproportion between what we get and what we give. Given the efforts made by the federal authority to contribute to greenhouse gas and renewable energy reductions and to contribute to international financing, its share of revenues from the auctioning of ETS allowances is expected to be at least 20%. That is what I have asked and obtained from the Council of Ministers. The federal government has set in the federal mandate, with which I went to the National Climate Commission where I am now, the 20% minimum allocation of ETS quotas. Future discussions will therefore have to focus on these last two elements - the allocation of ETS quotas and international financing - with a view to reaching a balanced agreement covering all four elements of the negotiations. Anyway, this case just dragged too much. It would now be irresponsible not to seek political agreement before the Paris Conference, which will take place in December this year. I can assure you that I am doing everything in my power to reach a political agreement with my regional colleagues and I am calling for the Regions for the next time on this agreement, which we need.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic179x.u11	The position of the federal government is clear. With regard to the four objectives, the Minister has made clear the situation we are in, with two objectives being achieved and two objectives to be achieved. The question is how soon this agreement can be reached. I agree with the minister that it is essential that this agreement can be reached before the Paris Conference.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic179x.u12	I can only agree with the answer given by Mr Senesael. I really believe that the other two entities, which apparently want to make an effort but cannot reach an agreement, should be called upon to participate in a total agreement that you can then take with you to Paris by the end of the year.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic179x.u13	Minister, while the entities of our country are struggling to divide up the targets set under the Energy-Climate package 2013-2020, the European Union has set a new target for reducing greenhouse gases of at least 30% by 2030 in non-ETS sectors. This objective applies to the European Union as a whole. It should be distributed among each Member State. This sharing of effort will be the subject of a long and difficult negotiation. The European Commission has launched a public consultation on the subject. Responses are expected by 5 June at the latest. Madam Minister, I would like to know what are the criteria for allocating the effort between Member States that the federal government will defend with the European Commission.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic179x.u14	Mr President, I thank you for your question about the European Commission's consultation on the preparation of a legislative proposal on the effort to be made by Member States to reduce their greenhouse gas emissions in sectors not covered by the ETS system in order to meet the EU's commitment of at least 40% compared to 1990. At the European Council in October 2014, when I had just taken up my duties, Belgium highlighted the cost-effectiveness criterion as an important element in the allocation of the non-ETS objective. Together with a number of other Member States, namely Austria, Denmark, Finland, Ireland, Latvia, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Slovenia and Sweden, which are allocated more limited targets in an efficient cost scenario on the basis of European analyses, Belgium has succeeded in ensuring that this criterion is reflected in the Council conclusions. We found it an interesting and ambitious agreement. Indeed, the Council conclusions of 24 October 2014 state that the non-ETS objective will be allocated on the basis of GDP per capita, the continuation of the current distribution key and the reflection of the need for European solidarity. They also specify that there will be proportional adjustment for Member States whose GDP per capita is above the European average in order to reflect cost-effectiveness in a balanced and equitable manner. These conclusions still leave room for manoeuvre as regards the exact method to be used for this adaptation. Belgium continues to contribute proactively to the development of the final method, in particular by disseminating and defending a Belgian working paper on the subject. In the method of distribution which we propose and which is supported by the Federal Government and the Regions, as well as by the Member States mentioned above, the target for countries whose GDP per head is below the European average is determined on the basis of GDP per head, for Member States with GDP per head above the European average, such as Belgium, two criteria are applicable: GDP per head and the cost ratio / efficiency, each having the same weight. This approach would result in Belgium having a non-ETS emission reduction target of around 31 per cent. For comparison, a breakdown based solely on the cost ratio / efficiency would give Belgium a target of 24%, while this target would be 37% on the basis of the GDP per capita criterion alone. Belgium's response to this consultation is currently being prepared through a network of experts within the CCFIE. Coordination is also ensured with the above-mentioned Member States in order to communicate a common, coherent and well-argued message to the European Commission. Apart from the methodology for allocating the non-ETS objective, Belgium will also take advantage of this consultation to reiterate the other Belgian priorities in this dossier, namely: - first, to continue and strengthen policies and measures at European Union level. These policies such as ecodesign, energy labels, energy services for buildings, CO2 standards for vehicles help Member States reduce their emissions for non-ETS sectors and have the advantage of avoiding carbon lock-in and distortion of competition between Member States. - Secondly, to ensure a liquid and transparent market for intra-European flexibility mechanisms. The price of carbon must reflect long-term investment needs. However, it is important that, at the same time, adequate measures be taken with regard to carbon leakage, carbon leakage.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic179x.u15	Madam President, this is a clear, clear, precise and complete answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic179x.u16	I would like to remind Members that next Wednesday, 3 June, our committee will hold hearings on the illegal trade in timber and ways to combat it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic179x.u17	Madam Minister, two years ago, the European Wood Regulation was adopted at European level. This Regulation combats the illegal trade in timber. Since 3 March 2013, this regulation also has the force of law in Belgium. However, it provided for a two-year trial period to allow the Regulation to mature and become operational. In the context of that process, Belgium should provide the European Commission with a first mandatory evaluation of the European Wood Regulation by 30 April 2015 at the latest with regard to the application of that Regulation during the first two years of its entry into force. In this context, I have a number of questions for the Minister. The registration of the checks carried out or carried out in this area should be recorded in a register. A look at this register shows us that hardly seven checks have taken place in Belgium over the last two years. By way of comparison, 140 checks have already been carried out in the Netherlands since the entry into force of this Wood Regulation. How does the Minister explain this big difference? How does the Minister explain that only seven controls have been carried out in our country in the last two years? I already talked about the learning phase that was being observed. Given the low number of controls carried out in our country over the last two years, NGOs are obviously asking themselves about the application and enforcement of this legislation. What will the Minister do to strengthen application and enforcement, now that the two-year ageing period is over? What initiatives will the government take to take seriously the problem of illegal logging? As I have already said, Belgium has had to submit a report to the European Commission on 30 April 2015. Can the Minister explain the findings that Belgium has forwarded to the European Commission? Belgium is an important transit country of wood, especially through the port of Antwerp. Can the Minister also explain cooperation with other countries in this area? How can it be improved and intensified? How does the Minister intend to achieve this?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic179x.u18	Madam President, Madam Minister, I must first apologize, I will not be there next week, as I am in front of the Chamber abroad. In 2008, the European Union committed itself to at least halve deforestation by 2020 and to completely halt deforestation by 2030. Belgium has supported this commitment from the start. Now, seven years after that European commitment, deforestation continues at an alarming rate. This has serious consequences for local communities that depend on tropical rainforests for their livelihood, biodiversity and climate. An EU-funded study shows that between 1990 and 2008 a surface area of Portugal disappeared to produce goods destined for and consumed in the European Union. We think it's time to take action. The Netherlands and Germany have already expressed their support for a European action plan against deforestation. In March, the British Government announced that such an initiative would receive its support. We hear the same noise in France, and that is where the action plan is supported. Madam Minister, first of all, what is Belgium doing to follow up on the results of the EU-funded study? What concrete efforts has Belgium already made and what efforts are being made to achieve the European commitment effectively? Secondly, what results can be presented by Belgium? Thirdly, is there such a thing as a Belgian action plan or roadmap that has worked out how Belgium is trying to achieve these objectives? Fourthly, will Belgium actively participate in the evaluation of the FLEGT Action Plan, which is currently under way and in which European Member States are invited to contribute? Is our country planning to make concrete proposals on a future FLEGT action plan? In what way will Belgium in future, in cooperation with the European Commission and European Member States, work to effectively promote and ensure the implementation of the FLEGT Action Plan? Fifthly, is Belgium in favour of a European action plan that tackles the causes of deforestation and, among other things, improves the good governance of forests and land? Would Belgium actively support such an action plan? Sixth and finally, what exactly is the content of the Belgian policy on tropical forests, taking into account climate change, development and food security?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic179x.u19	Ms Van Hoof, on the one hand, explained this difference by the fact that the law allowing FPS public health officials to carry out inspections, detect infringements and impose sanctions, was published in the Belgian Official Journal at the end of June 2014. It concerns the law of 25 April 2014 amending the law of 21 December 1998 on product standards for the promotion of sustainable production and consumption patterns and for the protection of the environment, public health and workers and repealing the law of 14 July 1994 on the establishment of a committee for the award of the European eco-label. Therefore, the checks sensu stricto could not take place until the end of June 2014. On the other hand, as far as human resources are concerned, there is at present half a full-time equivalent dealing with this theme, both for monitoring policies and for carrying out controls. This represents a slight improvement compared to 2014, when a quarter full-time equivalent was used for these tasks. In addition to comparing the number of inspections between countries, it should also be noted that Belgium has distinguished itself from the measures taken when there were serious doubts as to the legality of certain wood cargoes imported into Belgium. We have prevented products from being placed on the market for as long as there was doubt about this and we have taken a lot of steps to clarify the legal status of the products. These investigations have had a significant impact within the European Union and in the producing countries. Item 2. We believe that progress can be made in this area by structuring interactions between the various stakeholders concerned, mainly associations representing operators and non-governmental organizations (NGOs). These actors have relevant information gathered in the wood-producing countries, which, if shared, would make it possible to improve the due diligence systems of all operators. In the coming weeks, I will personally organise a consultation in this direction. In addition, we plead for additional resources allocated to this case. Item 3. In this report, we provide, at the request of the European Commission, details in relation to the following points: the various administrations involved in the implementation in Belgium, the Belgian legislative framework for sanctioning infringements of the provisions of the Regulation, the way in which we draw up a risk-based control plan, the number of checks carried out so far under this Regulation and the number of complaints received, the various contacts established with third countries in the context of the implementation of the controls, the resources available for the implementation of this Regulation in Belgium and, lastly, the technical assistance provided to operators for the implementation of the provisions of this Regulation. This report shall be sent to the various stakeholders in this dossier and shall be available on request from the competent authority. Item 4. Cooperation with the other Member States of the European Union and the European Commission takes place within the framework of the FLEGT Committee set up by the Regulation and aims in particular to have a common interpretation of the legislation, and in particular of the principle of due diligence, by developing, for example, a guidance document, and to ensure that implementation is similar in all the Member States of the European Union. Operational cooperation between the European competent authorities also takes place within the framework of specific controls. This cooperation consists mainly of exchanging information about operators working in several European countries, coordinating actions on products transported across several European countries, and sending joint requests to third countries when questions about the legality of certain products arriving at different points in the European Union have arisen. It is in this context that the Belgian competent authority acts in the case of wood products arriving, via Belgium, to operators located in another country of the European Union. In the light of the results of our past investigations, cooperation with third countries can be improved. We are working in this direction with Foreign Affairs and through international organizations such as Interpol. I now turn to the four questions put by Mr Van der Maelen. I'll start with the first question. Belgium contributes to the objective by implementing its European obligations under the European Union, the Wood Regulation. Belgium also emphasises the certified wood by means of two instruments. The first instrument is a sectoral agreement between the public authorities, the wood federations and the distribution sector to increase the supply of certified timber in shops. The second instrument is the procurement clauses. They give priority to certified wood, but also to certified paper. Second point: the main results by Belgian actors relate to: - the sector's overall commitment to respect the due diligence system, - checks carried out on consignments placed on the Belgian market; - the transfer of information to other EU countries for timber transiting through Antwerp; - contacts with the Brazilian authorities to verify the validity of certain documents; - public procurement policies to promote certified wood and derived products, such as paper; - an increase in the share of certified wood offered for sale. In answer to your third question, I can tell you that Belgium's commitment is made through European policies which, in this context, have a stronger overall effect than our national policies. And finally, for your last question, on principle, we can only support such a plan. However, we must remain cautious in view of the difficulties already encountered in the proper implementation of the timber regulation. The measures resulting from such a plan should be realistic in order to be able to be implemented on the ground and verified by the authorities. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic179x.u20	Madam President, I would like to thank the Minister for her reply. In any case, I will also request the report you have forwarded to the European Commission, Madam Minister. It seems interesting to me to know the specific data you have listed. I think it's important to step up. I have heard in your reply that you see a number of points for improvement. I believe that this is important, since we are a turntable, including through the Antwerp port, of the international timber trade. Let me give you a few figures. As far as trade in Cameroon's timber is concerned, we are number one. Even for Brazil, we are entry point number 5 in the world. This indicates that a lot of wood is being transported here, whether illegally or not. The maturation period is now about two years old. The difficulty lies, of course, in the enforcement of the Wood Regulation. You also mention that you have a half-time equivalent to vouch for that enforcement. There are very limited resources. According to Greenpeace, it is barely 20 to 30 000 euros. I also hear you say that you will soon be consulting to increase resources and staff numbers. Otherwise, we will end up with that regulation in a context of impunity. The due diligence requirements shall be complied with by economic operators. Moreover, there is not even a transparent list of economic operators. It is therefore important to start an effective policy. I hope that consultation, both internally with NGOs and with the Foreign Affairs Office, will strengthen the demand for a European approach.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic179x.u21	A little clarification, Madam President, will take place on September 7.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic179x.u22	Madam Secretary, I had six questions. I have received an answer to four questions. I suspect that you have answered a question that I have previously addressed to Minister Reynders and which has been raised in this committee, without my knowledge, when I was not there. I would like to ask you if you can give me a written answer to those other questions so that I do not have to bother you anymore. I just want to say that the government is one and indivisible. This isn't just your responsibility. The Minister for Development and the Minister for Foreign Affairs are also responsible. I have heard that a policy paper on deforestation in Africa is being worked on at the Foreign Affairs Council. I would strongly urge the government to do so. Just yesterday Greenpeace Africa issued a new report on logging in Congo, called Trading in Chaos. It shows the negative impact of logging on the environment, but also how little Congo gets back. I therefore believe that this should be a priority issue for the government. I agree with your colleagues Mr De Croo and Mr Reynders in this discussion. I'm sorry, again, that next Wednesday I won't be able to be there for foreign commitments. Otherwise, I would have liked to have taken part in the debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic179x.u23	No problem. I'll send you the answers to those two questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic179x.u24	Will you also forward them to the secretariat of the commission?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic179x.u25	Certainly, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic179x.u26	Thank you very much. As your microphone has been cut off, I would like to ask you for confirmation of the consultation meeting. Is it well planned for September 7?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic179x.u27	Yes, that's right.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic179x.u28	For information, on 3 June, we will receive someone from the European Commission, a representative from Greenpeace and WWF, and a member of the Environment FPS. A customs officer is also invited, but we are awaiting confirmation. Finally, we will hear a representative of the Federation of Timber Importers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic179x.u29	Mr President, Minister, since 1 January 2015, the Royal Decree setting the threshold levels for emissions to the indoor environment of construction products for certain intended uses has been in force. The purpose of this regulation is to clean up the indoor air. After all, it is often of worse quality than the outside air. The Royal Decree in question imposes limits on the release of chemicals from floor coverings. Wall and ceiling coverings can be harmful to health in the same way. Madam Minister, the intention was to set maximum values for wall and ceiling coverings in the future. Are you still planning on doing that? What's the status? By when can we expect more clarity and information?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic179x.u30	Mr President, Mrs Dedry, the extension of the Royal Decree to ceiling and wall coverings is certainly on the agenda. It is important to create a level playing field by addressing all sources of hazardous substances to the indoor environment, preferably in a similar way. The High Health Council, the Consumer Council and the Federal Council for Sustainable Development also confirm this commitment in official opinions. Where are we now? Last year, we began a preparatory study to extend the scope of the Royal Decree establishing threshold levels for emissions of substances from construction products to wall and ceiling coatings in order to gain a better understanding of the definitions of materials and the market. An initial risk analysis was also part of the objectives. The final report was approved on 13 March 2015. In the meantime, a workshop has already been held with a broad participation of the various stakeholders on 23 February 2010. We must now deal with the results of the study and the workshop. The workshop has shown that it will be necessary to continue to consult with certain actors, for example some plates made from wood-based material and some paintings, especially because the requirements contained in the royal decree published are more difficult to achieve since there are far more wall coverings than floor coverings. These requirements are based on recent European recommendations being developed. We can certainly provide you with further information at a later stage if you wish. All the industrial players have praised the approach of the previous royal decree and we therefore want to approach enlargement in the same way, which means a combination of scientifically substantiated criteria, the creation of a basis and the taking into account of the impact on the Belgian and European markets with a view to making progress. When can we expect more clarity and can I provide a specific schedule? In the second half of 2015 we will draw up a first proposal and consult with the various parties concerned. This will take several months, following which we will follow the official opinion procedures: European notification, Belgian Advisory Council, etc. We will therefore be awaiting publication with a view to enlargement in 2016 at the earliest. In the meantime, we will have learned more about the implementation of the existing royal decree and the harmonised European method of testing will have enabled us to gain more experience.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic179x.u31	Madam Secretary, it all takes a lot of time. I'm definitely interested in receiving the additional information.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic179x.u32	Madam Minister, on 19 March, the French National Assembly voted to ban, from January 2016, plant protection products from the neonicotinoid family because they are known to be toxic to bees, which are obviously essential pollinators not only for biodiversity but also for our entire food chain. This ban applies to the whole family of neonicotinoids in order to avoid the use, because it is known that it is practiced, of similar formulas belonging to the same family but which avoid the restrictions that already exist concerning these substances. To formulate this question, I have allowed myself to use extracts from the "Belgian Sillon" because I find it interesting that our farmers point out the damage, the risks and the toxicity found following the conclusions of a whole series of studies, more specifically 800 studies which have been published over the last 20 years, where it appears every time that regulations concerning these neonicotinoids, particularly Fipronil, need to be tightened, and that they really need to be planned on a global scale and therefore on a European and national scale, the risks being obvious to the health of our environment and bees. Another interesting element, increasingly, the studies show that the consequences are perceived on other insects, on other invertebrate animals but also on vertebrate animals. Thus, a Flemish study published a few weeks ago shows that there is pollution of the waters in Flanders due to substances belonging to this family. Following these different findings, similar measures have already been taken, such as the European Regulation 485/2013, which restricts the use of three neonicotinoids to seed coating of winter cereals only and post-flowering spraying of attractive crops for bees or the other Regulation 781/2013, which almost completely prohibits the use of Fipronil. There will be an evaluation two years after these measures. It is expected to take place after December 2015. I believe that there are both measures to be taken for Belgium to ensure that this assessment is carried out and that it is not forgotten, in order to use a light formula. But it is also interesting or even indispensable, I believe, to take measures that are more restrictive than those that now exist, in the image of France. Does the Belgian Government intend to do so? Are there any elements at Belgian level that can already highlight the effects of the restrictions on moratoriums that are already under way for substances in this family? My questions focus on the future and evaluations. Do we already have one? Will we ensure that this evaluation is carried out at Belgian and European level?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic179x.u33	Mr President, Mrs Gerkens, the bee mortality surveys carried out in the framework of Epilobee, a project which you certainly know not to be renewed in 2015, continued in 2014. Analysis of these data has not yet been finalized. We cannot therefore know whether there has been an improvement since 2013. My colleague, Minister Borsus, is responsible for the authorisation of plant protection products and it is with the support of his administration that I can provide you with the following answers. Restrictions on active substances imidaclopride, thiamethoxam and Clothianidine entered into force at the end of 2013 and therefore did not have a significant effect on sales in 2013. In 2014, on the basis of unconsolidated, therefore provisional, statistics, there was a decrease from 2012 of 14.3% for clothianidine, 7.4% for imidacloprid and 71.2% for thiamethoxam. For all three neonicotinoids, this represents a 36% decrease. Fipronil has not been sold in Belgium for years. It is too early to establish a link between these restrictions and the health of bees. On the other hand, the direct and immediate link between neonicotinoid sales and bee health has not been established and may not be possible in the future for the following reasons. I quote the reasons given to me. First, it is generally recognized that the causes of bee mortality are multifactorial. Measures that address one of the potential factors cannot therefore guarantee a significant effect. Secondly, the restrictions on neonicotinoids were imposed following the conclusion of a study by the European Food Safety Authority (EFSA) that it has not been satisfactorily demonstrated that the use of these substances as granules and as seed treatment in certain crops is safe for bees. In other words, these measures do not result from a finding of quantifiable effects of neonicotinoids on bees following treatments in practice, but from uncertainty as to the possible impact of these substances. Therefore, we do not have the relevant and reliable scientific analysis. Finally, neonicotinoids are quite persistent. It is therefore not excluded that these substances remain present in the environment and that they produce their effects with a delay, since bees are potentially exposed to harmful levels for some time after the restrictions. The Higher Council of Health has been tasked with reviewing recent studies on neonicotinoids, including articles from the Task Force on Systemic Pesticides. In the same mandate, the Council was also mandated to assess the impact on human health, in particular on developmental toxicity, which is the subject of the Kimura-Kuroda study you cited. The Council should submit its opinion within the following months and on the basis of this opinion, my colleague Minister Borsus, who is responsible for the authorisation of plant protection products, will have to decide whether measures are necessary, in good agreement with Minister De Block and myself. In addition, assessments of neonicotinoids at EU level continue. After assessing the effects of neonicotinoids applied as granules or seed treatments, the European Food Safety Agency is now finalising the conclusions on the four types of applications of these substances, including foliar treatments. These conclusions will be followed by a debate at European level on the need for stricter or possibly less severe restrictions. The scientific basis is not yet complete and secure. The work continues but it is clear that the Higher Council of Health is concerned about this and is finalizing studies that will give results for the authorisation or not of plant protection products.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic179x.u34	Minister, it is time for the Supreme Council of Health to address this issue. It's still quite surprising that he didn't do it earlier after the incredible number of studies that show that there are impacts. Are neonicotinoids the only factor in the disappearance of bees? No! Are they? Yes, there is a consensus to say so. Prohibiting its use will obviously have consequences for producers who need to develop substitutes, and it is known that there are substitutes. It will be a political will that will lead them to the substitutes. And that will only happen if the States are clear! Hazards are highlighted not yet for humans, but for all the other species I have mentioned. I therefore believe that a position must be taken which forces industry to move towards other substances. I know that Belgian beavers are particularly concerned. What happens if we take action? If they are concerned, it is because the sweets have production requirements vis-à-vis them. They are prepared to put their health at risk so that they can continue to live from their activity. It is therefore once again policy to support them in order to prevent them from being exposed to products which, in any case, will have to be taken responsibility for later, since, as with other toxic substances, there is a risk that they will have to repair the damage because sufficient measures have not been taken when there was still time. I therefore insist that action be taken and that this assessment of the European regulation after two years should take place after December 2015.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic179x.u35	Minister, from April 12 to 17, the 7th World Water Forum was held in South Korea. This year, the theme of the event was "Water for our future". It dealt with access to water and equity in how it was distributed. Water is a common good of humanity, which is indispensable for the life and socio-economic development of people. The right to drinking water and sanitation must be a human right enshrined in the national Constitutions and respected in international relations. In this regard, it is essential that Belgium advocates at all levels for transparent and public water management. Minister, was the federal authority represented at this Forum in South Korea? What messages did our country defend in these debates? What analyses do you give of the work of this summit and its conclusions?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic179x.u36	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the Coormulti Sustainable Development, which is the coordinating body for the sustainable development of the federal authority with the federated entities, discussed this Forum at its meeting on 10 March 2015. The approach was provided by the Water Steering Group of the International Environmental Policy Coordination Committee (IEPCC). The CCFIE sees the World Water Forum as an informal circuit, as no treaty has established the World Water Forum in question. However, French diplomacy has worked in favour of such an initiative, making lobbying well understood through various channels after the closing of the last edition of the Forum held in Marseille. Belgium follows this case, but only from a defensive point of view, according to the expression of the diplomats. Officially, there was no participation by Belgium in this Forum. Nor did the water sector participate. The Millennium Development Goals, which end at the end of this year, include a halving of the number of people without access to safe drinking water. This has been achieved and more than 2.3 billion people have gained access to safe drinking water in recent years. In health, too, significant progress has been made. However, challenges remain and progress varies from place to place. This explains the new post-2015 agenda for poverty reduction and sustainable development that follows the Millennium Development Goals, on which an agreement is expected to be reached in September, and which incorporates a sustainable development goal for sustainable water management and sanitation for all. Belgium supports the inclusion of this water-related target in the post-2015 agenda and is actively involved in the related negotiations.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic179x.u37	Madam President, at this stage, I would like to thank the Minister for her answer. I will, however, investigate further because it seems to me that we are absent in this area. But maybe it's just an impression. I will come back to the matter later.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic179x.u38	Question No 4056 by Mrs Temmerman is postponed at her request. However, Madam Minister, we would like to point out to her that you have provided some answers to the debate on the Paris Conference. We'll invite him to consult with her.
