ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic139x.u1	Madam President, Mr Secretary of State, these are two joint questions. I'll start with the general part. We have received a number of points in the Flemish Government's atoll file. That is why I have the following questions. What points will be taken into account in the next phase, namely the EIA? Are there any other reservations than those expressed by the Flemish Government and which will be the subject of the EIA? In short, how will the next procedure proceed? My second question, linked to the previous one, is the following. I was rather remodelled to hear that a Walloon Minister of Energy dares to declare that offshore...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic139x.u2	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic139x.u3	Is this a separate question? However, the question relates to the same subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic139x.u4	Mr De Vriendt has taken up his question on the energy atoll.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic139x.u5	Then I'll ask my next question later. I was too fast. Please excuse me.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic139x.u6	Madam President, Mr Secretary of State, my questions are somewhat more specific and comprehensive. Mr Secretary of State, soon you will propose to the Council of Ministers to grant a concession for the construction of an energy atoll to the consortium iLand, a group of public and private investors. The consortium consists of a number of dredging companies, Electrabel and investment companies. The site of the atoll is planned off the coast of De Haan, as specified in the Marine Space Plan. The advantage of the energy atoll is undoubtedly the use of renewable energy. Other advantages, for example for fisheries, are not imaginary either. At the Coast Forum, on which you and I were present, we heard that several voices were cautiously in favour of energy atoll. At the same time, questions remain open, some of which can now undoubtedly be answered, as a consortium was found willing to make the investment. This means that they have an insight into the profitability. Otherwise, they would not be candidates to take over the operation. Mr Secretary of State, what is the timing for the further steps in the process, the building permit and the EIA? A number of public investment companies are involved. What financial contribution does the government make? What is the estimated cost of the atoll? What is the estimated lifetime of the atoll? What happens to the infrastructure after that? What do you think are the benefits of the atoll? How do you deal with the possible disadvantages, such as the impact on nature, on the flow pattern and on the deposition of sand? After all, we invest a lot in dredging and other works. I have another question concerning the over-capacity of energy. How much overcapacity will it take to fill the atoll with water? How many hours of wind is it about with the current capacity of windmills? For how many hours can the filled energy atoll then deliver energy when the windmills black out? How much energy are we talking about? How many families can be supplied in this way? Are you actually expecting a positive effect on coastal security against storms? You're not gonna rule out building on the island? Finally, it is interesting to check whether there are examples of such an energy atoll abroad or of other forms of renewable energy batteries.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic139x.u7	Madam President, Mrs Dumery, Mr De Vriendt, thank you for your questions on energy atoll. In the last few days and weeks, statements have been made on this subject, and I would like to make it very clear in advance that I am following the procedure. In this procedure some apparently put me in the camp of the supporters and others in the camp of the opponents. I am the Secretary of State responsible for delivering the domain concession and I must adhere to guidelines and procedures, to the legal elements of the Royal Decree-Law. That is the objective position I have in that regard. There may be strong supporters and opponents, but I am trying to take an objective view. Maybe it's a good idea for me to explain the procedure. On 28 July 2014, a concession application was submitted by the iLand consortium for the construction of the energy atoll for the zone to the Wenduinebank. You know that there are two zones in the spatial plan. An application was made for the Wenduinebank. Following that application, the competition phase and the advisory procedure will follow. During the competition phase, no other candidates applied and no objections were raised to the candidacy of the iLand consortium. As regards the post-competition advisory procedure, a large number of administrations provided advice according to the Royal Decree of 8 May 2014, which sets out the procedure and conditions for granting the concession. This concerns many bodies, namely the FPS Mobility, the FPS Environment, Science Policy, Defence, the Maritime Police, the FPS Finance, the CREG, the FPS Economy, Elia and the Flemish government. All the opinions received were positive. I want to make it very clear that there was no negative opinion. However, two bodies, namely the Flemish Government and the CREG, have made a number of comments. I would like to stress that I will analyse these comments, including those of the Flemish authorities, in a very thorough and objective manner, as far as the EIA procedure is concerned. However, I say clearly "as far as the EIA procedure is concerned', because a number of conditions and comments in the Flemish government's opinion relate only to the location. I would point out that the chosen concession zone is fixed. I have to stick to the marine spatial plan, in which connection during the previous legislature with all the relevant authorities, including the Flemish government, was sought to strike a balance between the activities in the North Sea. I can't change that anymore. The location must be in the marine spatial plan. I was therefore surprised that the Flemish government made comments about the location. This is a procedure that has been completed in the past. When it comes to environmental impacts, of course they have a point. I will, of course, analyse all this very thoroughly and, together with the Flemish government, take a number of steps. I believe that the Flemish government has something to say about this. I therefore think it is very important that we work together. By the way, we've already had contacts. Another important point that I have made a few times in the past, including in public fora, is the economic profitability of the project. I would like to emphasise that Article 6/1 of the Act of 29 April 1999 on the organisation of the electricity market clearly states that there are no public subsidies attached to the project. It must therefore be a purely private initiative. A number of financial and economic parameters should be examined within the concession procedure. Following this advisory procedure, the Minister's representative must submit a proposal for a decision to me. This must be done within 30 days. Next, I must submit a proposal for signature to the King, or the applicant for the concession must be informed of the refusal of the concession. On 18 March, I received a proposal to grant the concession with a corresponding draft of the Royal Decree in a letter of clarification from the Minister's representative. I therefore received a proposal from the administration concerned with a positive opinion to grant the concession. This means that it has been established that all the conditions have been met. The government will continue to discuss this concession award in the next few days, taking into account the stated timing. That concession does not constitute an end-point. In fact, it is only a starting point, because after the concession procedure the EIA procedure follows, in which all environmental impacts and mainly the comments of the Flemish Government must be examined. For example, the applicant's expertise will be examined, as will the impact on emissions, CO2 emissions, the legal framework and, above all, the impact on the environment, in the short, medium and long term. The impact on fauna and flora, on biodiversity, on humans, on soil, on water and so on will be investigated. The sea view is also a not insignificant fact. I understand the people who live on the coast, and I myself am a coastal resident, in the sense that the sea view must not be disturbed roughly. If all the effects, or a large part of them, were harmful, then there would be no building and environmental permit. I'm telling you that already. Questions were also asked about the composition of the consortium. The following partners are in the consortium: DEME Blue Energy, DEME NV, the Participating Company Flanders, PoweratSea nv, la Société Régionale d'Investissement de Wallonie Environment, SOCOFE SA, Electrabel and Jan De Nul. In fact, three participating companies are involved, not only the Flemish but also those from Wallonia, in accordance with all the procedures and regulations applicable to them. I understand that some people are now saying that they are government subsidies. Well, the participation companies invest under exactly the same conditions as the other partners. Participating companies are companies governed by private law and are therefore subject to the same conditions of company law. There is therefore no financial contribution from the government. The cost of building the atoll is estimated to be between EUR 1.3 billion and EUR 1.6 billion. That is what I derive from the statements made by the initiators. The annual maintenance costs would be around 5 or 6 million euros. We can therefore say that investment costs are high, but maintenance costs are rather limited. The domain concession can only be granted for a limited period. This is also stated in the Royal Decree of 8 May 2014. It shall run for 50 years, with a possible extension of 25 years. During the operating phase, a commission has to be set up to cover the reallocation on termination of the concession. A technical working group will follow up on the re-destination every year. I am convinced that if all the legal and environmental conditions are met, this project can play a crucial role in the security of supply of our country. A net storage capacity of 2 000 megawatts of useful energy is planned. This allows several hundred thousand families to be supplied for four hours. Mr De Vriendt, you also asked how many hours the filled energy atoll can provide energy when the windmills black out. I would point out that not only the overcapacity of the windmills can be stored in the atoll, but also that of other forms of energy. If there is an excess capacity of any kind of energy, it can be stored in the atoll. It is a reserve of 400 to 600 megawatts for four hours. It is therefore a capacity for about 350 000 families. You also asked if there could be construction on the island. This is also laid down in the Marine Spatial Plan, which stipulates that only the construction and operation of a visitor centre on the island is permitted. Other forms of housing are excluded. It is therefore absolutely impossible for apartment buildings or other constructions to be built there, not even windmills. The only thing that can get there is a visitor center. It is also necessary to provide for active conservation measures on the island, such as a resting place for seals and a breeding ground for gulls and/or terns reportedly would not match gulls and terns properly. It was also asked whether such projects exist abroad. Well, I can tell you that this does not exist anywhere else in the world and that it is therefore an absolute world premier. We would plan it in our limited North Sea area, which would give us an international impetus. If we want to meet our European energy objectives and ensure our supplies, we must at least examine whether or not we can give such new forms of energy a chance. There is also international interest in this. I was in Abu Dhabi last week and there was clearly an interest. Also from Japan has been contacted. This project can be an important link in our future energy policy. I shall come back to that later, Mrs Dumery, in relation to the question on Mr Furlan. The windmills occasionally provide large excess capacity, which has been the case in recent days. Occasionally they provide little or no energy at wind silence. At some point one has to do something with it, otherwise it is lost energy and a lost investment. For the wind farms, as you know, there were also concessions via green electricity certificates. If the windmills do not render in a serious way, it will also cost money, not only for the wind farms, but also for the payers of the green electricity certificates. I think I have answered all the questions. If not, I am sure you will draw my attention to that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic139x.u8	Mr Secretary of State, you may have to repeat the review of the procedure often, because it is mainly the location that causes resistance. The procedure in itself is indeed clear and there is no alternative but to follow it. The overview is important. Taking into account that resistance is mainly due to the location, I am convinced that it is a missed chance that we do not first discuss a project of world fame at the other location, with perhaps additional possibilities for Zeebrugge. It's what it is. I wish you every success with the project itself, because I am sure it is a good project. However, the location alone will create a lot of resistance.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic139x.u9	Mr Secretary of State, it is in itself a very interesting project. You yourself have outlined the challenges of renewable energy and a shortage of battery capacity. That technological problem is well known. Mrs Dumery, let us not fall into the nimby syndrome, but follow the procedure well. There are still steps to be taken. You asked why De Haan and not Zeebrugge were chosen. I understand that it is also a matter of investors who want to make the investment and who want to take the first step. However, I would like to ask that the EIA study be carried out in an objective and correct manner. After all, there are still a lot of questions open, some of which I have outlined. We still have to look at the positive impact on coastal security against storms. Of course, the atoll itself will also have to be protected from possible storms. It is a bit the problem of the Flemish Bays. You know the discussion: if you were to build there, then of course that building should also be protected. Furthermore, I believe that those who have already declared themselves opposed at this early stage underestimate the opportunities for tourism. If we got a world premiere off our coast, it could be part of De Haan's tourist attraction. Mr Secretary of State, I have another supplementary question. I asked about the state's financial contribution, to which you replied that there are a number of participating companies involved. Is it clear what amounts are involved?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic139x.u10	I do not, of course, know the internal balance and the internal relations and agreements of the consortium. I know which partners are involved, but I do not know to what extent they contribute individually to the project. I know, however, that the CREG has said in its opinion that there is sufficient capacity. When one hears the names of the players, one can indeed assume that they have sufficient financial capacity. At the same time, I would like to comment on another important aspect. It is, of course, a private project that can help our country achieve the 20-20-20 renewable energy targets. If it is a private project and if participation companies participate, then it is not the intention to make a loss. In other words, the financial picture is incredibly important. I said two things. Firstly, there will be no subsidies from the government. Secondly, at the end of the journey, I do not think that electricity consumers, whether they are households or businesses, should experience a significant increase in their energy bill. Of course it won't be free. I have already heard statements about this, which I did not want to respond to because it is not my competence. I have to award the domain concession. The financial picture and the fact that this is addressed within the overall energy supply in this country are the responsibility of my colleague, Mrs Marghem. It must decide in the overall energy policy, together with the Ministers for Energy of the Regions, what this global energy policy of our federal state is. The consideration of how much energy will cost from the atoll to the electricity companies...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic139x.u11	...that's for another commission.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic139x.u12	Indeed, you take the words out of my mouth, Madam President. That's for a committee other than the Health Committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic139x.u13	Mr Secretary of State, I fully agree with that last point. Indeed, it would not be a good thing if profitability were to be achieved only if the full costs were recovered from the energy bill of the individual consumer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic139x.u14	You may ask your questions to the Minister of Energy, if you wish, in another committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic139x.u15	Mr Secretary of State, I think you were as surprised as I was when we heard that a Walloon Minister for Energy found investment and innovation in wind energy in the North Sea nonsense and wanted to stop future parks there. I wonder what he's getting into. Unfortunately, the North Sea is still a federal matter, but I do not know why a Walloon minister should comment on it. Mr Secretary of State, I have the following questions. Have you received a reply from Mr Furlan or have you had any consultations with him on this matter? Has he now come to the understanding that it can also be of great importance for Wallonia to achieve certain energy objectives?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic139x.u16	Mrs Dumery, like you, I was particularly surprised by the statements made by the Walloon Minister for Energy. It was rather scratchy that the entire Belgian offshore industry was dismissed as nonsense and that he asked to stop the creation of future parks. Offshore production is crucial for the overall supply of renewable energy, including for security of supply. Yesterday alone, offshore wind farms supplied electricity for more than one and a half million families. The problem is even that we have to shut down a number of windmills in such weather conditions, otherwise we will be supplying too much electricity. If you link with the atoll: we who have a shortage of energy and can hardly count on our own energy supply, windmills must stop in the North Sea, because we supply too much electricity at a certain time and in certain circumstances. Can you imagine that? Yesterday we were talking about one and a half million families. Overall, the existing wind farms delivered electricity for around 635 000 households on an annual basis in 2014. With the upcoming wind farms, for which the concessions have already been made and which they will start building in the coming years, we arrive at 2 200 megawatts. That's good for more than a million families if it doesn't go in the direction of the two million. This will normally enable us to meet half of the energy needs of Belgian families. This is not insignificant, given that the capacity of offshore wind farms at sea already means more than all the windmills that are on land today, and that they have a better return. I was surprised because Mr Furlan's group in the Chamber also expressed its support and said that there were relevant and interesting perspectives in the North Sea. Apparently, Mr Furlan does not share his party's views here in the Chamber. We need renewable energy. offshore production can play a very important role in this and we will, of course, continue to evaluate it. I haven't had a conversation with Mr. Furlan yet. I would be more than happy to discuss this with him. Policy-makers at all levels should rather reach out to each other when it comes to achieving renewable green energy objectives and climate objectives, rather than catching each other's flies. If Mr Furlan, in other words, wants to achieve renewable energy in his area of responsibility, then I wish him every success. However, until further notice, the North Sea is a joint competence of me and Mrs Marghem.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic139x.u17	Instead of waiting for a response from Mr Furlan, I think you should express your own displeasure. Above all, I think it is a lack of knowledge about offshore production with the associated innovation and activity. Especially in the North Sea we are still doing too little, which is a very small and turbulent sea. When we see what other countries are doing at sea, about innovation and research, I think we can go much further. In any case, I find the statements of the Walloon Minister for Energy completely misplaced, especially in a federal country such as Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic139x.u18	Mr. Furlan likes to criticize what others are doing!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic139x.u19	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for coming to this committee. The exchange was interesting. We are waiting for the Minister of the Environment.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic139x.u20	Question No. 1835 by Mrs. Maya Detiège is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic139x.u21	Madam President, Minister, the road to the global climate meeting in Paris is still strewn with important international and internal milestones. On the occasion of this oral question, I wanted to make a point with you on some of them. Can you transmit to me and to the committee the text of the results of the Geneva negotiations which took place in mid-February? One of the IPCC Vice-Presidents, who is Belgian, believes that on this basis an agreement is possible in Paris but that it will be largely insufficient to remain below 2°C. Do you have a diverging analysis? If so, on what elements is it based? What are the agendas for the next steps prior to the final negotiations planned in Paris? National contributions were to be pledged by 31 March; it is 1 April. Therefore, you should be able to answer precisely the question of what your ambitions and objectives are in this area. What is the status of Belgium in its internal effort-sharing work? What is the internal work schedule? On the purely federal side, what is the status of the completion of the Federal Climate Change Adaptation Plan? Where are the formalisations of Belgium's financial commitments (United Nations Adaptation Fund, Green Fund, etc.)?( )? Let me turn to my second question, which relates to what the press announced on 14 March, namely that you announced that you would preside over the Belgian delegation at the Paris conference. I would like to know what joint, inter-federal decision allows you to assert this loud and clear. Minister Furlan says the opposite. He said that he would chair the Belgian delegation. But you say you have "a whole legal laius on it." Beyond the answer to my question about the decision you are holding on to to assert this, could you share with us this "laius", so that it can also irritate the thoughts of your colleague Furlan? The controversy continued in the press on 26 March, where it was noted that he held his position high and strong, in response to a question put to the Walloon Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic139x.u22	Madam President, dear colleague, you are going to be spoiled: to follow a start of case law that we initiated yesterday, whenever your questions are short, my answers are provided. I attach the utmost importance to the process of international negotiations on climate change, which should lead to the adoption of an ambitious multilateral agreement at the 21st Conference of the Parties (COP 21) in Paris. According to the European Union, the Paris Protocol should lead to Belgian and European approaches and commitments, which I hope will contribute to this ambitious multilateral agreement. The negotiating text resulting from the Geneva session is available to the general public on the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change website. It is available online in six official languages of the United Nations. I will send you a copy by e-mail, as it has a minimum of 85 pages. Secondly, it is important to distinguish between the agreement itself and the contributions made by the parties in the context of that agreement. Indeed, many warning signs indicate that the contributions proposed by the parties in the context of the post-2020 agreement will not be sufficiently ambitious to achieve our common objective of limiting warming to a maximum of 2°C compared to pre-industrial levels. This also applies to commitments made by the parties before 2020 under the Kyoto Protocol. To address these challenges, we wish to include in the agreement a cycle of ambitions that would require the parties to reconsider their level of ambition every five years, taking into account the latest scientific developments and technological developments. This should allow us to increase the level of ambition gradually over the coming years and to move closer to an emission path compatible with the 2°C target. In addition, it is essential that the agreement define common rules for measuring, verifying and accounting for emissions from the parties in order to preserve environmental integrity, avoid double counting and measure individual and collective ambition. Thirdly, negotiating sessions of the Durban Platform, the United Nations climate body, in which negotiations for the Paris Agreement take place, are scheduled to take place in Bonn from 1 to 11 June, from 29 August to 4 September and from 19 to 23 October. The most detailed approach to the conduct of these sessions will be published by its co-chairs a few weeks before the sessions, but they will all focus on the mandate of the Durban Platform, namely to negotiate the Paris Agreement and increase the level of ambition pre-2020. In the course of 2015, at dates still to be determined, the French COP21 Presidency also intends to organise informal consultations on specific topics, in connection with the agreement. It should also be noted that important parallel processes will take place throughout the year, such as the G20, the Major Economies Forum, the High Level Event, organized by the President of the UN General Assembly in June, the third Financial for Development Summit in Addis Ababa in July, and the broader negotiations on the Post-2015 Agenda for Development, which will culminate next September in New York. At European level, the Commission published its Communication "Paris Protocol – Programme to Combat Global Climate Change after 2020" on 25 February. To answer your fourth question, I would say that the European Union will communicate a single contribution based on the conclusions of the October 2014 European Council on the 2030 Energy-Climate package. Work is currently under way to translate the Council's conclusions into a format more adapted to the context of the negotiations. The Environment Council of 6 March adopted the official document to be submitted to the secretariat of the Climate Convention. To your fifth question, I answer this: the concertation committee, at its meeting on 28 January, instructed the National Climate Commission to resume negotiations without delay on the sharing of the Belgian objectives of the Energy-Climate package 2013-2020 between the federal government and the regional governments. It also agreed that the government of the entity chairing the National Climate Commission – namely, for the time being, the Brussels-Capital Region – should be responsible, after consensus within the Commission, for proposing to the Conciliation Committee a draft political agreement on the allocation of efforts, together with a work plan, in order to finalize the administrative procedures for its implementation. The four sides shared their proposals on the starting point for further discussions. For my part, I plead to go back to the note introduced in December 2013 in the National Climate Commission under the Walloon presidency. So we don't leave a white leaf. We cannot afford to delay the conclusion of an agreement, which would have serious consequences for Belgium's compliance with its European and international commitments. To your penultimate question, it is answered that a draft Federal Climate Change Adaptation Plan has been drafted in close collaboration with the federal departments responsible for the subject matter. This draft plan, which aims to use the range of levers available to the federal authority in different sectors to pursue a coordinated adaptation policy, takes into account the results of the public consultation held from 17 February 2014 to 18 April 2014, as well as the opinion of the Federal Council on Sustainable Development, which was delivered on 23 April 2014. It responds to the federal commitment made in the context of the national adaptation strategy as adopted by the National Climate Commission in 2010. I intend to have this draft adopted by the Council of Ministers as soon as possible, in consultation with my colleagues involved in its implementation. As you mentioned in your last question, Belgium committed in December 2013 to contribute EUR 3.25 million to the Adaptation Fund, i.e. EUR 1.5 million for the Federal Authority, EUR 1 million for the Flemish Region, EUR 500 000 for the Brussels-Capital Region and EUR 250 000 for the Walloon Region. I can confirm that the contributions from the three regions have been paid, and I am confident that an agreement can be reached within the Council of Ministers to mobilise the 1.5 million we still have to pay. In addition, in December 2014, our country pledged to contribute at least €51.6 million over the period 2015-2018 to the Green Climate Fund, 50 million from the federal authority, 1 million from the Walloon Region, €600,000 from the Brussels-Capital Region and still nothing for the Flemish Region. I can already tell you that the Brussels-Capital Region has already paid its contribution, while the federal authority made a payment of 40 million euros in 2014 and that our remaining 10 million will be paid this year. I very much hope that the Walloon Region will pay its share as soon as possible and that the Flemish Region will find funds in the future to support the most vulnerable countries. Mr Nollet, I come to your second question. The answer I'm going to give you is a real laius, that is, een hele boterham, and holds in three big points. The first point concerns representation at European level. The questions of competence for Belgium's representation in the field of climate change at European level are based on the Cooperation Agreement between the Federal State, the Communities and the Regions on the representation of the Kingdom of Belgium in the Council of Ministers of the European Union of 8 March 1994. According to Annex 1 of this Agreement, the division of powers for Belgium's representation in the European Union follows a division into six categories, which organizes the federal representation and the empowerment of federated entities. Although the theme of climate change extends far beyond environmental expertise, the same categorization applies. Environmental matters were originally included in Category 2 and following the Interdepartmental Foreign Policy Conference (IPPC) of February 28, 2002, environmental matters were included in Category 3, i.e. as a mixed matter. According to the notification of the CEIP session, this change took place under two conditions: first, the competent federal minister will continue to represent Belgium multilaterally; second, a reform of the coordination of international environmental policy will be undertaken in order to achieve a strengthened structure of cooperation for European and multilateral environmental policy. The creation of a joint European and multilateral environmental policy unit and structure will also be studied. That is the case for representation at European level. I now come to multilateral representation. Belgium's representation in international environmental forums is governed by the Cooperation Agreement of 5 April 1995 on international environmental policy, which was concluded between the Federal State and the three Regions. In line with this, the Committee for the Coordination of International Environmental Policy (CCPIE), which celebrates its twenty years of good functioning in 2015, determines the composition of Belgian delegations to the bodies of international organisations and designates their spokespersons. The practice has led to the competent federal minister representing Belgium multilaterally on an ongoing basis. Subsequently, it was endorsed by the CCFIE Agreement of 28 February 2002. The agreement within CEIP and the cooperation agreement of 1995 have thus given rise to a constant practice accepted and recognised by all parties, which has developed over the last 20 years. Indeed, the CCFIE has consistently agreed on the role of the competent federal minister as Belgium's spokesperson in international negotiations on climate change within the United Nations. I attach great importance to cooperation with the governments of the federated entities, as you know, particularly as regards their representation in the European Union and international organisations. I believe that the pragmatic approach I have just outlined to you is adapted to our institutions and to the reality on the ground. I still have a little detail to add. The regional demand to change Belgium's representational rules and practices in international climate change negotiations is based on two elements. On the one hand, climate change is an exclusively regional competence, says the Region. On the other hand, the principle in foro interno, in foro externo applies to Belgium's representation in international fora, both European and multilateral. However, I have other important points to make, six of them.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic139x.u23	I remind you that normally an oral question must be dealt with in five minutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic139x.u24	It's a real laius. I'm saying the principal. I wanted to talk about the case law.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic139x.u25	Tell us. But next time, you'll know!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic139x.u26	I'll be careful. It's true that I'm never tired of talking. The Working Group on Mixed Treaties, meeting on 26 September 2012, confirmed the mixed nature of the Kyoto Protocol by deciding on the mixed nature of the related amendments. This decision was accepted by the Flemish Region and endorsed in the minutes of the working group on 4 December 2012. The Flemish mitigation plan 2013-2020 sets out the Flemish view on the distribution of climate change competences at Belgian level and says, on page 25: "Het klimaatdossier behoort in België tot een gedeeld takenpakket tussen de federale overheid en de Gewesten." The Council of State opinion No. 53.901 states that the fight against greenhouse gas emissions in buildings in the residential and secondary sectors is an exclusive regional competence, but this assertion cannot be applied by analogy to all areas of climate change. The Constitutional Court ruling No. 33 of 2011 states that the Regions are competent to reduce greenhouse gas emissions to the air within the limits of their territorial jurisdiction. In addition, the effective exercise of this competence is, in the present case (an aviation case), at this point intertwined with the federal powers which the Constitutional Court concludes that these powers can only be exercised in the framework of cooperation: the Cooperation Agreement of 8 March 1994 and the Agreement within the CEIP of 28 February 2002, which I have detailed to you. These are the elements of the laius in question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic139x.u27	Minister, thank you for your answer. I thank your staff for providing me with the information. On the first question, you confirm that we will not reach 2% at this time and you plan to reconsider every five years. But you do not say whether this is Belgium's position or that of the European Union.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic139x.u28	This is the position of my administration and my position.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic139x.u29	As regards the national contribution and that of the European Union, the date of 31 March has been exceeded, but it is clearly not yet given. You say she's still in the process of translation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic139x.u30	It is the European Union that must do this.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic139x.u31	It's April 1st.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic139x.u32	I cannot go faster than music because the European Union communicated yesterday, I am told. When I speak of a unique contribution, we have just received it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic139x.u33	Could anyone pass it on to me? [[Sentiment]] On the other hand, I note that for burden sharing, we're not there yet. I regret this delay as well as that on financial commitments. Consider this regret as well as the whole controversy over the presidencies and co-chairs. I believe that Belgium would be pleased to reach agreement on his delegation and, above all, to speak on the substance rather than on the way in which the delegation should be chaired. I will read carefully the laius that you read to us to verify the elements proposed in response to what Minister Furlan was talking about.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic139x.u34	In the turn of the 20 years, at least one socialist minister presided over this kind of delegation. I think Mr. Furlan will understand what I'm saying to him.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic139x.u35	I'll write down your comments. Always pay attention to this argument, especially when you're targeting Carolos. I can't believe we've always worked this way! For twenty years they did it, and then they had to change! And I'm talking about other policies here.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic139x.u36	Of course. Especially since you're an imported Carolo. Actually, you're a picky Walloon.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic139x.u37	And between the Picards and the others...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic139x.u38	I did not say that he would follow this purely factual and historical argument. I'm just saying that it's going to remind him of good memories.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic139x.u39	Attempted generalization of case law through usage. Madam Minister, last Monday I attended a meeting organised by the European Parliament which brought together the chairmen of the Health and Environment and Climate Committees. All the other national parliaments were present, as were representatives of the European Commission to discuss COP21 in December. There was no motion for a recommendation, but a report of this exchange will soon be distributed. We will forward it to you and to the members of the committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic139x.u40	Madam President, Madam Minister, a very recent study by the Harvard School of Public Health in March 2015 shows that there is a link or correlation between exposure to particulate matter during the last three months of pregnancy and autism in children. It's been an analysis of 1 767 children. Unfortunately, a significant connection was found. Of course, the results still need to be studied further. However, we cannot ignore the links between particulate matter and disease. That is why I am asking you the following questions. Firstly, will you also have the correlation between fine dust and autism investigated in Belgium? Secondly, of course, you are not the only one competent. Will you also raise the issue with your fellow Members, the Ministers for the Environment and certainly Mobility? After all, the main source of particulate matter is still car traffic. Thirdly, will the issue be discussed at the Interministerial Conference at the end of March 2015? What cross-jurisdiction measures will the current government take?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic139x.u41	Madam President, the relevant Harvard School of Public Health study shows a link between maternal exposure to particulate matter during pregnancy, especially during the third trimester, and autism spectrum disorders in the child. Autism is a multifactorial disorder whose risk factors are less known. In Belgium, air pollution is a well-known problem as everyone is exposed to air pollution. In addition, Belgium is a country with a high population density. The fight against air pollution is therefore a priority for public health. A recent study supported by the Flemish Government shows that there is a statistical relationship between behavioural development and exposure to fine particles, which generate problems. Overall, in recent scientific literature, we see evidence that air pollution, in addition to cardiovascular and respiratory effects, can also be associated with mental health, especially for cognitive and psychomotor development, behaviour and anxiety. In addition, air pollution is also associated with premature births and low birth weight, which in itself may also cause later development problems. But a static relationship does not necessarily mean that there is a causal link. Socio-economic aspects appear to be confounding factors. This has yet to be studied further. However, in the context of the sixth and subsequent reform of the State, this aspect no longer falls within federal jurisdiction. There has long been cooperation between the different entities on air quality and its health impact. At present, the Joint Inter-Ministerial Conference on the Environment, extended to health, the governments responsible for the Environment and Health at each level are working together to develop a better modelling of mortality in relation to air pollution. The problems of air quality are also regularly discussed with the Regions and the ICL. The ATMOS working group is the specific working group in which Brussels, Wallonia and Flanders exchange information. The issue of air quality is an item on the agenda for the next Inter-Ministerial Conference on the Environment. These studies will be forwarded to the ATMOS Working Group.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic139x.u42	Madam Secretary, thank you very much. It's annoying. It is always protected that it no longer belongs to its own jurisdiction, but that it belongs to the Regions. However, we are also concerned about this, and we still have a Federal Minister for Health. Fine dust is also related to mobility, to car traffic, and these are also federal powers. So I do not understand why people are always trying to transfer this to another level of competence.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic139x.u43	I did not negotiate the sixth reform of the state!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic139x.u44	The fact that air pollution and air pollution have become a regional responsibility dates back to the sixth reform of the State. She didn't fix anything either. It is true that it is annoyance when talking about health to be unable to make a sufficient connection between subjects.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic139x.u45	Madam Minister, the press has largely relayed a statement from the working group "Coeur Europe" on the level of respiratory pollution caused by the activities of the Brussels National Airport and its impact on the mortality of residents. "Coeur Europe" looked at the emissions of fine and ultra-fine particles from aircraft flying over the capital. Its analysis is based on very recent Dutch and American scientific studies, and its conclusions are worrying: with 400 take-offs per day in the spring, more than 300,000 litres of kerosene will be burned daily. The working group adds that this figure is slightly higher than the total fuel and diesel consumption of the 190,000 vehicles used daily by the inhabitants of the Brussels Region. As a result, aircraft are more polluting than cars. Brussels National is therefore not only the most harmful European airport for residents, but it is also the main source of respiratory pollution in Brussels and in the neighbouring communes of Flemish Brabant. While noise pollution primarily affects people directly overflying, respiratory pollution has a negative impact on the general population of Brussels and its environs. In this regard, I would like to point out that, last summer, engineers recruited on behalf of the Tervuren-Montgomery Neighbourhood Committee compared noise pollution at the top 30 European airports and delivered a verdict without appeal. For example, Zaventem Airport is by far the airport with the largest number of people taking off. In terms of mobility, but this is not the subject of this question, only a partial relocation of the activities of the Brussels National airport would significantly mitigate the health impacts, as has already been done in Athens, Berlin, Gatwick, Milan, Munich, Oslo, Paris, Rome, Stansted and Stockholm. Since the situation is what it is, in terms of public health, Madam Minister, can you let me know if you have read these studies? Secondly, will there be a consultation with the Minister for Mobility on the consequences of the Brussels overflight on the health of residents and the hundreds of thousands of commuters who are subjected to these pollutions on a daily basis? Will the health of these citizens, in accordance with Article 23 of the Constitution, which enshrines the right to the protection of a healthy environment, be a relevant criterion in the ongoing negotiations on the Brussels overflight? Finally, will any arrangements be made to monitor the development of respiratory problems of exposed persons, depending on the evolution of airport activity?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic139x.u46	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this question has already been asked in plenary.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic139x.u47	Actually, it wasn't laid.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic139x.u48	Indeed, it had been introduced in plenary session, but the president, not seeing Mr. Maingain, felt that it could not be asked at the time he called me to respond. This one comes back to me today, which is perfect. Be aware that the issue of air quality, and in particular pollution by fine particles, is one of my major concerns. This pollution is obviously harmful not only to the health of our people, but also to our economy. I have read the press release you are referring to and the White Paper you are referring to. I am well aware of the environmental problem posed by the Brussels National Airport and the issue of air pollution must be taken into account in operating conditions, since Article 23 of the Constitution applies of course. However, under the special State Reform Act of 8 August 1980, which you are also familiar with, most of the environmental policy is the responsibility of the Regions. This is the case for controlling the risks associated with the presence of the airport and for measuring the exposure of the population due to the presence of the airport. "Considering the division of powers between the Regions and the Federal Authority, with regard to airport operations, safety, airspace management and the environmental impact of air traffic, the Government will conclude cooperation agreements with the Regions." I refer you for this to my colleague Minister for Mobility, Mrs Jacqueline Galant. And I'm just quoting a passage from the government agreement by telling you what I just told you. However, I would like to point out that the government will rely on objective and scientifically proven facts in this case. And I would add that the study echoed in the press is based on results obtained in relation to another airport, namely Schiphol in the Netherlands. For my part, given the international nature of air traffic, I believe that it is mainly through a pooling of the emission reduction effort at European level that we can contain this pollution. I will therefore continue to plead with the European Union to further strengthen the environmental standards applicable to the air transport sector. Belgium is also one of the Member States of the Union which has reacted, defended and finally managed to maintain the Clean Air package in the new Commission's work programme.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic139x.u49	Thank you, minister, for that explanation. I am not really satisfied because, again, as with the previous point, we are going to repackage this towards the regions. I note that when we are flying by planes, especially since we are today at the heart of a problem with the return of planes to part of Brussels and the surrounding communes, this is a matter for the federal government. I think that Minister Galant really needs to take this issue to heart as a matter of urgency, because what I fear is that we are moving from one situation to another. People who were flying over will not be, others will be. We can also talk about the problem of noise nuisances at night. You can't imagine what it's like to sleep under planes. However, we did not go to live there afterward; traffic has increased, everything has changed. There are things to change in the distribution of flights. We should be able to negotiate to unload this international airport that takes everything, from low cost to large carriers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic139x.u50	That'll be in the Infrastructure Commission.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic139x.u51	Yes, so I still allow myself to recall all of this, because it's really important.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic139x.u52	I am well aware of this and that is why I say that there are cooperation agreements already concluded or which must be concluded between the federal authority and the Regions. I am not saying it by chance, I am saying it by talking about the operation of the airport, its safety, the management of air space, the environmental impact of air traffic, so all the issues that you raise through your legitimate concerns.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic139x.u53	And they have health consequences, as you say.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic139x.u54	It's urgent, thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic139x.u55	Mr. Van der Maelen is not present. Ms Jadin asked that her question No 3457 be turned into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic139x.u56	By this question, my objective was to continue the exchange that we had in plenary session. If I asked you then, it was because we were in the FLEGT week that brought together the European Commission, the representatives of the administration, the ministries and the NGOs active in the environment to deal with the mechanisms put in place to combat exploitation, trade, the import of illegal timber between the European Union and other countries or continents. With a view to relieving our importers who have to check whether those from whom they buy wood, sometimes at the end of the world, comply with different legislation and certification rules, but also to simplify negotiations and the signing of agreements between the European Commission and these timber-producing countries, important elements are put on the table in order to improve this control. Today, each country must negotiate with these exporters and reach an agreement with the European Commission. If we take the example of the ASEAN countries, it is apparently only Indonesia that has managed to conclude such an agreement. Could we not bring to the European Union a proposal to bring the countries together by continent or by half-continent in order to improve the tools and the monitoring bodies? The latter must be independent of the authorities, especially in countries such as Burma, where the Minister of Trade is also a timber operator, which means that he certifies every time he is asked to do so. It would be interesting to bring countries together in coherent blocs that negotiate and sign agreements with the European Commission, idem for African and South American countries. This would apply in particular to countries that have more difficulty in having governance and regulatory tools. This would, of course, require effective control tools and bodies that can have the freedom and the opportunity to monitor compliance with certification rules and criteria on the spot.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic139x.u57	I will respond to the point that you raise to advance our thinking on this subject. My administration was well aware of the work of the FLEGT week, the aim of which was to take stock of the situation and to keep me informed of the directions and action plans, if any. I'm going to get a comeback about that. Secondly, this week's objective was to provide an overview of the implementation of FLEGT among stakeholders. Synergies with other policies have also been identified and, among the conclusions of this week, we can mention the following elements: strengthening links with the climate agenda, promoting voluntary partnership agreements, granting FLEGT licences, strengthening forest controls and certification, and mobilising finance and investment so that all this can work. FLEGT Week is not the place to hold a political debate. Rather, these preparatory discussions take place within the FLEGT Committee, which brings together the different competent authorities of the Member States. In this context, Belgium is working to strengthen cooperation between Member States of the European Union and also with exporting countries. Before making proposals for the recasting of the system, Belgium tries, within its means, to properly implement the existing instruments and to identify their weaknesses. While the concept of due diligence is clear, its implementation is much more complex on the ground. As far as documentary aspects are concerned, we still have difficulties in evaluating on the basis of a documentary file, in languages that we do not always know, if the wood entering the market has complied with all the legal requirements of the country of origin and/or if any documents have been altered or falsified. With regard to aspects relating to risk analysis, with the exception of obvious and proven cases of fraud or corruption, this assessment is unfortunately often subjective. The future is certainly in the development and implementation of voluntary partnership agreements whereby exporting countries commit themselves to the legality of timber exported through, for example, a licensing system. As far as your last question is concerned, with regard to the proposal made by the ASEAN countries to come together to implement the FLEGT rather than to continue as at present country by country in front of the European Commission, we can only support this kind of initiative because it creates a regional dynamic and allows to cover larger forest areas.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic139x.u58	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. To say that the future depends on voluntary agreements between exporting countries and the European Commission, of course, but this could possibly work if we were certain that we had bodies that ensured this. Indeed, we are never certain that certification will have been granted on the basis of exact criteria and a voluntary agreement is based only on the goodwill of an exporting country and on the willingness to organise control. What I found interesting in the ASEAN proposal was this intention of collaboration among countries. In my mind, it is feasible, as long as we are ultimately funding control bodies that are interlocutors and that it is no longer the authorities themselves that certify the timber. As you say, the assessment is already difficult with the countries that export and for the importers of wood, it is obviously impossible to ensure that certified wood is actually certified on the basis of the criteria imposed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic139x.u59	We had the problem in Belgium. You know that. We are very attentive to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic139x.u60	This topic will continue to be a topical issue, in particular in relation to climate policy, as deforestation is quite contrary to the fight against CO2 emissions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic139x.u61	Mrs Gerkens, I now go to the Federal Council for Sustainable Development press award and I will mention this argument, namely that excessive deforestation in some places causes climate change. Vanuatu is an example we have seen recently.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic139x.u62	Minister, thank you for coming to answer our questions.
