ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic296x.u1	Mr President, Minister, AFCN (Federal Nuclear Control Agency) communicated on 1 October on the safety conditions it issues for the operation of the Doel 1 and 2 power plants following its analysis of the file submitted by Electrabel with a view to extending their service life. By validating the Electrabel Action Plan, the Federal Agency has also validated the list of actions and work to be carried out and their budgeting. Can you tell us what the estimated cost of all validated actions and works (including studies) is and provide us with a copy of the list of these works? What actions were considered priority in the 2012 version of the file and are no longer priority? We remain particularly surprised by the calendar validated by the AFCN. While in Tihange, for the extension of plant 1, three years were required, in Doel, all priority actions could be carried out in less than three months. How do you interpret this huge difference in calendar? In addition, during the parliamentary debates on the bill, you assured us that the issue of the need for an environmental impact assessment and public consultation prior to the extension would be addressed by the PSAN. However, the Agency's spokesperson stated that the PSAN refused to position itself on the issue, considering that it was not within its jurisdiction. Do you find this reasoning correct? What if it is not the AFCN, who decides on this part? You or Minister Marghem? Finally, I have one specific question of information: what is the volume of additional nuclear waste taken into account by the AFCN in connection with this ten-year extension?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic296x.u2	Mr President, Mr Nollet, the action plan proposed by Electrabel is fully described in the synthesis report transmitted by the operator in April 2015. This report is available on the website of the Federal Agency for Nuclear Control. The cost of carrying out the planned work is a question to which only Electrabel is able to answer. AFCN is concerned only with the safety of nuclear power plants, not their accounting. The concept of priority action is not used as such in the 2012 LTO Action Plan. The programme provided for a five-year period for the completion of LTO-related work. The schedule has been set taking into account the complexity of some changes, the availability of equipment and qualified personnel and the need to prepare these changes conscientiously. The Action Plan as a whole was designed as a multi-year continuous improvement programme. In 2015, the operator submitted a new action plan to extend the lifespan of Doel 1 and Doel 2. This plan defined priority actions as actions necessary to continue to ensure the proper functioning of safety-related systems, structures and components from the very first day of long-term operation of power plants. AFCN will ensure that these priority actions have been completed before the Doel 1 and Doel 2 reactors can be restarted. The operator has, moreover, already started in early 2015, the preparation of its priority actions, which gives him much more time than the three months you have just mentioned.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic296x.u3	Other non-priority actions fall under the continuous improvement denominator and will be carried out according to a timetable set up until 2019. As in 2012, the operator therefore has five years to implement its ongoing facility improvement program. The Federal Nuclear Control Agency will carefully monitor compliance with this timetable. The authorisation to operate the plants has also been strengthened in this respect. With regard to the need for an environmental impact assessment, the AFCN is not competent to comment on the need for such a study as part of the amendment to the Nuclear Exit Act. The AFCN can only decide on the need to conduct an environmental impact assessment following the completion of the work related to the LTO. After analysing the radiological aspects, AFCN concluded that the LTO action plan for Doel 1 and Doel 2 should not be the subject of an environmental study on the grounds that the actions did not have a negative radiological impact and did not result in a significant change in the current radiological impact on the environment. AFCN conducted its analysis on the basis of an IEA screening, in accordance with the relevant European directives. Radioactive waste generation is one of the potential environmental impacts that have been examined. The quantity of radioactive waste to be produced annually during long-term operation will not differ from the quantity of radioactive waste previously produced on an annual basis. The implementation of LTO-related actions and the completion of work on facilities will only generate an additional limited amount of radioactive waste. The production of radioactive waste is therefore not significantly affected by the LTO project.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic296x.u4	Minister, I have several elements of reaction. I know that the synthesis report is available and I have also documented myself on the Federal Agency's website. But it does not deliver any encrypted data. The total of 700 million is known because mentioned in the convention we received, but for Tihange 1, when it was discussed to revive it, your predecessor had provided a table of the necessary investments and details of the amounts allocated each year. I ask you to give us the same information. When I ask Minister Marghem for them, she refers me to the Federal Agency and to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic296x.u5	The AFCN is responsible for monitoring investment results against standards.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic296x.u6	That is why I did not first address the question to you. But your colleague told me to speak to the Agency, which gives the green light; which I found very strange.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic296x.u7	But no green light is given on the basis of investments, but on the basis of the results of these investments. I'm going to check if I can help you, but a priori it's not in my skills.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic296x.u8	Maybe with your colleague, you can make sure we get the same picture we received for Tihange 1. I'm not asking any more. I can also give the precedent to your collaborator so that he can see better what I expect. In addition, the deadline for work is three months plus five years. For Tihange 1, they were programmed over three years before the recovery and then for another five years. I cannot help but think that the Federal Agency has been instrumentalized by the government, Minister Marghem and her production schedule. Moreover, in an article by La Libre Belgique on Friday 2 October, AFCN's spokesman said: "We are not completely rigid. Among the actions considered as priority in the case of Tihange 1, there are some that it was not absolutely necessary to carry out before the extension". He added: "AFCN recognizes that it has adapted to the political agenda and discussions." These words are very meaningful to me who thought that you had achieved full independence from the Agency in relation to the pressures of the government or your colleague. Indeed, I note that the Agency recognizes that it is not insensitive. It goes even further as it says it has adapted to the political agenda and discussions. I have a real problem with that. That's how I get to the impact study.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic296x.u9	Mr Nollet, may I ask you to finish your speech?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic296x.u10	I come to the last point of my reply, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic296x.u11	I remind you that, normally, you have only two minutes of speaking time.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic296x.u12	You're right, Mr. President. Minister, I agree with you that, after analyzing its part, the Federal Agency felt that there was no need for an impact study. But what about the other party that was not analyzed by the Federal Agency? Is it up to you or your colleague to analyze whether or not an impact study is necessary? You say that, as far as waste is concerned, the percentage is not significant, but it still represents 25% more waste. If, in your opinion, this figure remains at the margin, I think I can say that we do not fully agree on your conception of a margin. In any case, the question arises as to who is competent for the balance, my objective being whether or not an impact study is necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic296x.u13	Mr President, Minister, what is nicely referred to as "1 day without" or "1 day without". This problem of burglary is an ongoing challenge for the police force. While the figures for the first half of 2015 for burglary in our country are positive compared to those for 2014, burglary remains the most important form of crime in our country. Only one fact remains a fact of too much, we will never call it back enough. In 2014, 71,753 robberies were registered by the police. The overall figure is therefore important and, although the trend is encouraging, there is a need to strengthen the means to stem this phenomenon, both for individuals and for businesses. Minister, in 2014, released an evaluation report on the Action Day. Based on this assessment, have any adjustments or improvements been made to the 2015 edition? In other words, has the 2015 edition undergone significant changes from the 2014 edition, for example, the fiscal framework, federal coordination, partnerships, etc.- Is that what you're saying? With regard to these partnerships, are specific directives given to police services to foster local preventive partnerships (LPPs). Finally, with regard to equipment and systems for the protection and prevention of burglary, are new incentives, whether they be advice or financial measures for the installation of techno-prevention equipment, provided by the federal government, particularly for companies?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic296x.u14	Ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the evaluations carried out on the actions carried out, the administration will carry out an impact assessment in the course of this Parliament. This will assess the activities carried out in the context of the prevention of burglaries. It should also be noted that the 2015 event "1 day without" will be evaluated. The administration has planned an audit of the actions carried out. The results will of course be planned for 2016. Also in the area of evaluation, it should be noted that the advice of the flight prevention counsellors undoubtedly enables citizens and independents to know accurately what prevention measures are most effective for their homes or professional premises. Councillors are available free of charge to citizens and independents. They can get in touch directly with their advisor via the web site advisersenpreventionvol.be. In this regard, it should be noted that, according to a study conducted by KUL in 2007, more than 90 per cent of citizens are satisfied with the advice received. Finally, in order to know the actions most often carried out, we can mention the addition of locks, effective locks and advice aimed at limiting the number of valuable objects in the dwelling. Social control also plays an essential role. In this context, the action day "1 day without" certainly promotes contact between neighbours in order to increase social vigilance. With regard to local preventive partnerships (LPPs), they are encouraged within neighbourhoods and are particularly in constant development in Wallonia. Flight Prevention Advisors and other prevention partners are kept regularly informed of the importance of PLPs, their establishment and follow-up. PLPs play an essential role in the "1 day without" action, where they develop numerous awareness-raising initiatives. As regards the approval of alarm equipment, the authorities do not approve them. They're on over-the-counter. An alarm system makes sense only if other precautions are taken to prevent burglary. There are many organizational and architectural measures that allow better security against burglary - a mechanical hardware for example. This device does not cost as much as an alarm system and is yet effective. The authorities shall only regulate the installation and use of alarm systems in order to prevent false alarm alerts. False alarms overload emergency numbers 101 and 112 and result in unnecessary police intervention. The latter cannot therefore be deployed where there are real problems. This is why the policy of the authorities focuses on the connection of alarm systems to alarm stations that are very effective in filtering false alarm reports. As far as incentives are concerned, theft prevention advice is constantly being promoted throughout our communications to citizens and independents. However, as a result of its regionalisation, the removal of the tax reduction (except for the Brussels-Capital Region) for the security of private homes must be raised. The tax reduction for SMEs and self-employed people still exists at the federal level. Finally, through strategic safety and prevention plans, some municipalities continue to offer bonuses for the installation of safety equipment. With regard to the next edition of "1 day without", it may be noted that an application has been developed and allows you to know the degree of risk of your home, to keep an inventory of its valuables, to discover preventive advice and to contact its prevention advisor theft. Numerous films, posters, flyers and postcards complement the tools available to local authorities. The 1days sans.be and 1dagniet.be sites list all the initiatives posted by the participants. "1 day without" also holds its Facebook page and Twitter account. A selfies contest will be launched on the Facebook page in order to highlight original preventive measures. If you want to see the "1 dag niet" app, I have it on my phone.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic296x.u15	Mr President, I thank the minister for the good information.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic296x.u16	Minister, a report from Committee P has already reported a few years ago on information that our country would experience public spaces without regular police supervision. Pudially enough, we were talking about no-right zones. However, this information was not subsequently confirmed. Still recently, in the Belgian press on 8 October, there were reports of areas in the Brussels Region and Wallonia where law enforcement or other emergency intervention professionals (firemen, medical interventions, etc.) would no longer be able to act calmly and effectively for fear of acts threatening physical integrity. The municipality of Anderlecht was mentioned in particular. Attacks were also carried out on 11 October in this commune against the communal house and the police station. Are there any objective elements now from Committee P or other police authorities that would confirm the difficulties of intervention in certain parts of the Kingdom? If so, in which places? Do you confirm the existence of no-right zones? Otherwise, are so-called sensitive areas listed, for which special measures would be taken to ensure public order? Do you consider that current structures, processes and operations ensure effective collaboration between police and emergency intervention professionals such as medical professionals or firefighters?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic296x.u17	Based on the information I have obtained from Committee P, there is no recent document from Committee P relating to areas of lawlessness. On the other hand, in 2014, an interim report entitled The Monitoring Investigation into the Engagement of Police Capacity in Certain Neighbourhoods of Anderlecht and Molenbeek-Saint-Jean to Ensure the Safety of Citizens was published. This report analysed the basic features (intervention, reception and neighbourhood work) in four sensitive neighbourhoods in Brussels, with the community-oriented police function as a reference framework. These were the Cureghem and Peterbos quarters in Anderlecht and Maritime and Marie-José in Molenbeek. This report is available on the website of Committee P. For the Brussels police areas, it appears, after consulting the police administrative unit of the Information and Communication Service (SICA) of the Brussels district of the Federal Police, that there is no lawless zone in the Brussels-Capital Region. Of course, some neighbourhoods are more sensitive than others. Neighbourhood officers work there and interventions are normally carried out there. Nothing has changed in the last six months. As for your question about the non-right zones, I have not received any information for certain police areas in Wallonia. In addition to regular and/or specific field contacts between police and emergency intervention professionals (firemen, medical professions, etc.).), very precise structures and procedures are foreseen in case of crisis and disaster management via emergency and response plans. The very detailed manual Emergency planning and crisis management in Belgium is available on the website of the crisis centre in my department. It describes the disciplines involved, the security cells in place, the coordination of interventions at different levels, procedures, etc. I invite you to consult this very educational document. I would add that, following your proposal, we have expanded the "Canal" plan, which will be announced as soon as possible. We will increase the support to the local police through the Federal Police Reserve to have more agents on the streets of the Canal neighborhoods.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic296x.u18	Thank you, Minister, for this complete answer. I don't have a reply, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic296x.u19	Mr President, Minister, two black days marked the eastern Hainaut area last June, with two fatal fires in private homes that resulted in the deaths of 11 people, including 7 children. Investigations are under way to determine the origin of these fires. These disasters must lead us, I believe, to look at the fire prevention aspect and to inform the public about it. There's a lot to do. The Royal Decree of 19 December 2014 applies to rescue zones with regard to fire prevention. There is a new mission: fire prevention counselling or awareness-raising by trained fire prevention officers, i.e. fire prevention advisers (CPI). The ICCs, which receive in-depth training and retraining, are fully competent to carry out this mission and carry out visits to applicants for this type of advice. The besafe.be website provides a variety of information on the subject, as well as an online questionnaire to be completed by any person wishing to obtain a visit. Minister, since the establishment of the zones and the application of the Royal Order on Fire Prevention, are these two fatal fires isolated? Is the number of deaths or injuries in domestic fires decreasing or increasing in Belgian territory? In the latter case, what would be the causes of this sad finding? Are there local particularities or areas at risk? Are there populations at risk? What measures, if any, do you envisage to respond to them? Is the information sufficiently disseminated at the federal level or in the areas? How many requests do they receive via the website to the emergency areas? Given that this is a new mission in the relief areas, have any additional resources been provided? Should we consider offering detectors to the poorest? Finally, based on these different findings, do you intend to disseminate more information, particularly through schools, CPAS or others? Should we be responsible for relaying different information? Why not insert information messages into TV commercials?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic296x.u20	Mr Blanchart, unfortunately fires in homes are not exceptional cases. Every year, almost 10,000 houses and apartments have such a phenomenon, as I mentioned in response to Mr Koen Metsu's question No. 490 of 26 June. For most of these claims, damage remains limited to building or furniture, but there are still fifty to none dead. In 2014, at least sixty-nine people died in domestic fires. Fires at Trazegnies and Marchienne-au-Pont, which occurred during the weekend of June 19-21, are exceptional to some extent because they caused the death of at least five victims during a short period in the same area. However, I dare not speak of isolated cases. Similar tragedies have already occurred, and I cannot prevent them from happening again. However, I will ensure that the risk of domestic fire is reduced and that the resulting number of victims is reduced. For this purpose, figures on the number of victims of domestic fires are recorded in different ways by the Inland FPS. This data is collected through response reports sent by fire departments to the Federal Centre for Civil Safety Knowledge and is also collected on the basis of media messages about victims of domestic fires. Since the two recordings have recently started, only figures from the 2012 and 2013 intervention reports and those from the 2014 media are available. In 2012, there were 70 victims; in 2013, 51; in 2014, 69. The figures in the response reports apply to all fires, and not only to domestic cases. However, they are incomplete because data from some provinces are not processed or partially processed. Details of this can be found in the fire service statistical reports available at www.securitecivile.be. You will find the most recent figures. Since the relief zones only took effect on 1 January 2015 and the Royal Decree of 19 December 2014 has only just entered into force, the influence of these elements on these figures is not yet visible. Changes in the number of victims can only take place in the long term and not in a single year. The figures may vary from year to year. In a few years, I'll be able to communicate trends to you, but it's too early for now. In addition, fire service response reports relate to a limited number of data. It is therefore not possible to draw conclusions on specific risk buildings or on the social situation of residents. We can deduce from statistics that 40 to 50% of victims of domestic fires are over the age of 65. This population group is less self-sustaining in the event of a fire. The figures of the fire prevention monitor and a biennial fire safety survey carried out in collaboration with the National Association for Fire Protection and Intrusion (ANPI) show that it is precisely this target group that is least likely to think about the risk of fire in the home: 41.4% of them do not think about it at all, compared with 33.1% of the Belgian population. With the strong slogan "Every minute counts", the Interior FPS has for some time been taking action to stimulate the installation by the citizen of smoke detectors in the homes. The time factor is crucial to detect a starter fire and be able to evacuate in time. Smoke detectors play an essential role. Emergency areas play a key role in the dissemination of this message. More and more efforts are being made in the area of prevention. They are the ambassadors of fire safety in Belgium. These efforts are beginning to bear fruit. Since 2010, the Inland FPS, in collaboration with ANPI, has been asking a thousand citizens every two years about their knowledge of behaviour in relation to fire in their environment. Citizens are increasingly aware of the importance of prevention and the usefulness of smoke detectors. The actions of the Internal FPS, however, are not specifically targeted at the target groups but can be adapted locally according to the target groups. For example, emergency areas regularly collaborate with seniors' associations in organizing information evenings or in encouraging municipalities to place detectors free of charge in homes for the elderly. In the fire prevention framework note transmitted a few months ago to each rescue area, I stressed the importance of working with external partners to reach specific target groups. On the other hand, I believe it is important that all information is readily available and that the relief areas can exchange good experiences and practices. To this end, the knowledge bank was developed on www.besafe.be. It includes both the interior SPF's own equipment and the equipment that the rescue areas want to share with other areas. In addition, a meeting of the National Operational Committee, where all BPI coordinators are present, is held twice a year. At this meeting, agreements are reached on future actions, ideas are exchanged and suggestions are made. One suggestion was to develop presentations for specific target groups, such as children or seniors. They may be used by the fire prevention adviser in his or her awareness-raising activities. This item is currently under discussion. The citizen may call on fire prevention advisers (CPI). They are firefighters who give advice to the citizen on fire safety in his environment, in his language, free of charge. Through the website www.besafe.be, the citizen can request a home visit of an ICC. In 2014, only 78 citizens applied for such a visit. These applications shall be forwarded to the relevant area. We cannot say how many requests actually lead to a visit. In addition, 22 requests for an information session on fire prevention were submitted. I would add that citizens and organisations address the area directly and do not submit these requests via the Home SPF website. The areas have a general operating budget where the contribution of the federal authorities has been greatly increased. There is no specific budget for fire prevention awareness and I do not have a specific plan for this. However, the Inland FPS supports the operation of the ICC with specific equipment each year. For example, information panels were developed and distributed this year. These signs facilitate the work of the ICC in its role of informing citizens about the risks of fire in their homes, the placement of smoke detectors and the evacuation plan. A DIY box was purchased for each area. This box specifically aimed at children's fire safety can be made available to schools to work on fire safety with students. These boxes will be aired in the coming months, particularly on the next security day when the ICC will be able to recycle. Two field experts, Tim Renders and Alain Macq, are seconded half-time to the Interior FPS to support the operation of the ICC and expand its reach. With regard to your last two questions, as previously reported, the Internal FPS does not go directly to the citizens concerned. We do not distribute smoke detectors directly and do not place them ourselves. To this end, we are working first and foremost with the rescue areas and, above all, with fire prevention advisers in these areas. This is a deliberate choice because they can spread the message of fire safety with great conviction. Fire services face the consequences of the fire every day. Citizens often think that a fire will not break out at home. Firefighters often have more experience and can provide practical and useful information in this area. This ambassador of fire safety thus inspires a great confidence in the citizen. The fire safety strategy and message are aligned with the various areas in the National Operational Steering Committee and with various partners, including the burn associations and insurers. The concrete actions and content are mainly ensured by the areas. I wish to let them work independently and at most guide and inform them. That is why I have invited the emergency areas in the framework note 'Fire safety' to collaborate with the external partners and the associations concerned. Various areas are already collaborating with CPAS and almost all areas have already offered an offer to schools. If necessary, I will also support the fire safety message through advertisements in the media. One of my priorities is to spread the content of the message through the media. In the past year, the topic has been discussed several times in television newspapers and news programmes, but also in the press and newsletters.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic296x.u21	Thank you for your very comprehensive answer, Minister. This is a major project to be implemented, because it is true that if the statistical data do not allow enough hindrance, we can still try to anticipate the problems and work on the target groups as much as possible. Of all the actions you have mentioned, a number are already in place in the areas or locally, while others need to be. As you mentioned on the last question, I do think it would really be useful to advertise in the media in relation to that. This would make it possible to raise the awareness of as many people as possible in the field, including the target audiences.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic296x.u22	Question No 7257 by Mr. Van Hees is withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic296x.u23	Mr. President, Minister, incidents have multiplied in our old power stations. This time, Doel 1, however, stopped, was hit by an explosion followed by a fire on one of its transformers. Given the time of the explosion (around 23 hours), it can be excluded that this is a maintenance problem. The Public Prosecutor's Office has ruled out any act of malice. So this is probably another failure. My first question is a little peripheral and is the following: Is it normal that the fire department was on site only 20 minutes after the fire started? This delay seems to me to be particularly problematic. Can you tell me what was the age of the transformer concerned? In what year was it put into service? What about this date of commissioning for the other Doel power plant transformers? How many reserve transformers does the operator have? Do you confirm that it takes 12 to 24 months to order and replace a transformer if there are no transformers in storage? This incident had only minor consequences in Belgium, contrary to what happened in a similar situation in 2007 in Germany at the Krümmel power station. As a result of this incident and complications during the annual revisions, the plant was shut down and no longer produced electricity for two years. As soon as it came back into service, new incidents occurred in the transformers, resulting in the replacement of two of them. This means that the role of processors cannot be neglected or minimized. So my final question is whether the Doel 1 and 2 action plan plans to replace all the transformers prior to extending the life of the reactors? I turn directly to my second question, which supplements the first, following the hearing of Electrabel in the nuclear safety sub-committee. In its response to the parliamentary questions raised following the above-mentioned meeting, which was specifically devoted to the explosion and fire that hit Doel 1 on 31 October 2015, Electrabel states that new transformers are ordered for Tihange 1. I would like to know when these new transformers will be delivered. Electrabel's response also states that with regard to transformers used for the start-up or for Doel and Tihange auxiliaries, "for most of them, a reserve is provided." Which transformers do not currently have any reserves (type, number, plant and reactor). Finally, in its response received on 19 November, Electrabel states that the causes of the incident were not yet known. I hope that today, a month later, we know more. So, what has happened since then?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic296x.u24	Dear colleague, on the night of October 31, 2015, an explosion followed by a fire occurred at the height of one of Doel 1's three main transformers. At the time of the explosion, both Doel 1 and Doel 2 reactors had been out of service for eight months and one week, respectively. However, even when the reactors are stationary, some devices continue to operate. Thus, some cooling circuits were in operation to evacuate the residual heat from the core of the Doel 1 and Doel 2 reactor. These systems are powered by the external power grid by transformers. As a result of the loss of the Doel 1 main transformer, the devices of these reactors had to be temporarily coupled to the diesel generator for their supply. As soon as the cooling circuits were connected to the diesel generator, this event did not have an impact on nuclear safety. Had the fire and explosion occurred when the nuclear power plant was operating at full power, their consequences would have been very similar. A loss of external power supply to the backup circuits results in automatic shutdown of the reactor and immediate connection of the backup circuits to the diesel generator. As mentioned in the letter of 9 November 2015 from the Federal Nuclear Control Agency (AFCN) to the Nuclear Safety Sub-Committee, inspectors from the AFCN visited the site. From the information obtained for the AFCN during this inspection, it appears that the fire was caused by a short circuit inside the transformer. The technical cause of the internal short circuit still needs to be specified. Since the construction of the Doel 1 and Doel 2 transformers dates back to 1971 and 1972, ageing is a possible cause. This type of transformer must be ordered one to two years in advance. As these transformers are necessary to inject the energy generated on the grid and to supply electricity to the internal backup circuits, Electrabel has a spare copy for almost every type of transformer. These transformers are adequately maintained and inspected. The AFCN inspectors were able to see this on the basis of information obtained in the aftermath of the November 2, 2015 inspection. Transformer maintenance programs are also verified by the nuclear insurer. To the extent that the primary transformers are not directly impacting nuclear safety components, they are not part of the action plan that has been approved by AFCN as part of the long-term operation project of Doel 1 and Doel 2. We do not have any details on the stock of transformers available to Electrabel, since this data does not concern nuclear safety. Following its inspection on November 2, 2015, the AFCN was informed, however, that the primary transformers would be replaced as part of the LTO project because of their importance to the reliability of electrical production. As far as Doel 1 is concerned, this replacement will take place before the next restart. Qualified components and devices that are important for safety are obviously properly inspected and their replacement, if necessary, is part of the action plan for the long-term operation of Doel 1 and Doel 2. The correct implementation of this plan is listed on the list of priority actions to be finalized prior to restarting, in accordance with the amended authorisation of Doel 1 and Doel 2.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic296x.u25	Minister, I thank you for your reply, which is, as very often with you, as complete as possible. Nevertheless, I have three problems. First, there is no explanation of the 20-minute response time of the fire department. I'm concerned about that, but we'll see what you can bring in at a later date. For a nuclear power plant, this is still not the ideal, even though, as you said, the emergency generator has started. Secondly, the precise technical cause is still unknown. It's, to say the least, a few weeks after the facts. Thirdly, you have taken up Electrabel's answer, namely that for the most part a reservation is foreseen. But I just wanted to know how much there is no reserve. You say that the detail on the stock is not about nuclear safety but about Electrabel. I can understand that. The problem is, when you ask Electrabel, they say "for most of them." We turn around a little bit to know the exact situation. On the other hand, you have confirmed important information: it takes between 12 and 24 months to order. It's huge. If there are ever reactors that don't have a reserve transformer, if there is still to be a fire – and one of the possible causes you're quoting, it's old-fashioned – this could pose other problems. I regret that we do not have the answer to the number and type of reactors that do not have a reserve transformer, given not the dangerousness, but the consequences of a possible new fire due to oldness, even if the cause is not yet known. I will probably come back to this matter later.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic296x.u26	Mr President, Minister, in my question No 7047, I wanted to come back with you to the comments made by Mr Bens at the meeting of the nuclear safety subcommittee on 22 October. At this meeting, we discussed in particular the safety conditions imposed by the AFCN for the operation of the Doel 1 and Doel 2 plants and the need for (or not) an environmental impact assessment and public consultation. On that occasion, Mr. Bens stated that the legal study commissioned by AFCN and carried out by a law firm was commissioned by Parliament. This is in clear contradiction to what Mr. Bens had said in the past. My main question was how we should interpret this factual lie. The facts speak for themselves: there are two different points of view in two parliamentary reports. I turned this question into a written question and in the answer you sent me, you recall the chronology of events. In doing so, you confirm that, contrary to what Mr Bens claimed in the subcommittee on 22 October, the study was not launched at the request of the parliamentarians. Mr Minister, I would therefore like to ask you my main question. How do we interpret Mr. Bens' lie? The newspaper L'Écho also tells us, in its October 22 edition, that Mr Bens, before his board of directors, would have agreed to the conclusion of this legal opinion. Do you confirm this information? If that is the case, how should we interpret it in the light of Mr Bens' silence when this question was addressed to him at the meeting of the nuclear safety subcommittee on 22 October?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic296x.u27	Mr Nollet, the legal analysis was indeed commissioned by AFCN and not by Parliament. Mr Bens explained to me that at the time you reopened the debate on this legal opinion, his memory was somewhat flimsy. As this legal opinion dates back many months, Mr. Bens did not remember exactly the course of events. It's human, it happens. He certainly didn't intend to lie. The AFCN legal note was discussed for the first time at a hearing of Jan Bens on 24 March 2015. This hearing was organised in the framework of the parliamentary debates that preceded the vote on the law of 28 June 2015. In response to a question concerning the opinion of the Council of State on the authorisation regime, Mr. Bens stated that this was the subject of a legal analysis within the Agency, for which he had commissioned a legal note from a law firm. Parliamentarians have explicitly requested that they be aware of the PSAN's legal analysis. The latter therefore provided a copy of the legal note of the law firm which was originally intended for internal use. The content of this legal note, which goes beyond the powers of AFCN, relates to the discussions that were held prior to the adoption of the Act of 28 June 2015 and that ended when the Act was approved by Parliament. From then on, the above-mentioned law provided the new legal framework for all parties concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic296x.u28	Mr. Chairman, Mr.Minister, I take note of the elements of your response to Mr. Bens's lie, and I am pleased to have finally had an explanation on this subject. Error is human. This is about a memory problem. Minister, your answer is a reflection of your frankness to Parliament. We found ourselves facing a problem and you recognized it, without turning around the pot, which I appreciate. Having said that, I did not understand whether Mr Bens agreed with the conclusion of this legal opinion or whether his opinion has evolved, after the legal analysis and on the basis of possible other elements. Did he initially agree with the conclusion of the said legal opinion and then evolve or did he never agree with that conclusion?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic296x.u29	Mr Nollet, I suggest that you ask Mr Bens this question because it is difficult for me to answer in his place. This is indeed a personal answer. You will have the opportunity to ask him the question at a future hearing.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic296x.u30	Minister, I understand your point of view and I will follow your advice. But I'm not gonna wait for his next audition. I'll send him an e-mail and see what answer he'll give me. I'll come back to you if there's a problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic296x.u31	Mr President, Minister, at the committee on 21 October, we had an interesting exchange of views on the timing of the response and publication of information, following an incident that had occurred. On this occasion, you said that you would agree to instruct the Agency to publish the information on its website within two to three days of the incident, even if this publication is updated if there is more detail. We know that this is not possible in all cases, but the indication was that. During this exchange, your collaborator told you that messages are still posted two or three days after the incident. I went back to the site and did a time check. Since I tabled my question, other incidents may have occurred. Of the last 30 incidents (known dates), only two were reported on the Federal Agency site with a delay of less than or equal to three days. Conversely, it is not uncommon to see a delay exceeding 20 days. The level 2 incident that occurred on November 17, 2014 was only published 74 days later. That's a bad kind of thing! That is to say, the need to transmit this prompt publication directive to the AFCN is justified. Minister, have you ever had the opportunity to pass the message on to AFCN? I would also like to come back with you to another issue related to AFCN's communication and transparency policy. The incident on the Doel site on 31 October 2015, although classified as INES 0, was the subject of a communication from the Federal Agency and a publication on its site, which seems to me positive and necessary. However, the FANC does not normally publish incidents classified as INES 0. What surprises me and causes me a problem is the justification used by the AFCN. I quote: "AFCN has decided to derogate from this rule, given the considerable attention that has been paid to this event". Minister, would there be a need for local residents and/or associations and/or the media to make a lot of noise in order for the PSAN to disseminate information on its site? Minister, take it with humour, you know me! What a formidable but problematic reversal of roles! Because information circulates outside and makes noise, the AFCN informs on its site. I know that we are in the country of surrealism, but frankly!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic296x.u32	Mr. Chair, Mr. Nollet, it is AFCN's policy to actively communicate only incidents classified on the INES scale at level 1 or above. As a result, the AFCN does not usually report on level 0 events on the INES scale because they have no nuclear safety impact. This practice is in line with IAEA guidance on the communication of INES-listed events. The AFCN may, however, make an exception to this principle, when an event is accompanied, for example, by a significant noise or unusual release of smoke that may cause local residents concern. This has nothing to do with the noise that the residents make, but with the noise that the incident produces. It's a big difference. It is in this sense that we must understand the terms 'considerable attention'. The event of 31 October did not have the slightest impact on nuclear safety, but the explosion and fire that occurred had a significant impact in terms of visibility. For this reason, AFCN considered that this visibility justified an exception to the rule and an explanation to be published on its website. The AFCN has heard the request for faster information but points out that it only provides accurate and verified information, which can sometimes take a few days. The daily information of residents around the facilities about what is happening in the facilities remains the operator's responsibility.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic296x.u33	First of all, I thank the minister. Once again, he made clear the term "noise" that was used. I understood it in the sense of people's reaction afterwards. No, it's the sound you can hear. And indeed, in these cases, it is better to inform quickly. As far as the response time is concerned, I hear that you have sent the message and I thank you for that. I hear the concern of the Federal Agency that it only disseminates information when it is safe. I have no problem with that, except that we can have some of the information that is safe. In the future, it seems to me necessary that the information disseminated should be fair but not necessarily complete. Of course, all proportions are kept in proportion to all the events we have experienced in recent weeks. But you know how important it is to give information, even if you didn't have all the information. And the government did. Regularly. Every two-three days, we had formal, formal communication from the government. Here, the situation is, of course, not the same, but the people around them need information from the first few days. Here it took 74 days after a Level 2 incident! It's a matter of concern. We are no longer in this context today. I'll see with your firm or administration that we tend to the two-three days and we'll take stock if it's necessary. There may always be exceptions of course. If this is not necessary, I will no longer bother you with this, considering that you have sent the message on which we agreed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic296x.u34	Various information flows following various movements decided and carried out recently or envisaged in the near future on the Tihange site. These movements of management personnel could undermine the continuity of management and thus also the safety of the site. Minister, can you inform us in detail about these movements envisaged, decided upon or already carried out by the operator of the Tihange power plant? What is their justification? Can you also reassure us of their potential impact on the management of the plant and its safety?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic296x.u35	AFCN and Bel V were informed by the Tihange nuclear power plant of its intention to make changes in its organization. These changes initiated by Electrabel to strengthen the teams working at the corporate level were probably precipitated after the events that led to the writing of an AFCN decree on 3 August 2015 and the writing of an initial pro justtia. The changes decided upon were then described, in particular for the staff of the plant, AFCN and Bel V. These changes will be carried out in a gradual manner to maintain consistency and balance in the management team of the plant. An overlap is planned between those who will acquire new functions and those who will be redirected to other activities. In addition, AFCN and Bel V are currently conducting the necessary checks to ensure that those who will be in new positions will have all the necessary qualifications and experience at the time of their entry into office. In particular, the new head of the physical control department will have to obtain his or her approval from the AFCN in order to be able to perform his or her new duties. Finally, more broadly, AFCN and Bel V are monitoring activities more intensively, following the events leading up to the actions undertaken on 3 August 2015.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic296x.u36	Would it be possible to obtain a copy of the communication made to all staff? [[Minister's assessment]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic296x.u37	Minister, on November 12, 2015, EDF announced to the Nuclear Safety Authority an event related to the holding of the 900 MW nuclear reactor intermediate cooling circuit in the event of an earthquake. The RRI system ensures the cooling of certain equipment and premises required in the event of an accident. On 900 MW reactors, this circuit appears to include a common two-reactor part. The event revealed a deviation in compliance that affected pipe support in the common part of the RRI circuit. In the event of an earthquake, the loss of the cooling function provided by this circuit is likely to lead to a breach of the reactor's primary circuit following the degradation of the primary pump joints and, on the other hand, the loss of cooling of the spent fuel deactivation pool, which can lead to very serious consequences. EDF has embarked on a programme to re-conform the RRI circuit which requires, upstream, the resumption of studies of the dimensioning of the anchorages and supports of several components. Is the design carried out by Tractebel and others on each of the Belgian reactors similar or different from that carried out in France? What's the difference? As a result of the disclosure of this information, has the AFCN initiated a process to verify what is happening in our plants? What is the timetable for this? What conclusions, if any, have already been reached?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic296x.u38	AFCN and Bel V, which are the Belgian nuclear safety authority, have a management process, taking into account experience. In concrete terms, anomalies or incidents that occur in foreign nuclear facilities are examined to identify the lessons to be learned for our Belgian facilities. The AFCN and Bel V are therefore aware of the anomaly announced by EDF. A verification is under way to determine whether this case specific to France is likely to concern Belgian power plants. If that were the case, an in-depth analysis would take place. On the basis of the results of this analysis, it would then be decided whether corrective measures were necessary. The information in our possession shows that the design of cooling systems at Belgian nuclear power plants differs from that of the French power plants concerned. Moreover, this anomaly concerns the common two-power plant part, which reduces the possibility that this information may be relevant to Belgian power plants. However, the information currently available is not sufficient to make a final decision on its relevance to Belgian power plants, which is why AFCN requested further information from ASN, its French counterpart. This additional information is still to be received and analysed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic296x.u39	Minister, thank you very much for your very comprehensive answer. I have had the same reflex as you: since these are power plants with common parts, this should not affect ours, except for Doel 1 and 2. In these plants, the rescue and security services work together since these sites had been imagined as in submarines where facilities are shared. I see that the Federal Agency is going to conduct an audit and that the audit is under way. Do you have any idea how much time it takes for this work? That will prevent me from asking you the question at a later stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic296x.u40	It's not our job. We asked France for the information. It is therefore difficult to give you a precise time frame. The AFCN is following the file. We must encourage the French to provide us with this data.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic296x.u41	One solution would be to ask the Federal Agency to inform us. I will then wait for the information. Otherwise, I should ask the same question every two months.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic296x.u42	We may ask the Federal Agency to inform us as soon as it has achieved a final result.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic296x.u43	That'll be one less question!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic296x.u44	That's right: one less question, but one more answer!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic296x.u45	It's not good for my statistics, but it's good for you!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic296x.u46	Mr Minister, cracks have been discovered on graphite bricks from the heart of a nuclear reactor at the Hunterston B power plant in Scotland. These cracks appear to be related to the age of the reactor, which calls into question its long service life. Unfortunately, the problem is common and common to all advanced gas-cooled reactors managed in the United Kingdom by EDF Energy. When the bricks crack or deform, there may be problems in inserting the control bars that allow the reactor to shut down in the event of an emergency. In addition, bricks not only crack over time, but also lose part of their mass, which threatens the stability of the brick pile, a problem that has been reported in the Dungeness B reactor in Kent. Is it possible, Minister, in this kind of situation, to detect all cracks and replace cracked bricks? It also appears that the regulator, rather than imposing prohibitions, has agreed to increase the maximum allowable loss. It would increase from a maximum allowable loss of 6.2 per cent to 11 per cent, which speaks volumes about the independence of those who make such decisions. Indeed, in case of difficulty, they raise the thresholds to circumvent the problem. Of course, we know that water reactors, such as those operating in Belgium, do not have such piles of graphite. However, my reflection aims to point to the fact that these cracks obviously evolve in their swelling as a result of the irradiation and the age of the plants. Minister, apart from the tanks, are other elements of the plants also subject to cracks that evolve according to their age and/or irradiation? I was very precise to distinguish things well because we are not in a similar situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic296x.u47	It is not for the Belgian authorities to comment on the situation of power plants abroad, especially if there is no connection with the situation of Belgian power plants. The problem encountered in Scotland is typical for graphite/gas reactors which exist only in the United Kingdom. In pressurized water reactors, such as those in Belgium, there is no graphite pile. As for the ageing under irradiation, this is one of the aspects of the well-known general problem of the ageing of nuclear installations affecting all installations in the world. Since this ageing is induced by continuous material degradation and can ultimately impact the safety level of the facility, its monitoring is carried out on a continuous basis, both by the operator and by the safety authority of each country. To this end, in-service maintenance and inspection programmes have been put in place to detect and monitor the degradation of all equipment. This makes it possible to implement the appropriate means of repair of these equipment sufficiently early. In the context of the long term operation of Belgian reactors, specific programmes for the management of this ageing are provided for in the action plan associated with the project.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic296x.u48	Mr President, I have no reply but, as this is my last question this year, I would like to thank the minister and his colleagues for the quality of the answers I have received. This is part of a good parliamentary work. Mr Minister, this can be an example not only for next year but also for your colleagues!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic296x.u49	Mr Nollet, thank you. I particularly appreciate your comment!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic296x.u50	Mr President, I would like to add my colleague Nollet's compliments to the Minister of the Interior. Minister, situations requiring emergency response require continuous method, coordination and updating. Apart from critical infrastructure, the entire national territory must be covered by appropriate and multidisciplinary planning of our response services. The last few weeks have faced us with new developments and new threats. Minister, if it appears that the government, particularly the National Security Council, has acted diligently and responsibly, I would nevertheless like to ask you the following questions. Have the legal frameworks for national emergency management recently been evaluated? If so, what are the conclusions and recommendations? Have crisis relief and first aid facilities been evaluated recently, particularly in large cities? When was the last evaluation of our country's hospital crisis plan, particularly in the Brussels Region? When was the last exercise aimed at a crisis situation involving all levels of intervention carried out? Are your services informed of the provincial exercises conducted? Have they participated and been able to analyze the results of the last emergency exercises? What is, to date, the capacity to provide guidance and support for intervention services?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic296x.u51	Mr. Pivin, national exercises are regularly organised, in which emergency plans are tested and evaluated and, if necessary, completed and adapted according to guiding principles or modifications. This is in particular the case of the national nuclear emergency plan, which is being revised on the basis of the conclusions of the most recent exercises. On the basis of the electricity exercises held in September and October, the Electricity Plan and more specifically the crisis structures will be adapted. It is up to each discipline to evaluate its functioning. It is tested in multidisciplinary and multidisciplinary exercises. As far as the medical aspects are concerned, I refer you to my colleague from Public Health. The last national exercise took place at the end of October. It was a national nuclear exercise on the Mol-Dessel site. My services are aware of the exercises organized by the federal services of governors. My services regularly participate as an assessor or observer in these provincial exercises and therefore also collaborate in debriefings. Finally, your last question is the responsibility of the Minister of Public Health.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic296x.u52	Minister, thank you. I will relay these questions to the Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic296x.u53	Mr President, Minister, you are aware of the problem of police services in Brussels Airport. In fact, at the beginning of this year, you were meeting the police officers concerned who are doing a vital, if not vital, job in terms of surveillance and control. The tragedy of the Russian plane in Egypt demonstrates the priority of this presence, both in terms of passenger control as well as the management of logistics and equipment in the infrastructure and transfer on board the aircraft. In recent months, the zeal of the police officers assigned to these tasks has been met with strikes. The shortage of staff seems to have been proven since, if I recall correctly, you yourself announced last April that an additional 35 police officers would be assigned to this service. At a time when the creation of a national NRP has been decided and the European Parliament is moving ahead with international registration, it is essential, for the safety of all and for the image of our country, to guarantee effective and effective control at Zaventem airport. Since the filing of my question, I have learned from the press that some staff members have been removed from their access badges. This information is likely to demonstrate the vigilance of intelligence work. Moreover, it is proof that these are very concrete things. Minister, can you confirm that there is still a shortage of police personnel assigned to secure Brussels Airport? If so, how many full-time equivalents will be required to integrate the service? Is that 35 people? Will the NRP have an impact on the police duties of this service? Is it true that access badges for some Zaventem staff responsible for handling baggage have been removed in recent weeks? A few months ago, a report showed that electronic portals were not yet fully up to date. Can we consider today that the said portals are in perfect order of operation? Are these porticoes likely to ease the control work of the police officers allowing them to devote themselves to other surveillance tasks? What is the service of Zaventem airport that ensures the security of infrastructure? Is it true that police supervision of the forced repatriation of illegals has been reduced in recent times? If so, does this impact the police passenger surveillance and control service?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic296x.u54	Mr Pivin, the preparatory documents at my disposal mention only three questions, not five. If I may, I will respond to the additional two in writing. I'll do it right away. Currently, the organizational framework for the Federal Aviation Police includes 435 personnel (Ops and CALog). Apart from the aviation police, a criminal police detachment is also present at the airport. The organizational framework of the secondment provides for 23 staff members. The airport also has a security service with 125 employees. This service deals primarily with access and security controls for passengers, their hand luggage and hold baggage. In the context of optimisation, Table OT3, Phase 4 provides for the opening of all vacant jobs to the Brussels Airport Aviation Police. In concrete terms, this means that 67 jobs, including those of the 51 detachments already established, are probably already published. I have indeed promised the unions to increase the number of police officers and to fill the framework. However, there have not been enough applications during the various recruitment sessions. So I decided a detachment of 51 police officers to fill a 67-job hole. I only have 16 people to add to complete the framework. Detaching staff is easy, but it is difficult to recruit them specifically for the airport. We are trying to understand the reasons. For other open places, other members may also apply. Taking into account the procedures to be followed during mobility, the establishment of the staff may be foreseen at the earliest from 1 May 2016. We are talking about the 16 members that are missing. With regard to the other questions, I will provide you with the answers later.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic296x.u55	The 51 seconded police officers were elsewhere. So that means you have to replace them?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic296x.u56	Yes, but in places where it is easier to recruit!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic296x.u57	I note that Mr Thiébault is not present to ask his question No 7638.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic296x.u58	Madam President, Minister, this question was also raised in the discussion of your policy statement last year. At the committee meeting in November 2014, I asked you about the applicability of the Dutch law Bibob, the law to promote integrity assessments by the public administration. This law already allows in the Netherlands to assess the integrity of an applicant for a permit or grant, and to withdraw it when it appears that it is used for criminal activities. Before the introduction of the Bibob law, only police and public prosecutors could intervene in malicious practices. Since 2003, other administrative bodies have also had an instrument for this purpose. Moreover, the Dutch law has led to the relocation of certain activities to the border region. Companies that were targeted by that law in the Netherlands have, among other things, moved to Belgium. You replied in committee that it is indeed being examined whether those rules are applicable in Belgium and that it is intended that a decision on the granting or withdrawal of a licence will be taken on the basis of information circulating in the government. Your 2016 policy paper also states that it focuses on the development of effective regulation and the creation of framework conditions for operationalising administrative enforcement. I would like to ask you the following questions. Firstly, what progress has been made with the development of a regulation on the administrative approach to crime? Is that what your services are doing? If so, can you give us an idea of the timing? When can we expect legislation for the administrative approach in Belgium?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic296x.u59	Madam President, Mrs Gabriels, it is difficult to set an exact date at the moment. I can tell you that the preliminary study is in the final phase. This is now summarised in a basic document. It lists both the bottlenecks and the existing regulations and the relevant projects, as well as the literature study. In this way we will know what we already have and what we have to provide for in order to complete this passage from the coalition agreement. The criminal approach to organised crime is currently mostly reactive, and is focused on providing evidence of crime and on the guilt of suspects. With the administrative approach, we are trying to stop organised crime by imposing administrative measures. This requires cooperation between administrative and judicial authorities. For example, local authorities should be able to justify the refusal of a licence. They are therefore often dependent on information that is sometimes already available in other administrative services. I am thinking of administrative services such as inspection services, police and justice. Central to this is the question of who can exchange data and with whom, and which data can be exchanged. In addition, Belgium has little or no experience of administrative enforcement in relation to organised crime. Much has already been done by different police areas, but there is a need for coordination, support and coherence. For this reason, an advisory committee will be set up in a first phase. This will include the relevant policy levels, departments, services and actors. This committee will meet for the first time in January 2016. The aim is to develop the regulatory framework, including the exchange of information, as well as a supporting organisational model, with the abovementioned experts. In the first phase, the identification of the relevant partners will be carried out. Now that the preliminary study, the basic document on which I have just referred, has almost been completed, we will be able to start supporting and legal work next year. The preliminary study is almost complete and now we can start the real work.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic296x.u60	Mr. Secretary, I note that you are working hard on it. We'll follow up on this. This is not an obvious matter. I hope that the advisory committee will be able to do the necessary work.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic296x.u61	Madam President, Minister, you stated during the discussion of the budget that it was the intention to reach a bilateral agreement with France and possibly with Germany on the fight against border crime. A solution would be sought with the Netherlands and Luxembourg in the Benelux context. In the meantime, the new agreement between Belgium and France on cross-border cooperation in police and customs matters entered into force on 1 October 2015. This agreement replaces the old Tournai agreement, which was no longer sufficient, and contains many measures to be more vigorous in the fight against border crime, not only in the form of additional police capacity, but also in the form of improved data exchange, wider territorial scope and coordinated use of ANPR cameras. Mr Minister, I have the following questions. What is the current state of affairs with regard to the agreements with the other neighbouring countries? Can we expect similar measures in this regard?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic296x.u62	Madam President, Mrs Gabriels, the basis for cooperation with the Netherlands and Luxembourg is the Benelux Treaty on cross-border police action of 8 June 2004. In January, I agreed with my Dutch and Luxembourg colleagues to explore how to update and upgrade this treaty in order to further intensify our police cooperation and thus to be able to take even better action against cross-border crime. This exercise is as good as done. There are clear prospects for strengthening the 2004 Convention, including the cross-border jurisdiction regime and the exchange of operational information. I will soon be in touch with my Dutch and Luxembourg colleagues on this matter again. The intention is to start negotiations on the new treaty in early 2016. So there have already been bilateral contacts between the countries. By starting the negotiations, I mean the negotiation at political level to complete the treaty change. We have launched a similar process with Germany. The basis for cooperation here lies in the bilateral Police Convention of 27 March 2000. I agreed with my German colleague in June to revise that treaty as well. Following this, discussions have been launched with the aim of completing them in 2016. Just like the Treaty with France which has recently entered into force, Doornik 2, we also want to establish treaties with the other neighbouring countries in order to further strengthen cross-border police cooperation. In addition to wider powers to act cross-border, for example in the framework of mixed patrols and joint control actions, it is mainly about additional opportunities to exchange operational information across borders.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic296x.u63	Madam President, Minister, thank you for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic296x.u64	Minister, the subject of my question came to the media a few months ago. Since 22 September 2015, federal police have carried out more targeted checks to combat human trafficking and illegal immigration. These controls are mainly carried out in places where analysis shows that there is the greatest chance of finding smugglers and undocumented people. These include not only road and border lanes but also freeway parking, rail and airport controls. In the case of ordinary police operations, too, we are now being asked to look for extra refugees. Minister, on 2 October you announced that 267 undocumented people had already been arrested in these actions. Afterwards there were several reports in the media about arrested refugees. Where the arrested illegals end up, it would depend on their situation. Where do these refugees first end up and according to what criteria? Where are they going after that? How many refugees have we been talking about so far?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic296x.u65	Mrs Gabriels, targeted checks are being carried out on human trafficking and illegal migration. During an interception the account of the person concerned is heard and the triptych, this is photo, fingerprint and description, is performed. All the information collected is delivered by the police to the Department of Foreign Affairs. It is then up to the Foreign Affairs Department to decide what needs to be carried out and the police carry it out. This may be an order to leave the territory, which may also be to allow the person concerned to be incarcerated, and that may be to contact the Voogdij service, in case of minority. The Foreign Affairs Department at that time says what needs to be done with the person in question in that particular case. The police are therefore the enforcer of the decision of the Department of Foreign Affairs and the Department of Foreign Affairs should base itself on the information provided by the police. If the migrant or asylum seeker is allowed to have access to it, there is no knowledge of where the person concerned is going. During most interceptions, migrants are informed that they are on their way to Brussels for the submission of political asylum. In the West Flanders and East Flanders regions, the United Kingdom is declared the final destination and clearly concerns the problem of transit migration. The figures I can now give you are concrete until 29 November 2015. It is only interceptions within the framework of Medusa, the targeted action. We have, of course, asked for checks to be carried out in routine checks, but the figures I give now only result from the Medusa action. There are 84 people in the air, 418 people in the rail sector, 385 people in the road and 63 people in the sea, 950 people in total. The top nationalities are Syria with 360 people, Iraq with 157 people, Afghanistan with 130 people and Iran with 56 people. I can add that Medusa has already arrested a whole series of smugglers, but I do not have the exact number, and I think it is dangerous to mention a number that is not exact. In any case, a whole series of smugglers have been arrested, and I think that is very important in this regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic296x.u66	Minister, as you yourself say, arresting smugglers is indeed very important. If the police are so committed to action against human trafficking, then it is strange that those involved can simply have access to it. However, it is better for the people behind organised crime to be caught by your services, if I may put it that way. Maybe you can give me those numbers later. Apart from that, I would like to endorse what Mr Nollet just said. At the end of this year, I would like to thank you for the hard work and your thorough presentations in this committee. I'd like to wish you happy celebrations and hopefully a little rest in the next few days.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic296x.u67	If there is peace for me, there is peace for the land! Thanks, anyway, that's very much appreciated.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic296x.u68	Mr. Minister, watch out for me. I want you to watch out for me. I want you to watch out for me. I want you to watch out for me.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic296x.u69	For the record, that's not what I meant.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic296x.u70	No, I was kidding.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic296x.u71	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Konrad Degroote's 7800 was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic296x.u72	Minister, I hope that I will be able to thank you later for your hard work. It will depend a little on the answer I will get in this very delicate matter. I would like to outline the problem in all serenity. You may be aware of that, Minister. We've had the terror attacks in Paris. The terrorist threat also rose in Belgium. In the interests of all citizens, police and military efforts were increased. Everyone is being asked to be extra vigilant. More and more there appears to be a downside. Vigilance in some cases leads to "I need to be careful" overstressed reactions and overstressed agents. We know there's a lot of stress. There have been incidents in which police officers, on the basis of what we hear in the media, have become aware of the files in themselves which have also been investigated, apparently brutal or inappropriate. We've heard the stories of Zwijndrecht. We have heard the stories of Mr Montasser, of Kortrijk and this weekend in Ghent. I don't want to talk about the business itself. You can't say anything about that. But what's the danger? Young people with a migration background are more and more impressed. That's not just because of the recent attacks. It's a fact that's been around for a long time. We cannot ignore that. The young people rightly ask for a signal, I think, of political responsibilities not to give the police a free pass to pick out someone with a different skin color for the reason of suspicious behaviour. I think we can agree on that. But I think there should also be more openness shown by the police. They have to do their job. That's for sure. It's hard, it's dangerous and there's stress. But if someone was wrongly picked up or searched, or the performance was not proportionate, then it is also advisable that there may be feedback from the police, an explanation, possibly an apology if something went wrong. Now we often hear from the spokesperson: "The procedure has been followed." That is quite a sec, hence a number of specific questions. Firstly, the complaints are known, what is your response to them in general without going into detail about the matters themselves? With the rise in the threat of terror, do you notice an increasing number of complaints about police action? Secondly, are there specific guidelines during the increased threat level during this period when checking whether suspect or wanted persons are maintained in general checks? Thirdly, did you in any way ask the police forces to prevent certain populations from being endorsed in the search for potential terrorists? Fourthly, do you think you can do something to avoid, or reduce the likelihood of such incidents occurring in the future? Mr Minister, I am asking these questions because I am concerned about a possible escalation and a reverse reaction from a group which, rightly or wrongly, but sometimes rightly, feels endorsed. They will perhaps radicalise just as much and we will create more problems than we want. From this concern I ask what you can do as a minister, what signal you can give and how you can give direction to that debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic296x.u73	Madam President, Mr Van Hecke, I understand and share your concern. We must do everything possible to ensure that there is no false perception of police action in these delicate times. It is true that the media recently reported on the manner in which police officers are acting in the context of the current threat of terrorism. Further investigations by the competent authorities will have to show whether or not, as you call it, there is a brutal and possibly inappropriate action by policemen. Take it from me that I'll have all the cases that come to me investigated. Let's get that straight. At the moment, none of the investigations into the cases that recently reached the media have been completed. I therefore have no precise information at the moment about any pattern in the performances. Nor can I say that there is an increase in the number of complaints about police actions. Some of them have now reached the media, but on whether or not there is an increase in the number of complaints about police action, related to the increased level of threat, Mr Geens or, a little later, the P Committee will be able to give an answer. I wouldn't go so far as to speak of overstressed policemen. I don't think we're going through that. It is true that the workload of our policemen has increased; they are under pressure but that is part of their professional mission. They are people who, by definition, often have to be able to work under pressure. In conclusion, therefore, I do not want to do this yet. Perhaps we should conclude that after these investigations. At the moment, however, this is not the case. As for your second question, during the increased level of threat, there are no national guidelines for monitoring or maintaining suspects. However, police officers are asked to be extra vigilant. The recent events, the current threat level and the increased vigilance requested obviously lead to more checks on the ground. That's a fact. They must, of course, be done respectfully and correctly in all circumstances. The way in which these checks or interceptions are carried out is always part of the basic and continuing training of police officers. That's contained in GPI 48. Of course, that doesn't change because of the increased threat level. The manner in which controls or interceptions are carried out should not be subject to the threat level. The number might be because there's more cops on the street. The way in which checks are carried out must, of course, continue to comply with the standard standards. I do not think it is right for me to issue directives here. Our policemen are very well trained. As you rightly say, they are expected to have a correct and neutral attitude but also a firm attitude to interventions. In this respect, I believe that there are sufficient guarantees, both in terms of selection, training, training, supervision and in terms of control. None of those five cases I do. However, there is now supervision and control of all the files that are being delivered to us. Finally, avoiding and reducing the likelihood of such incidents occurring in the future is the practice of every police officer and every police officer. We do this through training and awareness campaigns, through briefings and debriefings to learn from police action. In short, that is actually a continuous intention and a continuous process of care within the police. As I said, when an incident has occurred, the competent authority or the prosecutor of the King, the general inspection, the P Committee or the Chief Constable is supposed to carry out an investigation whenever necessary, and we await the results before drawing conclusions and, if necessary, taking into account flashing policy. On the basis of these reports, I commit myself to learn and adapt the necessary lessons from whatever agencies that come, should any pattern emerge from them.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic296x.u74	Minister, I note that you have an investigation every time facts are known or every time complaints come to you. That's what needs to be done. The police or the mayor of Ghent himself have said that they will ask the P Committee for an investigation. Often these investigations are not public because they concern punctual files. You may be informed of this in one way or another. In any case, we can already conclude that it is a good thing to be able to say in a few months' time that we can examine the number of complaints that have been received and what the findings are. This applies not only to the incidents that the media have achieved, because they may not be the best examples. Maybe there are facts on the ground that the media aren't making because the people aren't known. Something often hits the media when it comes to well-known people or because it's being filmed. I am concerned about that, because I ask myself what is happening elsewhere. You don't want to give guidelines. I can follow you very closely when you say that people are well trained and know what to do. If there are facts, it can sometimes be an important signal that the Minister sends a message, even if it is more towards the people. As Minister of the Interior, without interfering in the files, you can give that signal. If, for example, what Mr Montasser AlDeūmeh said is true, namely that his books were thrown on the ground, then that is not a proper way of doing things. Or if that man in Ghent was told he could take his shit with him, that's not an appropriate language. That is not the way we want the police to act. If that was said or not said, we will not know until later. In any case, we must take the signal seriously. In this context, I refer to a recent study by the Centre for Equality and Combating Racism, which does not deal with this period, but shows that there is a more fundamental problem among some corpses. This study is well known and you can use it to give a number of signals that things need to change. I will continue to follow up on this matter, because this is an important issue, and one quickly falls into a debate on ethnic profiling. And that lives very strongly with young people who feel endorsed. If so, then a time bomb will be created. We must bear that in mind, because we cannot accept the creation of a time bomb. At the same time, we must have confidence in the police services and thank them for their good and hard work, but we must be able to expect them to do so in a correct and neutral way. I'll leave it at that for now. We will certainly continue to follow this up. In any case, Minister, I am counting on you to take this signal very seriously.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic296x.u75	Minister, my question is already dated 13 November. Perhaps you have some more recent information. The Human Rights League had told us at the time of events that took place during the demonstrations on 15 October against the TTIPs. During these actions, the police reportedly forced a web TV cameraman, ZIN TV, to erase all the images shot during that day. An Italian journalist was also reportedly arrested by the police after he filmed a police intervention during the demonstration. It would appear that cases of interventions against journalists covering events of this kind are relatively common. Minister, do you know more about the specific case of the League of Human Rights in connection with this demonstration on 15 October? In general, what are the instructions given to the law enforcement authorities regarding the attitude to be taken towards the television or online press in connection with events? Have any complaints been filed in this context? If so, what were the results of the investigations conducted? If there has been a finding of interference with press freedom or some other form of excess on the part of the security forces in this context, have any measures been taken against those responsible? If so, which ones?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic296x.u76	I do not have any information on this specific case identified by the League of Human Rights. The head of the order service shall direct and provide all information necessary for the proper conduct of the event. The guidelines on operational details related to the event and the persons to be supervised in compliance with Ministerial Circular CP4 on the negotiated management of the public space are consistent with respect for fundamental rights and freedoms, including freedom of expression and assembly, in accordance with the European Convention on Human Rights, freedom to demonstrate, express opinions and respect for freedom of the press. It is the role of the police, in consultation with its partners (organisers, authorities, other police forces) to ensure that the event takes place calmly, mainly through negotiation. I quote from Article 64 of the Royal Decree of 10 May 2006 establishing the code of ethics of the police services concerning the attitude towards the press: "In the context of respect for freedom of the press, members of the operational framework shall prevent the presence of the press at the premises of police interventions only in accordance with the directives of their chiefs or to the extent necessary by the maintenance of public order, by the safety of persons, by the respect of professional secrecy or by the protection of privacy. They comply with the legal provisions as well as with the authorities' directives on relations with the press." You are asking if complaints have been filed and what are the possible results. Rather, it is the competence of my colleague Mr Geens that is best placed to answer these questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic296x.u77	Minister, I did not get a real answer to my questions. The code of ethics to which you refer seems relatively vague on certain concepts and principles. In any case, I hope that on this basis, the police forces will be prevented from committing wrongdoing. You tell me that you have not received any complaints and you suggest that I ask your colleague about this. That's what I'm gonna do. Nevertheless, I remain a little sceptical about the fact that you yourself do not have more information about these events.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic296x.u78	Minister, on 11 October 2015, the Council of Ministers adopted measures to finance the career end of operational staff in local police areas. The mechanism advocated by the Council of Ministers consists in the payment of a grant by the consolidated pension fund of the provincial and local authorities to the resources budget of the FPS Finance. Thanks to this subsidy, the FOD would deposit monthly amounts to the local police zones. In a reaction both the DIBISS and the VVSG openly oppose this decision. The DIBISS states in a letter that the financing mechanism proposed by the federal government is a drain on the pension fund of the local authorities, whereas this funding was to be borne by the federal state. In addition, the Authority states that the chosen solution has the effect that the total number of members of the consolidated pension fund is withheld from the reduction in the pension contribution rate that they could have benefited from following the delay in the time of pension expenditure resulting from the judgment of the Constitutional Court of 10 July 2014. The payment for the years 2016 to 2019 of a subsidy charged to the pension fund in the amount of the savings on pensions has the effect of keeping the expenditure of the fund unchanged. Moreover, the subsidy is intended only for local police areas, which, according to DIBISS, undermines the principle of solidarity which is the essence of the merged pool in which both revenue and expenditure are consolidated. The VVSG also rejects this decision and states that a comparison should be made of the real financing costs per zone, based on individual simulations, in order to achieve reliable figures. The VVSG therefore asks the federal government to return to this decision. Mr President, these comments have been made some time ago. I'd like to get an answer to the following questions. What are your views on the comments of the VVSG and the DIBISS? Has consultation already taken place with both organisations as representatives of local and provincial authorities? Are you considering returning to this decision or amending it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic296x.u79	Mr President, a great deal has already been achieved in this area, and the basic principles have already been laid down politically for the financing of non-activity prior to retirement. I refer to the results of budgetary control, in particular the notification of the Council of Ministers of 11 October 2015. Both the size and method of financing were politically determined, both for the federal state, that is for PDOS, and for the local areas. In Section 17 of the general expenditure budget additional appropriations were entered and these will be neutralized to the actual cost of the end-of-life regime by a deposit due to DIBISS to the Federal State. That is so decided and will be implemented as well, whatever DIBISS and the VVSG think of it. We did consult with them and DIBISS' first criticism was on one of the slopes to solve this. The criticism of DIBISS and also the VVSG was justified and was about the fact that we would work with averages. This is being adjusted and we are now going to work on the basis of real pension costs and real savings. That is so certain and that will be implemented, but its concrete implementation is evidently with Mr Bacquelaine, the Minister for Pensions, who is currently preparing a preliminary draft law. My services provide the necessary technical cooperation to implement that law.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic296x.u80	Minister, I am glad that you have already listened to the criticisms or comments made by both departments and that, if what you say is correct, the comments on these averages will be corrected and the calculation made effectively. You're saying it's being redirected, may I assume it's already been rescheduled? On 11 October, there was already a royal decree giving effect. Does that still have any effect until when your colleague Mr Bacquelaine will amend it, or is that already the case today?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic296x.u81	That is already the case today.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic296x.u82	That is already the case today. I therefore assume that this is not at the disadvantage of that consolidated pension fund.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic296x.u83	Debates of the European Parliament President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions:
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic296x.u84	Minister, following the bloody attacks in Paris on 13 November 2015, the French government recently launched an awareness campaign to better prepare and protect citizens from the terrorist threat. An illustrated poster entitled "Reaction in the event of a terrorist attack" was widely distributed by the French authorities, both in public places (Mayories, ministries, cultural centres, prefectures, museums, stadiums, etc.). on social networks. This medium gives very precise practical instructions to citizens on how to react to attacks. Articulated around the triptych: "Escape, hide, alert", it also provides all the contact details necessary to contact the authorities in case of problems. Of course, Belgium has not been hit by tragic events similar to those in Paris, but our country is also living under the terrorist threat today and is a potential target. The federal government has so far taken all the necessary measures to protect the population as far as possible, the Brussels lockdown being the best illustration. However, despite all the firm and responsible measures taken by the government since the Paris attacks, despite all the efforts made by our security and intelligence services, the possibility of being hit by a terrorist attack cannot, unfortunately, be totally excluded. If such a scenario were to occur, information from citizens, similar to that adopted by our French neighbours, could prove very useful in order to protect the population as much as possible. Minister, how do you view this information and prevention initiative taken by the French authorities? Do you think that this type of practical signage can be useful in protecting our population and, if so, do you envisage a reflection on the development of a similar device in our country?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic296x.u85	Mr Calomne, in Belgium, preventive information on the risks around us has been in the hands of the various actors involved in emergency planning and crisis management for some years now, given the undeniable interaction between risk communication and crisis communication. National and local authorities are constantly working to strengthen the risk culture among their citizens. Indeed, in order for them to be able to respond appropriately to emergencies as the first actors of their own security, it is essential that they have a knowledge of the risks surrounding them, but above all that the right reflexes to be adopted are understood and integrated into the collective unconscious. As part of the risk prevention policy carried out by the Internal FPS in addition to campaigns and information websites addressing specific nuclear and chemical risks, the Directorate-General Crisis Centre launched in November 2014 a new web portal dedicated specifically to preventive information on all risks. The portal, which is made available to citizens and carried out by all the actors concerned, is also intended to support the municipalities in their obligation to provide their citizens with preventive and prior information on the risks affecting them, as well as on their emergency plans and procedures. Convinced of the importance of providing practical, clear and concise advice, the Crisis Centre is already working on the development of specific infographics for different risks. These, developed in the three national languages, will be available in 2016 on the portal.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic296x.u86	Minister, thank you for this relatively reassuring information. I note that with the government, you have already made a whole series of arrangements. Given the changing situation, it was useful to recall the importance of prevention. In addition, you mentioned the preparation of infographics in all three languages and their availability in 2016 on the portal. Can you tell me exactly when these infographics will be available? Is there any possibility of more public communication? If so, how?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic296x.u87	This will be made available as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic296x.u88	Question No 7975 by Mr Benoît Pieboeuf is transformed into a written question. Question No 7981 by Mrs Fonck falls. Debates of the European Parliament 7999 by Mrs Barbara Pas has been postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic296x.u89	Madam President, Deputy Prime Minister, the announcement in the press of the murder of a doctor by a patient on December 1, 2015, during a home visit, moved public opinion. This tragic event reminds us once again of the question of the safety of the profession. The latter is in fact subject to multiple risks of violence, due in particular to the sums of money that doctors carry with them, to insistent and sometimes aggressive demands for prescriptions for certain regulated products or to patients who suffer from psychiatric diseases. According to a recent survey published by Mediplanet magazine, two thirds of doctors claim to have already been subjected to violence in the course of their activities. If this violence is verbal in 66 per cent of cases, it translates physically in the remainder of cases. This means that one in five doctors has already been beaten and beaten! You will agree, minister, with these figures! This problem must be quickly taken with arms and solutions must be found to ensure maximum safety. There is of course no miracle remedy, but an addition of concrete measures can certainly make a difference. In this regard, a recent suggestion has been made that the use of a specific "call button", installed on a smartphone, could be discreetly activated by the doctor in order to prevent him from being in danger. This call for assistance from the police services is then coupled with a geolocation, which is supposed to save valuable time. However, this installation still needs to be tested. Minister, how do you view the implementation of this new tool for physicians? According to the daily Le Soir, this application could soon be tested by your services. Can you confirm this information and, if necessary, provide us with details of this project? In concrete terms, what is the planned agenda and how many doctors could participate in the pilot experiment? How will they be chosen and on which geographical areas? What deadline has been set for the evaluation and, possibly, confirmation of the use of this system? Furthermore, it is my responsibility that some doctors, including the president of the Belgian Group of General Practitioners, consider that the Internal FPS should produce new basic advice to doctors, drawing on the best practices of doctors' circles. Minister, what is your opinion on this? Are you considering setting up an information campaign for physicians to improve their safety? If so, could you provide me with the content and deadlines?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic296x.u90	Mr Calomne, my answer will be in line with the answer I have already given on the same subject in plenary. The application to which you refer in your question and which Le Soir referred is in fact an application linked to the call of 112-101 and was developed by SA ASTRID. This application is not exclusively for general practitioners. Every citizen will be able to use it. For us, doctors are not a separate caste. However, the idea is to ask general practitioners to participate in the test phase before making the application available to the general public. A contact will be made with the associations of general practitioners. The application is currently being tested technically in 112-101 power plants, after which it can be submitted to a test audience. These technical tests are very important. We must, in fact, ensure that any request for aid is correctly relayed to the power station. The app is configured so that it has to go through certain steps when installing it on a smartphone. You must enter your name and date of birth and your home. You also have the opportunity to inform certain conditions or to transmit useful information (heart problem, blood type, hearing disorders, etc.). The app will ask you not to disable the geolocation of your smartphone. Operators present in the power plants can locate you immediately. With regard to the doctors' request for the Inland FPS to produce new basic advice for their security, this can take shape within the framework of the consultation platform with organisations representing SMEs and self-employed people, which will be held at a date yet to be determined in January 2016. Based on this platform, a physician-specific working group could be established to discuss the prevention measures to be taken and made known. I will leave it to this platform and, if necessary, this working group to decide on the appropriateness of an information campaign. You will be kept informed of any developments in this file.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic296x.u91	Minister, thank you for your relatively comprehensive answer, which does not call for any further questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic296x.u92	Mr Minister, according to my information, the Brussels Fire Department has made a series of specific arrangements following the decision of the OCAM to fix and maintain the threat at level 4. Additional guard officers and paramedic firefighters are engaged on an ongoing basis. Some are seconded to key positions. Material resources are also being increased with additional ambulances, including disaster ambulances. Other relief areas, which operate with a level 3 threat, are likely to have taken similar steps. Can rescue services, including D1, obtain information about the nature of the risk (explosion, shooting, chemical, etc.)( )? Is this type of information available through Service 100? What is involved in changing the level of threat to the human, material and organisational means that must be available in the various relief areas? What steps should be taken to secure the barracks? Is the possibility of using neighbouring areas, even in the absence of a convention, foreseen? What are the deadlines for the army to be mobilised, if any? How many additional ambulances should be provided in relation to current means? Should we recall additional staff in barracks? If so, how many? How can we provide in our single-disciplinary action plans the necessary means without having a more precise coding of the risks to which stakeholders will be exposed in terrorist attacks? Could any recommendations be made by the Minister? The daily recurring risks are integrated into the budgets of the relief zones, but not the resulting surges in this type of situation. Is there anything to do with this kind of extra cost?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic296x.u93	Mr Blanchart, the Emergency Call Centre always communicates the nature of the incident when calling the emergency services concerned. However, it should be borne in mind that the Emergency Appeal Centre can only transmit the information it receives from the appellant. The November 23, 2015 circular gives clear instructions to fire departments in terms of the human, material and organisational means to be provided in fire brigades during the above-mentioned level of threat. The circular also gave instructions on access to water and the security of barracks. Each relief zone can always request reinforcements from civil protection. Where appropriate, crisis management may always be the subject of a rise in power at the provincial or federal level. Army assistance can be requested 24 hours a day, seven days a week via the PSC Defense. The time frame for defence engagement depends on the assistance requested. In the above circular, zone commanders are only required to ensure that the guard teams are fully staffed. They are not asked to call additional staff. The need to ensure that equipment was ready to be hired was stressed. In the event of a terrorist attack, the procedures for engaging in chemical incidents, for example, may also be applied. As I mentioned in point 6 above, there are no additional costs since no additional staff should be called.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic296x.u94	Thank you for that very clear answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic296x.u95	Madam President, Minister, during the attacks on 13 November in Paris, the mobilization of relief services, particularly the professionals of the SAMU-SMUR and the fire department, was welcomed by all. They have faced, in a remarkable way, a unique crisis because of its scale and its dramatic consequences. In our territory, the threat is not ruled out. According to my information, the Brussels Fire Department has made a series of internal arrangements following the decision of the OCAM to fix the threat at level 4. Our ability to deal with this type of situation in our territory depends on many factors. Minister, are specific provisions for attacks included in our fire officer trainings? Is the terrorist threat included in the crisis management training for fire officers? If not, do you envisage it? Are targeted exercises in terrorist attack circumstances in place? Have they been organized in the past? Are the mono-disciplinary plans of the rescue zones assessed as part of the risk of attack by the Ministry of the Interior? Are you considering training for the speakers on this problem of attack as well as a feedback via the Paris speakers?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic296x.u96	Mr Blanchart, a meeting has already been held to review the crisis management course. Contacts are under way with firefighters in Paris to use their experience. A meeting has already taken place. A terrorist incident falls under crisis management training. In this case, the direction of operations is vested in the police. Several CBRN exercises have been organised with the different disciplines and I plan to have them organized again. I am not competent to evaluate the mono-disciplinary plans of relief zones. This responsibility lies with the areas, each for its own jurisdiction. The feedback from the Paris fire department is very interesting with regard to the management of the wounded, but this falls within the competence of my colleague from Health.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic296x.u97	Minister, thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic296x.u98	Madam President, Minister, according to the latest police statistics, identity fraud is increasing in Belgium, as in 2014 there was a 6% increase in complaints. In case of theft, it is essential to block your identity card to avoid dramatic damage. Indeed, it is possible to open an account in a bank, to withdraw money, to ask for a credit card, to rent a car and to do many other things. To counter this, the authorities are stepping up the fight against identity fraud, on the one hand, by expanding the capacity of the National Register. It will now contain more information about each individual and also old photos. On the other hand, there is another way to combat identity fraud with the free DOC STOP service, which can be used in Belgium and abroad to report the loss or theft of an identity card, passport or residence permit. The problem is that this service is still unknown and, therefore, not used enough. Minister, how many calls did DOC STOP receive for 2015 and 2014 and 2013? Do you see many negative consequences, such as the withdrawal of money, opening an account in case of loss or theft of identity cards? Is there an awareness campaign to make the DOC STOP service known to citizens? If not, are you considering launching one? Apart from DOC STOP, are there other ways to combat identity fraud?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic296x.u99	Madam President, Mrs Cassart, dated 7 December 2015, the departments of the Directorate-General for Institutions and Population (DGIP) had dealt with 192,495 DOC STOP requests for 2015, 222,215 requests for 2014 and 226,425 requests for 2013. These requests come in two forms: telephone calls and faxes. The DGIP Helpdesk Fraud Unit focuses exclusively on cases of falsification, look like and unwarranted acquisition of identity documents. Its role is indeed focused on preventing identity fraud. Information on offences committed with fraudulently obtained and/or used cards is not recorded. When citizens or companies report offences committed with a false identity, they are referred to the competent authorities to prosecute and punish the reported acts. However, it is found that a large part of the cases handled by the DGIP Helpdesk's "Fraude" cell concern illegal immigration. Since the launch of DOC STOP in December 2008, various information campaigns for municipalities, police, embassies and citizens have been conducted regularly by DGIP services. Various communication media have been developed and disseminated to promote DOC STOP: leaflets, posters, maps, stickers, etc. On two occasions, an information campaign via DOC STOP posters was carried out in public transport (buses, trams and metros). The promotion of DOC STOP is also frequently carried out by my services during training courses, at various public events or during contacts with the press. In 2015, and for example, 1,620,000 folders on eID, a full page of which is devoted to DOC STOP, were printed and communicated to the municipalities. Awareness of the need to use the DOC STOP system to counter possible identity fraud will be continued. First of all, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that when citizens use the DOC STOP system, the loss or theft of their electronic card is recorded in the Checkdoc system. This system also helps to combat identity fraud. This is a free online service that allows you to quickly verify whether a Belgian identity document is not known by the Belgian authorities as stolen, lost, outdated or invalid. This is the most current way for an institution or a trader or agency to counter an attempt at identity fraud and its financial consequences. The Chekcdoc user must first identify with a user name and access code. Checkdoc is based on the information available to the Belgian authorities, notably through DOC STOP. The website www.checkdoc.be also provides practical advice to verify the security features of Belgian identity documents. For both Belgian and foreign citizens, the competent authorities are systematically informed of the cases at issue, in particular in cases of suspected fraud or fraud. I would like to inform you that strengthening the approach to identity fraud is one of my priorities for 2016. Identity fraud is, in fact, a constant and growing problem worldwide. Our country is not spared this phenomenon, which is very often an access to various criminal or even criminal acts. To combat this phenomenon, since 2015, a federal task force called "Prevention and fight against identity fraud" meets regularly under the coordination of the Directorate-General for Institutions and Population of the Internal FPS, with a view to establishing between the competent federal authorities and the municipalities or consular posts a genuine network of operational expertise based on the exchanges and problematic cases encountered. This working group is composed of identity experts from the various federal departments of the FPS, the FPS Foreign Affairs and the Central Office for the Suppression of Fake Federal Police. Relations are also established with the local police, prosecutors' offices and other public entities. One of the objectives of this task force is to increase the awareness and awareness of municipalities about identity fraud and to encourage initiatives to better protect themselves against this phenomenon. Since identity data at the level of the National Register is mainly collected and updated by the municipalities, they must therefore be particularly aware of the means of detecting identity fraud and of the actions to be taken when confronted with a dubious, manifestly falsified or counterfeit travel or marital identity document. Acting at source can reduce the risks and the many harms to society. This task force is finalising a circular for municipalities and consular posts in early 2016 aimed at a coordinated approach to preventing and combating identity fraud at the federal and local levels.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic296x.u100	Minister, thank you for your well-substantiated answer. Initiatives will therefore be taken in the course of 2016, which I welcome. Work has already been done and I note that we share the same objectives with regard to this fraud.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic296x.u101	Madam President, Minister, last October, the highway had been blocked in several places in the region of Liège by a trade union, constituting an obstacle to traffic for many hours. With such action, certain limits have been crossed. Not only had the highway been blocked, but there had also been damage. In addition, an emergency surgeon could not reach his hospital. It is legitimate for citizens to be able to express their views on government policy. But these overflows went too far. In particular, the legislation is unequivocal. Indeed, article 406 of the Criminal Code deals with malicious obstacles to the movement of rail, road, river or sea traffic – in this case we are. The Road Traffic Code is also very clear; in its article 21.6 it states that motorcades, demonstrations and rallies are prohibited on highways. Minister, what instructions did you give to the police to supervise the strike? An instruction to let or put an end to this wicked hindrance to traffic?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic296x.u102	Mrs Fonck, the obstacles to motorway traffic on 19 October 2016 were linked to social demonstrations organised by a trade union. These actions on the motorway were spontaneous and unannounced, which made it impossible to ask the authorities beforehand for their guidelines. As stipulated in the circular of 18 July 2002, as soon as the Federal Police became aware of obstacles to motorway traffic, they informed the local and provincial administrative authorities. In accordance with the above circular, they issued a directive to act within the framework of the negotiated management of public space by ensuring the immediate safety of users, by creating contact with the organisers in order to encourage them to leave the motorway as soon as possible and by conducting judicial investigation and the verbalisation of infringements. These measures led to the removal of barriers in the course of the morning. The instructions of the Minister of the Interior were therefore not sought. The reference to article 406 of the Criminal Code concerning judicial findings and possible verbalization of offences falls within the scope of the judicial investigation and is therefore within the competence of my colleague the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic296x.u103	Minister, indeed, if it were unexpected, it would not be possible to give instructions in advance. However, since you refer to the July 18, 2002 circular on the management of public order events on highways, a paragraph states that in the specific case of highways, given the supra-local impact of the events, the provincial governor or the Minister of the Interior are responsible. These blockages lasted many hours. I hear it has not been easy for local authorities to negotiate. However, given each other's responsibilities on the basis of the circular in question, it was also your responsibility to intervene as Minister of the Interior. I would therefore like to conclude not only on this very clear point, but also to say that I think it is surprising to make new legislation, even if the current legislation is not respected. There is nothing to say that making new ones will make it possible to enforce them since the current laws are not respected. For the next time, it seems to me important that we cannot accept such a blockage. It is your responsibility as Minister of the Interior that is engaged.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic296x.u104	Madam President, Minister, on Friday 13 November, there was "1 day without", an excellent preventive operation carried out for several years already by local police in collaboration with the federal police and the municipalities in order to raise awareness among individuals of the safety deficiencies of their homes, in particular against burglaries. The federal police report that in 2014, no fewer than 17,368 robberies affected businesses and businesses. In view of these figures, the Neutral Union of the Independents advocates that a "1 day without" variant specifically targeting companies could be organised. What do you think of this suggestion? If so, will you follow up on it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic296x.u105	Madame de Coster, thank you for your question. As part of the organisation of the operation "1 day without", we are already working with the private sector and companies. But it is true that the main emphasis is on the burglary of private homes. Theft in trade and business is also a scourge; that is why I am not abandoning this phenomenon. I have taken the initiative, with my colleague in charge of Justice and with the support of the Minister responsible for Independents and SMEs, to relaunch the platform for consultation with organisations representing SMEs and independents. The meeting will be held in January. In particular, it will aim to raise the expectations and needs of the various actors concerned. It will then be an opportunity to discuss, in this chamber, the proposal of the NIS. I am not opposed to this suggestion a priori, but it is good to see if other actions would not be more supportive or effective. I will therefore leave it to this platform to propose and determine the appropriate initiatives.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic296x.u106	Thank you, Minister, for your answer, which obviously satisfies me, since you are going to listen to the independents and the companies. Nothing like this to put in place a successful operation that has the consent of all the actors around the table.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic296x.u107	Minister, we have already talked about this operation "1 day without". Since we know that the number of robberies was decreasing between 2013 and 2014 in private homes, as we are increasing from 75,123 robberies in 2013 to 71,753 in 2014, which is encouraging, I wanted to ask you two questions. Have the occupants of housing identified as at risk or poorly equipped taken the appropriate measures to improve the security of their homes? So, does the police have the means to find out? Second, did the number of burglaries tend, as in 2014, to decrease the precise day of the operation?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic296x.u108	The local police or the municipality does not have any structural means to determine whether the private housing identified as at risk has finally taken the appropriate measures after audit. The police zone or the municipality may be able to indicate how many counselling visits its techno-prevention advisers have made, but the feedback on the follow-up reserved for these councils is the responsibility of the citizens who have made use of their services. An automatic or binding return of information is not foreseen because the advice given is not an obligation to act. It is the responsibility of everyone to take appropriate action in accordance with their needs and capabilities. This is in particular the meaning of the action "1 day without": to make the population aware that it can also act at its level to combat burglaries and that not all is based on the action of the public authorities alone. In response to your second question, the federal police do not yet have the information you are requesting.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic296x.u109	Thank you for your answers, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic296x.u110	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Pas 7999 has been postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic296x.u111	Mr Minister, the President and the first Vice-President of the Permanent Committee of Local Police seem to have resigned during the General Assembly. With this initiative, they say they want to highlight a lack of support and a willingness to listen, both because of the federal police and the competent federal authorities. Both the Executive Board and the General Assembly note that the VCLP would hardly or not be listened to at the highest level, let alone take sufficient account of the aspirations of the local police. The standing committee representing the local police defends the interests of 75% of the staff of the integrated police. It therefore wishes to contribute actively to giving local police a voice in the decision-making on security policy in general and the role of the integrated police in particular. The committee states that it is always striving for an integrated operation with the federal component, but that these efforts are not always mutual. For example, local police seem unable to claim parts of the EUR 400 million recently released in the context of the increased terrorist threat. The federal police claim the budget and didn't ask a question to the Permanent Committee of Local Police. In the criticism of these gentlemen we read that the EUR 400 million allocated to the increased threat of terrorism did not take into account the needs of the local areas. Is that right? Were the needs of the local zones requested? Have local police needs been formulated by the Permanent Commission of Local Police? If bad cooperation is not addressed, the idea of the integrated police may be called into question. What is your proposal to improve the integrated operation again? What problems have you already encountered in connection with the cooperation of the Permanent Commission of Local Police and the competent federal authorities?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic296x.u112	Madam President, Minister, I am therefore relaying the call for help from the local police. At the last General Assembly of the Standing Committee on Local Police (CPPL), the President and Vice-President resigned. The justifications they gave to the press are striking. Mr. Brabant hopes that his resignation will serve as an electroshock. He justifies his resignation as follows: "We are no longer being listened to. On this detailed dossier that we made in July on a specific project – with a cost analysis and an estimate of operational impacts – no response was given either in September or October despite several reminders." The findings are indeed very worrying or even alarming. He spoke of cuts in budgets, of the lack of the necessary support at the level of information technology or purchasing centres, while the areas joined together to find solutions. Mr. Brabant is neither a newcomer nor someone who's used to this kind of mood swings. He has a lot of experience, he has a long career in the police services behind him, whether at the BSR, the Montgomery area or the gendarmerie. His Vice-President, Mr. Hellinckx, had given several signals at previous general meetings to indicate how the situation reached a point of no return. He said it was the mutism of your services that pushed him to resign. CPPL accounts for 75% of the country's police force. It remains structurally underfunded. The complaints appear to crystallize on three specific files. The first concerns the imposition by the federal police of a system of compulsory and too expensive mailing and communication for the local police areas; it has just informed that it will no longer allocate resources to support the old systems. The second concerns the 400 million announced by the government about which they have not been heard. The third concerns public procurement and equipment, normally under the responsibility of the federal police for part, which are currently being arrested or not monitored. Minister, this real appeal for help cannot leave you indifferent. Why haven't you or your administration responded to the various CPPL solicitations in the last few months? This is clearly reflected in their communication. Do you intend to grant additional financial resources to CPPL to ensure its proper functioning? What is apparent from the discussions you had with the officials you met, for the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic296x.u113	Minister, I will not recall the important and pivotal role of the CPPL. The establishment of this federal government has created a great expectation in the head of the police services, especially when a government agreement indicates that the federal police services will strengthen the local police force. In addition, it should not be forgotten, in the reasoning, that the police as a whole have now been extremely engaged on the ground for some ten months in difficult and perhaps unprecedented tasks. You received Mr. Brabant following his call for help. It's a coincidence I saw him this morning and he praised the quality of your listening. We did not go any further because it was within the framework of the Conference of Mayors that I met him, particularly with regard to the negotiated protocol for the management of public space. He was satisfied with the interview you gave him yesterday. I don't know the content. I join my colleagues in asking you what you are planning to do in the context of the CPPL's appeal.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic296x.u114	Colleagues, as Mr Pivin said, yesterday I met with the resigning President. It was a frank, open and apparently appreciated discussion. On the merits, I can inform you of the following. The basic idea is that the Standing Committee on Local Police will play and continue to play an important role and that its functioning deserves further attention. The areas represent more than two thirds of the integrated police force and they must be able to be heard. Of course, it is not obvious for an advisory body to decide on behalf of the 192 shareholders when the federal component is a unit in itself. The first is to represent the 192 police zones in their diversity, between small rural areas and large cities. It is not very easy, but this increase in legitimacy is an issue on which the Commission itself, and all police areas, must work. For my part, I wish to cooperate in the optimisation of the Commission. In the coming days, contacts will therefore be made to ensure that all stakeholders, including the federal component, benefit by mid-January 2016 from an overview of the structural measures that will support the functioning of the CPPL. These measures cover internal organisation, staff credit, accommodation and other operating costs. Some measures are inspired by a historical context, but the minds mature and evolve and allow us to envisage, fortunately, other solutions or even other orientations. In parallel with the formalisation of the composition of the Council of Mayors, concrete levers will therefore be created in favour of the defence of local interests, whatever their nature. I also note that the recently established coordination committee has yet to find its place and should pursue a selective and more strategic agenda. The coordination committee is actually the turntable and an exponent of the integrated police, but its agenda is apparently overwhelmed with points that may not really need to be addressed. The issues that need to be dealt with there are therefore at risk of disappearing due to a lack of time on the agenda. There is certainly still work to be done. However, as far as the EUR 400 million security envelope is concerned more specifically, I can confirm that in the presentation which the federal police had to present urgently, there were indeed items that would benefit local areas, directly, via ICT and mail connections, indirectly through better operational support. This will be the subject of further consultations with the standing committee, as will the difficult and extensive iPolice dossier. These 400 million euros have not yet been allocated to specific projects. Projects have been requested, but there is still time and space to submit further proposals. There's nothing to stop the local police from putting their own stamp on this. For me, the most important thing is that the signal has been picked up and that the standing committee knows that I have a partner for the future with a view to the proper functioning of the two components and of the integrated police, ultimately for the benefit of the public services. Normally, a general meeting was scheduled for tomorrow to determine the malaise. The General Assembly has been cancelled. A new meeting is scheduled for 14 January. I'll be there. We will get the grievances today or tomorrow on paper from the permanent committee. I will answer all these grievances, hopefully a sufficient answer for the standing committee. I committed myself to providing a concrete response to each issue at the General Assembly on 14 January. I will admit it honestly, the functioning of the standing committee has escaped my attention a little. However, the signal given by the President and the Vice-President has been picked up. I have agreed with the chairman of the standing committee that, as I do with the Commissioner-General, I will meet him on a regular basis in the cabinet so that we can play on the ball much shorter. I may be a bit ahead of the facts, but I believe that the climate of confidence has been restored. I regret, with you probably, that it had to be done in such a way. I will try to rectify the situation as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic296x.u115	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. In conclusion, I would like to say the following. You hit mea culpa yourself and say you paid a little too little attention to it. If you do want to do so in the future, that is a first step. In this way the necessary attention can be paid to the existing committee. As you yourself pointed out, the committee is a pillar of cooperation between the federal and local police, which is one of the foundations of the integrated police. I am pleased to hear that there has already been a contact and that there will be a consultation. You are also going to the General Assembly to strengthen the links and listen to the views of the committee. As far as EUR 400 million is concerned, no decisions have yet been taken. There would still be consultations with the committee on this matter. However, it is not because the federal police are making a number of proposals, which also meet the needs of the local police. I have another comment that was made to me from the field of work. Apparently, there are 192 partners on that committee next to the federal police. With the 192 there are big ones and little ones. One of the critical comments is that there is often rather direct communication between your services, the large police zones and the federal police. The little ones often fall out. In the future, it must be one of the main concerns of listening to and consulting with the smaller local police areas.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic296x.u116	Minister, thank you for your answers. The fact that you met Mr. Brabant and announced that you are going to take the case with you is a good thing. On the other hand, I take note of the fact that you did some kind of mea culpa recognizing that the file is somewhat "out of your radar". In any case, what is important is the future, the action plan, the support. Having said that, I wonder whether Messrs. Brabant and Hellinckx will finally stay at their post. That would be a good thing for the stability of the Standing Committee. You talked about a climate of trust. Since the two protagonists are experienced people and are familiar with the workings of the police, they are likely to be a guarantor of such a climate. In conclusion, I encourage you to take this file with arms-to-body. Indeed, since the results of the opinion poll published this weekend indicate that you are now popular in the two Regions of the country – you have moved from the status of "bekende Vlaming" to that of "Wallon known" – I invite you to get involved in this issue of local police for the benefit of the 11 million Belgians.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic296x.u117	Minister, I am simply asking you not to make a false leap on 14 January because they are really counting on your presence.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic296x.u118	Madam President, Minister, at the beginning of December 2015, Defence Minister Steven Vandeput's services contacted Google and other companies on the basis of geolocalized search engines and imagery to request that the visual data of Belgian military districts be blurred. These digital tools offer everyone the opportunity to view very precise photographs, either aerial or taken from the ground, from our barracks and other military installations. In the current context of a terrorist threat, therefore, free access to these images could be the basis for malicious use and thus a threat to our national security. The Minister's objective is therefore to limit any risk and his request is in particular due to an intrusion in the Hemptinne Commanding Quarter near Leuven on November 30, 2015. Like military quarters, nuclear power plant sites are also strategic locations and potential targets of criminal acts. However, as with military installations, online map software also provides aerial and ground images of these energy production sites. This information, which is accessible to the general public, could be used by ill-intentioned persons. In the context of the global threat we face, can you tell us whether an approach comparable to that undertaken by the Minister of Defence is supported by your services? In concrete terms, are you in favour of a process of blurring nuclear installations and, if so, have any steps already been taken with the search engines concerned? Is a timetable already set for this file?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic296x.u119	Madam President, in 2012, the Federal Nuclear Control Agency produced a guide to the use of gsms and cameras in nuclear facilities. This guide is intended to assist operators in developing a policy for the preservation of sensitive information. This guide took into account the existence of web applications such as Google Earth and Google Street View. These applications allow everyone to view at a distance detailed and relatively recent images of the land where nuclear power plants and surrounding land are located. The PSAN applies the principle that the operator is responsible for the safety of its facilities and sensitive information. The operator must therefore check the information that can be freely viewed through applications such as Google Earth and Google Street View. If certain sensitive information can be viewed, the operator must ask the web application manager to hide the images in question. The operator must also inform the PSAN. Google undertakes to hide the images within 15 days of the application. AFCN verifies that the available photos and videos featuring nuclear facilities do not disclose any sensitive information. It is also prohibited at any time to photograph nuclear facilities and installations in a non-professional capacity.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic296x.u120	Minister, if I understand your answer correctly, it is the responsibility of each operator to do what is necessary. Have you undertaken to raise awareness of this issue at your level? Are there contacts and consultations within this framework?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic296x.u121	Yes, it is one of the AFCN's responsibilities to have these contacts with the operators. As you know, in Belgium there are not a large number of nuclear power plant operators. It is therefore quite easy to have contact with them. It's not like the 192 police zones. Here, dialogue is easier.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic296x.u122	Minister, you will also have heard this week that the mayor of Ghent was not so satisfied because he had not received knowledge of the list of radicalised young people, unlike his fellow Members from Mechelen and Vilvoorde, for example. Apparently, the police would have refused to provide the information to the mayor. By following the press for a moment it became quite a cacophony. It was said that it was not allowed by the parquet, the parquet said that it had not received a question and so is pushed with the black guy. Eventually, the mayor got his information, but I keep thinking this is a weird thing, and it's important to dot the i if necessary. Apparently, that's what's needed on the premises sometimes. First of all, is it true that the mayor of Ghent has not been granted access? What elements have you been able to identify? Secondly, for what reason was the Mayor of Ghent not allowed to know about this? Thirdly, what criteria are used to grant some mayors and others not? Is there a clear directive on this? I should not normally know the secret circular foreign fighters, but I know that there are very clear things in Chapter 6 where the mayor can and should be informed of a number of elements. Since that directive exists, was it correctly applied in this case or not? Fourthly, do you intend to contact the mayor of Ghent, the police and the police or, in other words, those responsible for dealing with this and ensuring that these problems can no longer arise in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic296x.u123	Mr Van Hecke, I can tell you that there have already been contacts with Ghent in the meantime to say what can and cannot be done in the context of the circular. I think the letter was clear on that point. I don't really understand. We have repeated what can, can and cannot be done. The fact that the mayor was not given access to the list of foreign fighters is a non-application of the circular letter. That's what happened. Mayors should also receive information from each individual foreign fighter on their territory. That's what it says in the circular, which wasn't in the past. So that's changed. There's no reason why the mayor can't take note of the list of foreign fighters. All mayors facing foreign fighters must be given the same information. That's obvious. This is arranged with two documents, the COL 10/2015 and the circular of 21 August 2015. The contacts with Ghent are over. I think the incident is really closed now.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic296x.u124	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. At the time of submission, this was not completely closed. If this happens in a city like Ghent, not a small town with professional people and I also know the people of the parquet, I wonder what this must be like in other cities and municipalities. Indeed, the letter of dispatch is clear. It is good that you confirm this, but they should actually read the letter. I hope that the incident in Ghent has made it clear that there are new rules that may not have been known everywhere in August. Everyone must be treated in the same way. The mayor must be able to obtain the necessary information to be able to assume his or her responsibility. I hope everyone on this one knows what needs to be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic296x.u125	Minister, in the Government's agreement, the authority has committed itself to taking steps to address the problem facing the police services as a result of the rise in age and career conditions in order to qualify for an early retirement pension. A Royal Decree providing for a number of additional end-of-career measures for staff members of the operational framework is drawn up. It provides for the structural statutory possibility of applying for suitable employment and refers to a database of suitable vacancies within the integrated police force. This order was made on 25 November, if I am not mistaken. But to date, the database does not seem ready. It is certainly not operational. About this database of suitable job vacancies, where are you? When will it be effective? What means are you going to use to achieve this time objective?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic296x.u126	Mrs Ben Hamou, the Royal Decree of 9 November 2015 laying down provisions on the end-of-care scheme for staff members of the integrated police operational framework provides for two components. On the one hand, the possibility for staff members who meet certain conditions to obtain a pre-pension non-activity; on the other hand, the possibility for staff members to benefit from a suitable job for the time left to work. A draft circular has been prepared to address both aspects and to give instructions to all police forces. It will be published as soon as possible. However, there is no question of waiting for this circular to be issued to move forward. The first part has already been implemented. Integrated police personnel can now apply via the standard form which has been made available to each employer for this purpose. The second part concerns the provision of suitable jobs. It takes a little more time to identify suitable jobs within each police force and then collect the needs in order to centralize them. The Federal Police has been tasked with collecting and centralizing these needs from local police areas. The development of a suitable computer tool takes time. This tool is unlikely to be ready for the start of the year. Nevertheless, the list will be made available in simplified form on the Integrated Police Portal in January to allow staff members to find a job adapted to their situation as quickly as possible. The computerised tool under development will allow for more efficient short-term management of the publication of these jobs. Unfortunately, I cannot yet give a concrete deadline for making this tool available, but this should be done in the first half of 2016.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic296x.u127	Thank you for your answers, minister, but the staff who want to use this end-of-career plan today, how does it do it? Will a list be published? Okay, thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic296x.u128	Minister, recently, the P Committee has identified a rather challenging situation with regard to the Internet Intelligence Support Unit of the Central Anti-Terrorism Unit of the Federal Police, which currently has only one part-time employee, which is far from being enough to deal with this huge web tool. All the more so since we know that radical extremists are very active on the web, that recruitment or awareness campaigns are carried out on the Internet, that young people are approached by this means or that important exchanges can be intercepted via the web in order to avoid possible terrorist acts. As many potential risks as it is essential to control online content. This is probably why you responded to this opinion of Committee P by indicating that the team in question will have 10 people for the beginning of 2016 and about 20 people in the future. I welcome this, even though I regret that so much time has already passed without screening being effective in the fight against terrorism. The transition from a single part-time inspector to a team that will eventually have about 20 agents implies a significant budgetary impact. What budget do you make available for this staff reinforcement? What budget do you intend to make available for its equipment and installation? Will premises be made available to accommodate this unit? How will the recruitment of police officers join the team next year? Will these be internal or external recruitment? What specific training will the team members benefit from in relation to the objectives? On what schedule will recruitment take place? When do you expect the team to be complete? You said that the control will not only concern radicalisation. Can you tell us about the other missions of the Internet Intelligence Support Unit? In this context, is the increase in staff sufficient to cover the entire field of competence?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic296x.u129	Mrs Ben Hamou, a mixed team of 10 to 13 persons from the Federal Judicial Police and the Administrative Police will be set up. Part of this team has been included in Organic Table 3 (OT3) within the Federal Judicial Police, particularly within the Directorate for Combating Serious and Organized Crime. As far as staffing is concerned, I foresee a considerable enlargement for which the budgetary requirements still need to be assessed. For the first team of 13 people, the organic table (OT3) budget has been approved, so there is no need for an additional budget. For the team over time, the federal police are preparing the budget, including personnel and equipment costs. Within the Directorate for Combating Serious and Organized Crime, the premises for this first team of 13 people are ready. The move will take place in the coming days, so we can start early January. For the first team, internal recruitment is ongoing. Within DG SOC, units dedicated to the specific programme to combat serious and organised crime already had people doing research on the Internet. It is therefore normal to start with internal recruitment by recovering the existing expertise. In the event that internal recruitment is not sufficient, places will be open for mobility. As a first step, investigators will receive similar training in Internet training for investigators at the Computer Crime Unit. This training is, for example, oriented towards internet technology, anonymity, open source research. This training will be conducted in collaboration with the Federal Computer Crime Unit. In a second stage, investigators will have to specialize in Internet technologies applicable to their tasks. In January 2016, a team will be set up, but we must take into account that we cannot guarantee that there will be enough candidates to fill the places in-house, failing which mobility will have to be used for the project in the long term, as soon as the budget is validated by the Inspector of Finance and as soon as the selection procedures have been finalized. First of all, the topics covered will be terrorism, radicalisation, the sale of arms, child pornography and public security. Subsequently, once the team has received reinforcement, the scope of application may be extended to other phenomena, taking into account the priorities of the national security plan. If the increase in staff is insufficient, the structure in place will have to be evaluated in due course. If necessary, we will add staff.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic296x.u130	Madam Chair, I thank the Minister for all these clarifications.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic296x.u131	Madam President, Minister, recent events, on which my group has had the opportunity to question you in plenary, have highlighted the use by local police forces of so-called non-lethal weapons, using plastic projectiles, particularly with regard to certain intervention units. Despite their name, these equipments are not anodized and the consequences of their use can be dramatic if they are to be used in poor conditions, without precautions or without particular training. Minister, the equipment of such weapons police areas therefore calls for a number of questions. Can you first tell me whether these weapons are the subject of a particular legal framework, at Belgian and European level? Are these weapons subject, when ordered by local areas or by the federal police, to the assent of the Police Armaments Commission, as is the case with particular weapons? Can you tell me which police services are authorized to use non-lethal, projectile weapons? Under what specific conditions are they allowed to use it? Have the officers authorized to use these weapons received specific training?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic296x.u132	Mrs Ben Hamou, given the time limit for replying to you, I would like to point out that this reply concerns only Belgian legislation. In Belgium, the Arms Act classifies FN 303, non-fire weapon, as non-prescription weapons. In accordance with the legislation regulating the arming of the police services, this is a particular weapon whose acquisition and use requires the authorization of the Minister of the Interior. The use of this weapon must, like any use of force by the police, comply with the requirements of articles 1 and 37 of the Police Function Act and, where appropriate, the provisions of the Criminal Code relating to self-defence. In view of the above, the weapon mentioned may be considered a particular weapon and must be treated as such. A detailed and reasoned request for authorization must be sent to the Minister of the Interior, who will submit it to the Armaments Commission. The Commission will examine it and give an opinion on it. It is on the basis of this opinion that the Minister of the Interior takes a decision. In accordance with the Royal Decree and Circular GPI 62, the Police Armaments Commission is developing guidelines for the use of such weapons. These guidelines can manage acquisition, circumstances, conditions and training. For certain types of weapons, including FN 303, they are available on the police intranet. At present, only a few special police units can use special weapons once they have received my prior authorization and the personnel involved in their use have been properly trained in their handling. The circumstances in which the FN 303 may be used are: - intervention in a prison; - immediately stop an attack without fatally harming the aggressor; - during the supervision of a person in danger; - the execution of an emergency plan during hostage-taking or a Fort Chabrol pending the arrival of the special units; - to control a person who wants to hurt himself or another person. The use of an FN 303 or similar weapon shall be subject to the following conditions: - the use of this weapon is permitted only by personnel who have received specialized training; - it is imperative that there is always an administrative follow-up, i.e. inform the Minister of the Interior when the weapon has been used; - security measures must be taken for the storage of this weapon; - in the case of use in a prison, there is a systematic report with the prison medical service after the use of an FN 303 or similar weapon; - the writing of an official report by a doctor, even if apparently the prisoner was not injured or injured by the use of the FN 303 or a similar weapon. The authorisation granted shall be subject to regular training and training of the staff members to whom it has been granted.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic296x.u133	It is only special units that use this weapon.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic296x.u134	Yes, it is my responsibility to see, in the circumstances defined, whether this meets the criteria and I can authorize the use of this weapon.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic296x.u135	And what about the Armaments Commission? Has it given its consent to the use of this weapon?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic296x.u136	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic296x.u137	Good. Thank you for your answers, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic296x.u138	Thank you all for being here. Thank you, Minister, for your answers. Debates of the European Parliament Question No 77, by Mr Dispa 7775 and No. Mr Vanvelthoven's 7811 will be converted into written questions. I wish everyone a Merry Christmas and New Year's vacation.
