ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic211x.u1	Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I propose that we begin our work. Given the large number of questions, I will ask everyone to respect the time limits.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic211x.u2	Madam Minister, obesity will become more and more a problem in the future, including among children and young people. These young people have often already followed an intensive programme to work on their problem. They do not have any choice, because a stomach reduction is not paid back until 18 years old for people with a BMI of 40 or more. Many teenagers suffer psychologically from their obesity. It is therefore important to work multidisciplinaryly with these young people and not only to tackle their obesity but also to work in other areas. Madam Secretary, I would like to ask you a few specific questions. Teenagers with obesity can go to the Zeepreventorium in De Haan today. How many teenagers are accompanied there every year? I'd like to get an overview. Are there similar institutions where young people can go to obesity? If so, how many and where? Young people with obesity often have other problems, for example psychologically. The importance of guidance by a multidisciplinary team is therefore at issue. Are you taking measures to encourage such guidance? Are you taking measures to get parents and doctors to cooperate with other aid workers? Will you be able to investigate stomach reduction for teenagers with a BMI of 40 or more from 16 years of age?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic211x.u3	Madam Secretary, my questions are in line with those of Mr Demon. I think we should be very careful with this problem. However, we note that some young people are severely obsessed. I have been in contact with a specialist in the field this week, a doctor at the UZ Leuven, who says that there are also cardiovascular problems in the field of comorbidity. Especially when young people are full-grown, two or three years are lost up to the age of 18 to be able to act effectively. Madam Minister, in the media you have already referred to the results at international level which are not very satisfactory and you have said that you want to wait and see. This week, through the Belgian Assiocation of Obesity, I received the results of a project that runs in the United States, where 900 severely obese young people between 11 and 19 years of age are accompanied after they have been subjected to bariatric surgery. One immediately sees a very strong decrease in their BMI and also the co-morbidity is falling very strongly. So I think we should consider whether this can be considered for these young people. As Mr Demon also says, this should not be done in isolation. It is a way of life to which there is also a very important psychological aspect. That is why I call for a multidisciplinary approach. I am not arguing here to pay back everything globally and to set up global routes. However, I am convinced, Madam Minister, that an individual and a multidisciplinary approach and how best to deal with this can be of benefit to the small group that is very obsessive today. I would have liked to have had your reaction.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic211x.u4	Madam President, Madam Minister, since there are many questions on the agenda, I will not repeat what my fellow Members have already said. I share their concerns about the multidisciplinary aspect of the approach. My fellow Members have referred to certain investigations. However, contrary opinions can also be heard in the scientific world. Stomach reduction would not help at all, diabetes would certainly not disappear, and the psychic suffering is currently under-treated. So I have the following questions for you. Will you work with the fellow Members of the Länder on the scientific recommendations for overweight children, paying particular attention to this psychological suffering? Do you agree that weight problems are not always the most important parameter, but the condition or fitness? I have not yet heard my fellow Members say anything about this. What is your opinion on stomach reduction? That storm hasn't settled yet. Are you in favour or against, and why? Will your working group on sugar syrup also pay extra attention to the specific situation of children and adolescents who are obese?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic211x.u5	Colleagues, the RIZIV has a rehabilitation agreement with the Zeepreventorium in De Haan for the treatment of children and young people with a chronic disease. One of those chronic diseases is morbid obesity. Estimates, based on reports published by the centre, suggest that of the 200 available beds, 120 beds, 60%, are occupied by obese patients. As an average stay lasts more than one year, the number of obesity patients is almost 200. However, some of these patients also have a different condition and are therefore subject to another group due to their comorbidity and their other diagnosis. There is a similar center in Wallonia, namely Clairs Vallons in Ottignies. Of the 130 beds there, 40 are for obesity patients. Based on the data provided by the administration, there is currently no indication of increasing the capacity of existing centres or setting up additional centres. A few months ago, the administration asked the two centres concerned to draw up a joint longitudinal evaluation procedure in order to measure, as far as possible, the effects of such rehabilitation, the outcome of such rehabilitation, in the medium and longer term. After all, the stocking is not finished with a one-year stay in such a centre. These children must also be followed multidisciplinaryly. The treatments in these centres are already multidisciplinary in themselves, taking much account of the psychosocial problem. Health insurance aims to continuously evolve and adapt to the recommendations of the international scientific literature. This effort also applies to the time limit for bariatric surgical operations, where most studies still do not recommend the intervention of minors, not least because young people have to be able to deal with it so drastically that their bodies will change, so attention is paid to the fact that children must be ready for such surgery. That's another thing than to say that nothing should happen before a younger person is 18 years old. However, it is important to conduct the discussions on bariatic surgery on the basis of scientific literature. This literature contains a large number of studies in which there is a call for bariatric surgery, in some cases even under the age of 18 years, but also the emphasis is always placed on the risk derivatives and the consequences of these interventions. In this context, the RIZIV has for some time been organising meetings with the important interlocutors in the surgical treatment of obesity. We have two objectives. The first objective is to improve the framework of obesity surgery, regardless of the patient's age. This indeed requires a multidisciplinary approach, but the stocking is not finished with performing an intervention. The second objective is to ease the conditions for reimbursement of surgery in order to take the scientific recommendation into account as closely as possible. So it's a relatively new area. The RIZIV plays briefly on the ball. Better safe than sorry. We are very careful especially when it comes to underage children.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic211x.u6	Madam Secretary, thank you for your efforts. I know the approach is multidisciplinary. Children sometimes suffer from obesity in primary school. In my question, I was talking about an operation from 16 years old, not younger. Madam Secretary, I urge you to look at other investigations as well. Mrs Muylle also refers to it. I ask you to seriously examine whether you do not see any possibility of reimbursement from 16 years of age.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic211x.u7	Madam Minister, I fully agree with you when you say that this is a new area where more and more cases will be identified. International studies also show that the group is growing. Hoping in your answer is that you say that the RIZIV succeeds this closely. I suppose in the contacts between RIZIV and university centres for real medical reasons, the RIZIV is also looking for solutions to do so. I am convinced that there are often medical reasons for doing this at the age of 16 or 17 years. Surgeons also tell me that one or two years are often lost by waiting until the age of 18. I understand that we have to be careful. I also understand that RIZIV is following this closely. I conclude from your answer that the best multidisciplinary approach for young people will be examined on a case-by-case basis. If an intervention is needed, I believe that this is part of an overall approach.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic211x.u8	Madam Minister, I share your view that there is a need to be very careful about this. I do not share the view of my fellow Members that this should be facilitated from the age of 16, especially for girls who may subsequently become pregnant, given the negative studies that have recently appeared. You are talking about a multidisciplinary and comprehensive approach. What I haven't heard is that we need to bet a lot more on fitness, exercise, fitness. I would like to stress this point.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic211x.u9	Madam President, Minister, with some caution I am asking a question in this Committee on Health, of which I have not eaten cheese. However, I was woken up by the story of my housekeeper whose daughter, Sofie, could only be helped by cannabis-based medicines. That was, quite frankly, the reason for this question. A few weeks after the submission of the question, six or seven weeks ago, you announced measures regarding the admission of cannabis-based medicines. I have no doubt that you made that decision on the basis of my question, for which I am grateful. Specifically, it is the medicine Bedrolite, based on cannabidiol. That medicine would already be allowed in the Netherlands and in the United States. In certain circumstances, this could be the last resort for children suffering from severe epilepsy. Madam Secretary, what is the state of play on this medicine? How will you deal with its use? Will it or will it not be repaid?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic211x.u10	Mr Terwingen, you are always welcome to this committee, you know that. Cannabis is internationally regulated as a narcotic by the UN Convention of 1961. The Convention provides, inter alia, that the production of cannabis can only be authorised for medicinal purposes, i.e. on medical prescription, and for scientific purposes such as laboratory research and clinical trials. Moreover, in order to allow cannabis production, a government must set up a special agency to define the necessary modalities. To date, the Belgian government has neither the intention nor the capacity to set up such a cannabis agency in accordance with the provisions of the Convention. Moreover, according to Belgian legislation, the delivery of cannabis for medicinal purposes is not permitted in Belgium. The recent KB has indeed brought about change. With regard to Bedrolite, I can tell you that it is not a finished medicinal product which can be commercialised after a marketing authorisation has been issued. It's actually a variant of the cannabis plant. If it is a medicinal product, it could take a different course, because from the moment a medicinal product is registered by the competent authorities, a pharmaceutical company can also place the medicinal product on the market and, where appropriate, apply for its reimbursement through the well-known route of the Commission on Medication Medicines. The latter evaluates the dossier submitted, taking into account different data, such as results from clinical studies and scientific literature. The price requested and the budgetary impact will also be reviewed. The final decision on the possibility of reimbursement and the modalities is taken by me on the basis of the proposal from the Committee on Medicinal Products. Unfortunately, the medicine you mentioned has not been registered as a medicine. I assume that there is still a lot of research going on in this area. This is also why the KB can be supplemented so that it can be used for any drug based on cannabinoids. However, consideration should be given to the required safety, efficacy and conduct of the necessary studies. The medicine Sativex has gone through this procedure and is currently available in the pharmacy.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic211x.u11	Madam Secretary, the safety of medicines is by definition very important. Our party has always supported the medical use of cannabis. I believe that Mrs Muylle has always defended this in that way. I note that there is still a certain procedure to be followed for this specific medicine. At present, the parents concerned are already getting the cure in Maastricht. It's that simple. Apparently, they'll depend on it for a while, because it's a drug that helps Sofie. However, I understand that certain routes must be followed in order to ensure the safety of medicines. Thank you for your clear answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic211x.u12	Madam President, Minister, as we know, tuberculosis is caused by a bacterium (Mycobacterium tuberculosis) that most often affects the lungs. It spreads from person to person by air when people with pulmonary tuberculosis cough, sneeze or spit. Tuberculosis can be treated and avoided. Tuberculosis is present all over the world. In 2013, the largest number of new cases of tuberculosis were recorded in South-East Asia and the Western Pacific Region, accounting for 56 per cent of new cases worldwide. However, Africa has the largest proportion of new cases per capita, with more than 280 cases per 100,000 population in 2013. In our country, it would appear that this is a rather rare phenomenon because of the large number of tests carried out, particularly in schools, as well as the quality of care. This question was tabled a few weeks ago. She referred to a current fact, since a 14-year-old girl recently died of this disease in Herzele, Eastern Flanders. One of his fellow students responded positively to the screening test. The results are also doubtful for two other students, according to the Flemish Agency for Health and Care, which spoke at a press conference on Wednesday. All of them will have to be followed medically. Tests carried out on other students in the class as well as teachers have proved to be negative, but analyses will have to be carried out again in two months. Minister, can you tell us exactly how many cases of tuberculosis have been recorded over the last ten years in our country? How many children between the ages of 0 and 14 were involved? Have any specific measures been taken as a result of these events?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic211x.u13	Dear colleague, the consolidated register of FARES (the Respiratory Illness Fund) and Vlaamse vereniging respiratory voor gezondheidszorg in tuberculosisbestrijding, in its March 2015 report, published data up to 2013. In 2013, 981 cases of tuberculosis were reported, the lowest number in history. The incidence of tuberculosis in Belgium was 8.8 per 100,000 inhabitants in 2013, the lowest incidence ever achieved. The decline in recent years is continuing. The incidence decreased in Belgium from 12.8 to 8.8 between 2000 and 2013, which means less than 30% of cases; this is important. Cases between 0 and 14 years of age decreased from 4 to 3.1 cases per 100,000 inhabitants. In absolute numbers, tuberculosis was diagnosed in 59 children in 2013. The Flemish Agency Zorg en Gezondheid is competent to take appropriate measures, such as organising the examination of contacts and collecting data on the results of the treatment. In particular, the Agency makes available on its website guidelines for the management of tuberculosis. I would remind you that the Royal Decree of 10 March 2005 laying down the conditions for the granting of compulsory sickness and disability insurance in a particular model of benefits and payment for tuberculosis treatment in Belgium guarantees that treatment of tuberculosis is free of charge. Patients infected with susceptible germs receive treatment that is fully reimbursed by the health insurance. Patients who are not in order with their mutuality may call on CPAS as part of direct or urgent medical assistance. Those who cannot rely on health insurance through mutual insurance or the CPAS can benefit from the support of BELTA-TBnet, which is the parent structure of FARES and VRGT.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic211x.u14	Minister, thank you for that answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic211x.u15	Question No 4538 by Mr Eric Massin is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic211x.u16	Madam Secretary, the Volt VRT programme revealed that some surgeons do not take it so closely with the conditions. I'm not surprised. I refer to my previous question on an early and first-line approach to obesity. Madam Secretary, are you aware of such practices? Are you taking any action against these practices or are you planning to take action against them? In reply to my previous question, you said that insurance companies are checking that the conditions are effectively met. Isn't that gonna happen? How come there are so many cases of fraud? Are you considering adjusting the criteria for reimbursement? After all, many of the patients would be better helped with guidance and support from dieticians and possibly psychologists, as I indicated in my previous question. I also mentioned that it is very cynical that people have to derail their weight even further before they are entitled to a refund in order to do something about it. So I'm not surprised that doctors go along with that story. In your reply, you also referred to a study. In the meantime, how far is it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic211x.u17	Madam Minister, my question is on the same subject, following an episode of Volt on A few weeks ago. I am concerned about this, because in Belgium we are trying to ensure a good and safe health system. For example, in order to be eligible for the reimbursement of a stomach reduction or gavage, a patient should normally meet strict conditions. There are certain criteria. Among other things, the patient must have tried a diet. If this is not possible, an intervention may be considered. The patient must have at least a BMI of 40 prior to surgery. In patients with concomitant problems such as diabetes or high blood pressure, it can be done from a BMI of 35. A stomach reduction or ring may be medically justifiable, but of course it should not become an easy solution to quickly lose weight. I do not, of course, have to explain to you that it is a very difficult procedure, Madam Minister, and therefore the ultimate step after all the other slopes were followed in order to lose weight. In Volt's episode it became clear that not all doctors comply with the conditions to perform such an intervention on the stomach. I do understand that the pressure of patients is sometimes enormous, especially in the summer periods. I've experienced that in my practice, too. However, I am also convinced that doctors are really mature enough to point out to certain patients that surgery is not always the best solution. According to the TV reportage, a number of doctors are still cheating. It is perhaps a harsh word.. with the data of their patients, in order to be able to meet the conditions that Belgium imposes for reimbursement. Not only do they put patients at risk, it is also a bypass of the funding systems that are incorporated into the health insurance system. Madam Minister, do you have any indications or figures in the meantime that the reported abuse of stomach surgery could be relative? Do you have any idea how you can better control, sanction and certainly restrict the practice if there are actual abuses?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic211x.u18	Madam President, I am surprised at the fact that an episode of Volt, which I do not think was a scientifically based reportage but rather a fairly sensational programme, leads to questions, when we always say that we consider scientific support to be very important. Anyway, I didn't see the program. We in the administration certainly have no knowledge of any manifest fraud in relation to the BMI of patients who are eligible for bariatric surgery. Of course, we can't be wrong about that. There are rules. We can't know if those rules are being observed by the doctors. I should hope so. We don't know if they're being observed by the patients. I should hope so. Because of the reporters, I think I already know. On the other hand one can drink a liter of water before standing on the scale. This changes 0.3 kg per m2 to your BMI. So one will have to drink a lot of liters of water to get to a BMI of 40. There are means of checking whether this is indeed happening. An application must be made to the insurance institutions. They can check and verify the statements of the surgeon if there is a system. The means of control shall also be used effectively. People are thoughtful. The insurance institutions check whether the patient's real weight is given up. Therefore, we do not plan any project to adapt the nomenclature; the RIZIV closely monitors the problem and is alert to publications on selection criteria for patients in the literature. However, patients who do not fall within the selection criteria are recommended to opt for the other existing multidisciplinary approach to the treatment of obesity. If the criteria are not met, the non-healing measures are preferred. The nomenclature confirms that position. I repeat that things are evolving and we are following them. I believe that we should be careful not to break our minds about such programmes too long, even though it is worth examining them.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic211x.u19	However, it is symptomatic that patients should recover to be eligible. I have not yet received an answer to my question as to what progress has been made on the study you referred to at the time, and on the usefulness of reimbursement of a consultation with a dietician or psychologist for guidance. I will come back to that later.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic211x.u20	It is true that television broadcasts must be watched. I have also seen in the past that they can be extremely coloured and that they are very focused. On the other hand, I also know from my experience that, especially when it comes to aesthetics, it is often about the balance between health and aesthetics, which is often worked in line with what is and must not be done, not only by doctors but also by pharmacists. I have seen enough of this when, for example, leaning cocktails were prescribed. Sometimes I wondered where the respect for deontology was. However, I am concerned, because there was work with hidden cameras and so it turned out that there was effective.... this does not mean that all doctors sin about it.. people wrote down a lower weight or another height. You say the insurance companies carry out checks on that. Well, that reassures me. I am not in line with Mrs Van Camp, namely that the nomenclature needs to be adapted. The nomenclature is correct and well established. Above a certain BMI, this becomes effectively dangerous. In that sense, I would not change anything at all. I'd just stay vigilant.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic211x.u21	Question No 4613 by Mrs Hufkens and question No 4655 by Mr Demon are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic211x.u22	Madam Minister, I refer back to a question I asked in May on the opinion of the High Health Council on HPV vaccination. You said that the advice had been delayed. The advice appears to be there in the meantime, and that is why I would like to ask you whether the Federal Working Party has already had the opportunity to consider the recommendations of the High Health Council. Have the hearings taken place yet? What is the content of the HPV vaccination recommendations in both girls and boys? Will that vaccination be provided free of charge for certain groups, girls and boys? If so, which one? What are the benefits of vaccination found in the short, medium and long term? Were outcomes such as genital warts and cancer included? Which outcome parameters were taken into account in concrete terms? Will the policy for girls remain as it has been since the 2008 Recommendation, namely a free provision through schools? Will vaccination be extended to boys?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic211x.u23	Mrs Van Camp, has something happened somewhere because in my cabinet there has been no advice from the Supreme Health Council on HPV vaccination? Did you get this? I'd be curious. They told us that the opinion was not yet ready. They expect it in the second half of this year, as I said earlier. I'll wait for the advice. If I had it, I could indeed answer you. Did you get your hands on it physically?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic211x.u24	(...). [[Not containing micro]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic211x.u25	We have been informed and they have indicated that the opinion will not be available until the second half of this year. There seems to be some confusion in this regard. If the advice is there, I want it. The High Health Council tells me the advice isn't here yet, and you say you have it in your possession. I want to clear this up. We really called them. Normally such advice is always sent automatically, but this can already be forgotten. I will take your questions with me for the moment I receive the advice effectively.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic211x.u26	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic211x.u27	Madam Minister, my first series of questions concerns the standard bestaffining which is still expressed in nurses per number of beds. Some corrections are made for the activity and the care gravity, but the general principle is still a bestaffining per responsible bed. This is in contrast to the fact that the turn-over determines the workload. The workload is also determined by planning and predictability, by aligning bestaffing with the actual workload on the work floor rather than by providing a fixed number of nurses per shift per day, as is now generally the case. This can be achieved through management techniques. In this way, the number of beds can be reduced, while patients' turn-over increases and nursing pressure decreases. The results of hospitals that went into business with such consultants are amazing. At present, hospitals bear the full cost of this. Such consultants also recommend co-purchases and thus achieve savings of millions for hospitals. In the light of the networks and the cooperation that we would like to encourage in hospitals, such consultancy could be a powerful lever. It is a good incentive for hospitals to work together to increase patients' turnover as well as to reduce staff workload and also cost savings. Madam Minister, are you familiar with the concept and such consultancy agencies that accompany such management improvements? Do you see bread in improving the management of hospitals, especially in the light of the cooperation and the networks that we want to promote? In what sense would they possibly fit into the pilot projects you are planning? Or are you considering using such consultants to support hospitals in their cooperation? What are the specific plans for the hospital funding reform on the part of nurses? Will you evolve further towards a turn-over-based bestaffin? In what way will this actually work? In what way is the care staff involved? When can we expect the outcome in concrete terms? My second series of questions deals with the approach to standards for hospitals. The reform of hospital funding is a work spread over many years. Can we deduce from this that the standard besuffering will also be left behind for years to come? Or will you intervene more quickly there? When exactly? What is the specific timetable for this?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic211x.u28	Madam Minister, once again I will only say what has not been said by my colleague. So my question is about the turn-over in patients and the standards for nurses. Although this turn-over continues to increase, the number of nurses per number of beds decreases. That's not right, is it? How and in what time do you see this in your plans to reform hospital funding? Will you take this principle into account and put it first because it determines the working pressure more than the standard of the number of beds. I assume you're in agreement with the sector. Have professional associations of nurses given advice on this? I also asked you a question about this in the plenary session of 8 May. You then listed a number of measures, which I reiterated in my question. However, this framework does not always ensure that there are more nurses around the patient's bed. How will you follow this up?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic211x.u29	Mrs Van Camp and Mrs Dedry, thank you for the attention that should go to the nurse bestaffining in hospitals. Over the years, this has led to a number of difficulties. I would like to break down two things: on the one hand the role of the government and on the other hand the role of management in the hospitals themselves. As a government and as a competent minister, it is my responsibility to ensure that there are sufficient resources and an accurate framework to deliver the quality of care. That's what we're doing. Through the reorientation of the hospital's role in the care landscape, we hope to free up resources to make better use of them, for example in order to increase nurse bestaffining in some services with a high turnover, where it is difficult to work. It is already possible that, in addition to the nurse bestaffining financed from responsible beds through the B2 of hospital funding, and in the BFM, additional mandates for mobile shifts, for example, are already being financed. These mandates can be used by hospitals in areas with higher needs for care. How the nurse bestaffing is used in the various departments and then by shift a day is something for the management of the hospital itself. The government cannot regulate this in detail at the department level, because that is a different matter for each hospital, for each service, for each shift. The same applies to the use or not of the help of consultants to optimise hospital management, a kind of HR consultants, but really medically targeted. The decision to hire or use these people's services must be taken by hospital management itself. I assume that there is sufficient professional expertise available to judge whether staff planning models can be drawn up internally, whether this is better done in collaboration with other hospitals, or whether external consultants are included. So that's really a decision of hospital management itself. With regard to the involvement of healthcare staff in the reform of hospital funding, I would also refer to the plan of action, which provides for consultation with the hospitals' umbrella organisations through the consultation group, as well as bilateral consultations with other stakeholders, such as the nurses' organisations and the representatives of the social sector. It is not desirable to raise the standards without the necessary financial resources being allocated. So there must also be a budget for it. That budget does not exist at the moment, so we need to work in a different way. We need to use the resources smarter. That also explains the two slopes in the plan of approach. Firstly, there are pilot projects, in which hospitals can use alternative forms of organisation, so that more resources are available to better target the remaining acute beds and also to organise the outpatient care after discharge from the hospital in a different way. This week, the call for the presentation of theme candidates to hospitals leaves. Even before the summer holidays, a first theme will be launched on which the hospitals can formulate proposals and after the summer there will be more themes. There is therefore a strong dialogue and maximum input from the sector. Secondly, there is the reorientation of the role of the hospital in the care landscape. The necessary analyses and studies are also being launched to this end. For the timing of this, I refer again to the plan of action. Over the years, nursing has been significantly less used per number of patients. This is not only felt by the patient, but also, of course, by the nursing staff who experience increasing pressure during work. According to estimates, an average of ten nurses per 100 patients are needed, while we have about eight. We are not really able to record this figures, but we do know that there is an additional burden on nursing staff. We are working as quickly as possible, but it must have been carried by the sector. I've already had a lot of conversations with hospital managers and financial directors. There is a whole dynamic of staff management going on there. It will be necessary to ensure that the working conditions for nurses are improved again, while they have only deteriorated in recent years.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic211x.u30	Madam Minister, it is good that you are aware of the situation, but it is worrying that it will take years to improve. You say that it is the role of the government to free up funds and create a framework. The role of hospital management is certainly on an individual level. A facilitation can be linked to it, especially in the context of networking and interhospital cooperation, for which a hospital manager is not necessarily a requesting party. There is still a great future for this. In a much shorter period, it could meet the very high needs of nurses and healthcare professionals in hospitals.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic211x.u31	I'm telling you, it's gonna take years. I don't know where you're getting that. We are already in the process of launching pilot projects. Pilot projects will be evaluated in the autumn and can then be implemented on a larger scale. We can't go any faster. It must also be well-founded, because there are services in hospitals that need to be insured. Some say we're moving too fast. Today an oncologist said they're not ready for chemotherapy at home. Many others contradict that. For some we are moving far too fast and for others we are going far too slow, so we will keep up the pace.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic211x.u32	You say that we must also learn to use the resources smarter, Madam Secretary. I fully agree with you on that. However, you did not say anything about the principle of the turn-over. It would be desirable to include the turn-over as a criterion of working pressure, which used to be lower, in the thinking exercise.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic211x.u33	Madam Secretary, not only the nurses in the hospitals are having a hard time. That is also the case for the home nurses. The previous legislature was systematically treated as a stepmother. Despite the ever-increasing demand for complex acute care and, on the other hand, heavier chronic care, the home care sector is most affected by savings. Currently, 62 percent of existing fees no longer cover the costs and the home nurse instructs some patients to take care of them. While the average wage costs in Belgium are 42 to 43 euros per hour, the fees paid by home nurses are still based on 35 euros per hour. The backlog of home care on the index was already 8% and the general non-indexation of fees now shows a deficit of 10%. The index jump is needed to restore the competitiveness of our businesses, but home nursing has been lagging behind due to the stepmotherly treatment and savings over the past decades. Our contacts with the sector show that frustration is increasing, because it makes it impossible to provide quality care and because home nurses feel undervalued. In our view, it should be possible to substantially re-evaluate home care and its role and thus achieve substantial savings at the same time, as the number of hospitalisations and withdrawals is reduced. Madam Secretary, do you share that view? What plans are there to upgrade home nursing in order to reduce beds and stimulate home care, including in your pilot projects? When can we expect it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic211x.u34	With the increase in the number of patients with chronic diseases and the ageing of our population, the role of the nurse and home care will indeed become more important. What exactly the additional tasks for the home nurse could involve, we also hope to get input from the sector, including through pilot projects. For your question about pilot projects and the role of the home nurse, I would refer you to the plan of action to reform hospital funding, which clearly sets out the principles and timing set out. The plan of approach explicitly provides that pilot projects should be based on proper coordination and coordination between the outpatient care and hospital care, on transmural care and also on the principle that the providers of care in the pilot projects agree, preferably in close consultation, on who will provide integrated care for which patient groups, within the framework of a network. For the projects between different types of facilities, such as hospital, home nurse, general practitioner, doctors of different disciplines and rehabilitation setting, the focus is on the constructive cooperation between the various forms of care, with mutual respect for the input and expertise of each healthcare provider. All this must be organised with the main aim of serving the patient's interests and wishes even better. Whether the care is provided by one or the other nurse, it is about being the most appropriate, competent nurse, necessary for the care needs of the individual patient. This can be a provider from the hospital as well as from a home care service. The caregivers concerned will receive a budget guarantee for a time-limited period, simultaneously with their mission to optimize care, which is defined through concrete objectives. It is intended that the budget will be used differently and that the budget will be used to achieve better quality care through other, more efficient forms of care. Indeed, evaluation criteria will be laid down for pilot projects. In some cases, an evaluation should be carried out quickly and in others only after two years, so that it can be established whether the new organisation and funding deliver the intended results. After that, a wide-ranging implementation can be undertaken. There is therefore room to evolve to a different standard in hospitals based on the turnover and to confirm the organizational methods in the future financing modalities. A framework within which projects can be submitted is currently being finalised. There is consultation with the sector and the Länder. After that, the first calls will be made. The initiative to submit a proposal may be based on all the parties concerned, not only from the hospitals. Such an initiative can therefore also be based on the patient groups concerned. Some patient groups I take the example of stoma patients after all, know the problem very well. They may also include projects which only include a type of care provision, and I am thinking, for example, of hospitals or the home care sector. If it is only about a type of care provision, it may be discussed later. For the moment, we are talking about large groups of patients. There are also rare conditions that require special treatments. I think of epidermal bullosa where children can be nursed at home. We will come to this problem later, because we will now look at how things are going with the more frequent diseases.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic211x.u35	I can only hope that, as in the case of nurses in hospitals, the pilot projects will also be provided with the necessary resources to raise the fees for home care.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic211x.u36	That's very sweet! I hope to get your party's support in the next budget talks. When I hear you here and at the same time think of all the savings your party still wants to make in health care, I am concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic211x.u37	As far as the remuneration of nurses is concerned, I can tell you that we have been very clear about this from the beginning. For us, it must not be about blind savings, but about short-term savings and investment that are recouped in the long term. If we are committed to achieving a sufficient standard of living in hospitals, we will have clear payback effects. I have already asked you questions about this in plenary. I've already had those numbers delivered to you. Each euro spent on hospital bestaffining is paid back in the long term in proportion to 75 euro cents. That's not where the savings are. There is much more to be done in other sectors, but not with nurses.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic211x.u38	Question No 4697 by Mrs de Coster-Bauchau is transformed into a written question. We come to question No 4725 by Mrs Anne Dedry on "access to health care for migrants".
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic211x.u39	Madam President, I asked for this question to be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic211x.u40	It would be nice to say it before, ma'am.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic211x.u41	That's what happened.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic211x.u42	Oral question No 4725 by Mrs Anne Dedry is therefore transformed into a written question. Oral question No 4742 by Mrs Renate Hufkens is also transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic211x.u43	Madam Minister, I would like to take stock with you of the IZOM project, in particular its eIZOM aspect. Thousands of Belgians benefit from the IZOM cross-border cooperation agreement between Belgium, the Netherlands and Germany, which entered into force on 1 January 2007. The aim of this collaboration is to ease the administrative formalities for patients at the "Euregio Meuse-Rhin", who use specialist doctors across our borders. This cooperation agreement provides, inter alia, for the use of Form E112+. However, on 1 January 2013, the Christian Mutuality of Verviers-Eupen launched a new project: eIZOM. It is an exclusive collaboration between the latter and the German mutuality AOK Rheinland/Hamburg. In Belgium, the service rendered therefore applies only to the affiliates of the Christian Mutualité de Verviers. An electronic card has been designed, allowing the German specialist to see if the patient is entitled to benefits. The invoice for medical care provided in Germany can thus be sent by the German mutuality AOK to the INAMI, for treatment by the Belgian sickness and disability insurance. Such administrative simplification is obviously commendable, given that both the patient and the provider can benefit from it. It is, on the other hand, very regrettable that this service, which should be offered under compulsory health insurance, is only valid for those insured with a certain mutual benefit. One conclusion is that this project has not been ratified by the competent bodies in Belgium, notwithstanding the fact that Article 8 of the IZOM Cooperation Agreement explicitly requires such approval: "In Belgium, it is compulsory, on pain of nullity, to have this cooperation agreement approved, together with any subsequent amendments, by the national public authorities responsible for compulsory insurance for health care". In February 2014, I had already asked your predecessor about the matter. For the latter, it seemed recommended that its administration take the necessary measures to ensure that the Christian Mutuality of Verviers-Eupen and the Christian Mutuality of Liège suspend the introduction of the eIZOM map. An in-depth evaluation should address the lack of transparency regarding the mobility of cross-border patients and the communication of possible abuses in the implementation of the cooperation agreement, aimed at circumventing the provisions of the Belgian rules on the subject. Today, however, mutuality still offers the eIZOM service, and we did not get any information on the in-depth evaluation that had once been promised. Minister, my questions are as follows. Can you tell me where we are? Do you share your predecessor's analysis on the subject? If so, do you confirm that a service such as that offered by eIZOM must be able to apply to all Belgian insured persons who fall within the scope of the IZOM cooperation agreement? Can you also confirm that an electronic card can replace the official document E112+? Otherwise, what measures do you intend to take to end the unequal treatment of Belgian insured persons in the border region?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic211x.u44	Madam President, Ms Jadin, in the course of 2014, the administration informed the National Alliance of Christian Mutualities of the results of its analysis. The introduction of the eIZOM map as introduced by the Christian Mutuality of Liège and the Christian Mutuality of Verviers-Eupen is not in line with the IZOM collaboration agreement. It was also pointed out that the relaxation of access to cross-border healthcare through the IZOM collaboration agreement is part of compulsory health care insurance and cannot be an element of any internal competition between insurers, which is the case. This has never been and will never be the intention of the IZOM collaboration agreement. However, with reference to the information in our possession, it appears that the introduction of the eIZOM card has given rise to and continues to give rise to internal competition between insurers and discriminatory treatment of insured persons. As a result, the National Alliance of Christian Mutualities was asked to take the necessary urgent measures to force the Christian Mutuality of Liège and the Christian Mutuality of Verviers-Eupen to withdraw the eIZOM card. A letter was sent on 28 May 2014 and a reminder was sent on 1 October 2014. At the same time, INAMI sent a letter to the National Intermutualist College requesting an overall evaluation of the IZOM project, including the EIZOM map. Following your question, I took this old file, dating from before I arrived in the department, in my hands to find a definitive solution. I will not fail to insist with the Christian Mutuality of Liège and the Christian Mutuality of Verviers-Eupen that they respect the request of my administration. I also asked my administration to prepare an in-depth evaluation of the IZOM collaboration agreement. This in-depth evaluation must address the lack of transparency on the mobility of cross-border patients, as well as information on possible abuses of the IZOM collaboration agreement in order to circumvent the provisions of Belgian legislation on compulsory insurance and take into account the amended regulatory framework at European level on access to cross-border healthcare.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic211x.u45	Thank you very much, minister, not only for these very specific answers, but also for giving me an update on the situation. The fact that some mutual societies are competing with others, in a way that I consider unfair, is a very regrettable fact. I think we need to make up for the shortcomings found. I would like to tell you, Minister, that the IZOM project is a good initiative. I will therefore wait with you for the outcome of the evaluation. I will of course come back to you in due course.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic211x.u46	Minister, as of November 26, 2014, I was asking you about the treatment of a rare disease for which no treatment has been developed to date, i.e., ichthyosis. In your reply, you explained to me that the working group on dermatological products for chronic dermatological conditions had submitted its report to the Insurance Committee in July 2013. In this report, the working group analyzed the cost and quality problems associated with local dermatological treatments of common use for chronic dermatological conditions. As a result of this analysis, he proposed a series of solutions to improve the quality of care and reduce the costs incurred by patients for local dermatological treatments. Minister, at the time, you informed me that this report had been forwarded to the Pharmaceutical Technical Council and the Federal Agency for Drugs and Health Products for review. You also stated that a draft package for dermatological products was almost finalized and could enter into force in 2015. What is apparent from the review of the report by the decision-making bodies that you requested? What is the status of the draft package for dermatological products? Has it ever been developed? If not, when is it planned?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic211x.u47	Mr Senesael, progress has been made but not enough. A draft royal decree was drawn up by the Technical Pharmaceutical Council and sent to the Insurance Committee of INAMI. I wanted to review this text because there were still too many administrative burdens for patients and healthcare providers, while, as you know, our reform is also aimed at reducing administrative burdens. Indeed, we believe that adding administrative tasks for patients and healthcare providers to the new projects should be avoided. This text will be reviewed by the Technical Pharmaceutical Committee in the presence of a representative of the firm. It will then, as usual, be sent to the Insurance Committee and then follow the usual procedure. I think it is necessary to take the time to reduce the administrative burden on patients and healthcare providers. It is impossible to foresee the date of publication of this Order or its effective date, but we will work as quickly as possible. It is a pity that he did not understand, because from now on we are asking for a simpler administrative burden for all the new measures. We'll have to do it again.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic211x.u48	Madam Chair, Minister, thank you for your answer. You believe that the administrative burden for patients and care providers should not be excessive. I share your view on this. On the other hand, slowness sometimes exasperates me! Last year, I ran six hours in a row to defend the ichthyosis project. I hope I don't have to run six hours every year to defend this project. This year, I will run six hours in a row for autism. In any case, I hope that we will move forward on this project because the patients with this disease are really eager and eagerly awaiting your decisions, Minister. On their behalf, I thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic211x.u49	Question No 4928 by Mrs Nahima Lanjri is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic211x.u50	Minister, on June 23, 2013, we passed a resolution to generalize public access to defibrillators. The resolution contained a number of objectives. I have three specifically. The first was to establish a cadastre of defibrillators accessible to the public in 2013. The second was to locate the public areas where these defibrillators could be installed, certainly those where there is a significant distance between the population and hospitals. Finally, in accordance with this resolution, it was necessary to identify, in cooperation with the Communities, the provinces and even the communes, the places requiring the setting up of this type of apparatus, the possible subsidies which could be granted to these different entities, and even, indeed, to sports clubs. Could you tell us if this defibrillator cadastre was realized? Or is it being implemented? Have any conclusions been drawn? According to you, according to the levels of power, are initiatives taken by the latter to help the communes and sports clubs set up this type of device?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic211x.u51	Mr Thiéry, I can confirm that there is a cadastre for the external automatic defibrillators (DEA). The list can be found on the FPS Public Health website. This list is updated monthly and now has about 5,700 records. It was also found that the cadastre is not really well powered, that not all AEDs are recorded, and that administrative tracking of a registered device is not always optimal either. For example, in the case of a move, the cadastre is not always notified of the change of place of availability. We are looking at how the reliability of the cadastre could be increased, as you mentioned well in your question, in order to help the population in the event of heart disease. In my commune there is a new gym but I still have to ask the person in charge - my brother, in this case - if the new defibrillator has already been registered. We now have several, also in all submunicipalities. I don't know if they've all been recorded in that land register yet. There's a lot more than 5,700. Not all of them are registered and removals are not always reported either.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic211x.u52	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. You say you've been confronted with the purchase of this type of device in your community. Did you have the opportunity to obtain subsidies?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic211x.u53	We bought it ourselves, but it's not very expensive. It is a new recreational and sports hall that can accommodate 600 people. There is also one in the communal house, as well as in the other sports halls. We bought them on equity, but prices have fallen; it's like gsm!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic211x.u54	Madam Minister, the government agreement states that the introduction of an adapted social status for general practitioners and specialists in training will be examined. At the end of April, the VASO, a national association for doctors and specialists in training, issued a call for that amended statute to be implemented. This letter was co-signed by the VGSO. The High Council of Medical Specialists and GPs also supports the question raised there. The demand for an adapted statute is part of a broader demand not only to ensure the quality of training but also to further improve it. There are also issues on training which deserve our attention, for example ensuring a balanced balance in the time distribution between training and work, but also, and above all, providing sufficient placements and internship counsellors and adapting the recognition criteria for internship counsellors, as there are a lot of stories about this. Madam Secretary, you know the situation, of course. I may not have to convince you that a thorough evaluation is appropriate and that adjustments should be made where necessary. Good quality training is in everyone's interest. So I have a few questions. Have you already started an investigation into adapting the status of doctors in training? If so, what is the state of play? If not, when will you start? Not only with the double cohorts, but also in the other years, sufficient quality training places should be provided for the doctors in training. In what way are you going to optimize that? I'm talking about domestic places. How far is the work of the Supreme Court on listing incompletely used internships? Both the doctors in training and the Supreme Court see foreign internships as an opportunity to provide additional places. How do you intend to improve the support of these traineeships? The Supreme Court would work on an evaluation of the criteria for internship counsellors. Have you come up with any advice? When could that happen? In what way are possible internship counselors informed or recruited? How can they be better addressed and motivated? In other words, what measures are you going to take to ensure that the internships have sufficient time and space to accompany doctors in training in addition to their work as doctors?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic211x.u55	Minister, the Francophone and Dutch-speaking associations of medical specialists have addressed you, both for their social status and for the training and specializations that are going on for an ever longer period of time. In fact, trainees are over 30 years of age when they complete their training. It is therefore important that they be able to contribute to their pension when they are at the end of their career and have a more comprehensive social status than that established in 2007 or 2008. I would have liked to know your answer to this question, even if you have already expressed your support for their requests. But they have made another important request, that of being able to benefit, like general practitioners, from an intermediate structure of the ASBL type for the administrative management of all these internships, which is more complicated than for general practitioners, since there is a punctuity of specializations, of places of internship (university hospitals, peripheral hospitals), of different remunerations for the guards they perform according to the hospitals, for example. These differences are related to the complexity of the sector, but also to the inequitable situations between these trainees. Therefore, a structure that would manage the distribution of trainees, take over the administrative procedures for contributions, for INAMI funding, seems to me to be an interesting proposal. I wanted to know the answer to this request and whether work was under way on it. In 2018, we will end up with a double cohort of doctors. Internships will therefore have to be organised in a particularly dynamic way during these years, so that all students can carry out internships both in university hospitals and outlying hospitals or research work, perhaps abroad. Centralised management could guarantee the quality of training in these different dimensions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic211x.u56	Mrs Van Peel, Mrs Gerkens, in the general policy paper on health care, under point 3 announced that the introduction of an adapted social status would be examined. That research is currently under way, but given its complexity it will take some time. Your proposal to include years of study in career calculation will also be considered. You will understand that it will obviously have to be in line with recent changes, in particular the abolition of the diploma bonus. Indeed, we must work in sufficient depth. One element is already clear today: an adjustment of the social status will have important budgetary implications. There, we also have to do the calculations. I am able to inform you that a meeting was held with the Association of Medical Training Specialists (AMSF) on June 10. A meeting had previously been scheduled but could not take place as the MSFA had not been able to read the invitation sent by e-mail in time. We try to work without a lot of paper, but it seems that an electronic invitation is already easily lost on some people. We must also take that into account. So there's been a meeting. Another issue is the training of doctors. I believe that the social status and training, the problems of placements and the double cohort, should be seen separately. As far as training is concerned, priority should be given to monitoring the quality of professional training. For each discipline, the final competences that determine the training pathway must be defined. A rising autonomy is provided throughout the journey, with attention to transition phases, for the sake of the safety of care. The training pathways may involve a certain degree of variation, inter alia according to the candidate's interest, but efforts should be made to ensure a guaranteed, qualitative and complete training for each candidate, which presupposes a minimum degree of uniformity to be guaranteed. The High Council of Medical Specialists and GPs applies such an approach to updating the specific recognition criteria. At the moment they are reviewing these recognition criteria and giving advice on them, which then have to be translated into ministerial decisions for us. We check whether or not the current funding is sufficient for the efforts requested by the trainee master and the internship team. For reasons of training quality and candidate well-being, clearly identifiable mentoring and mentoring is indicated. There is also a need for regular training of trainee teachers of medical specialists in training, as is already the case for general practitioners at present. We will soon examine how to develop a realistic and efficient system for the support and evaluation of the quality of service of internships. We will also focus on this, because there is indeed a great difference in quality between internships for students. These concerns are also part of my recent request for advice of 11 May 2015 to the Supreme Court on the adaptation of the Ministerial Decision of 23 April 2014, which regulates the general criteria for recognition for medical specialists, internships masters and internships services. It regulates cross-cutting criteria for doctors-specialists. The same attention will be paid to regulations on the professional training of general practitioners. Indeed, there should be sufficient internships for the double cohort of 2018. The quality of education also remains one of our priorities. There is therefore a targeted investigation into the location of unsolicited or unutilised placements. As far as general practitioners are concerned, there seems to be a reserve of recognised internships, but it also needs to be further evaluated. As far as foreign traineeships are concerned, the Ministerial Decision of 23 April 2014 was already innovative for doctors-specialists in training. A Belgian candidate may, under certain conditions, go through a maximum of one third of the duration of his internship abroad. That is a difference from abroad, where the margin is much smaller. We think that is enough for the time being, but other adjustments are and course the route.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic211x.u57	Madam Minister, I thought it would still be going on, because it is indeed much more complex than it may seem at first sight. I am pleased that you have mentioned a few things and that you acknowledge that the need for quality in traineeships is very high. After all, we hear very different stories from the field, while it is still about the training of our doctors of tomorrow. That is certainly not insignificant. The same applies to the sufficient number of places, especially for the year with the double cohort, but also for the other years. At present, students are apparently forced to choose specific directions, purely on that basis, not just on the basis of needs, quotas or their own preferences. The choice is therefore made on the basis of which placement is still available. That's not the right evolution. We will certainly come back to the dossier in the future, because there is still a lot of work to be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic211x.u58	Minister, thank you also for your answer. I understand that an assessment is being made of the cost of an improved social status and that you expect further information on the criteria and the layout in order to allow for quality training. With your last comment on internships abroad, you join one of my concerns that is shared by these medical specialists candidates. In fact, their training may take different forms, but they must have the guarantee that everyone can complete part of their internship in a university hospital, in scientific research, and abroad to the extent that it can be a plus. In other words, everyone must have access to these different dimensions, which must also be of quality. You spoke of harmonization, but you did not mention the question of setting up a structure equivalent to that of general practitioners.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic211x.u59	Madam, I have said that there is also a need for regular training of trainee teachers of medical specialists in training, as is already the case for general practitioners. I am thinking of a structure similar to that available to general practitioners, the ICHO Interuniversity Centre, which works well. On the Flemish side, four universities have worked together to organise a two-year training course, which will, moreover, soon reach three years, after the seven years of study. You also know that resources are also allocated by INAMI. Here we are talking about no less than 12 million a year for the teachers of internships.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic211x.u60	When do you think I will be able to re-examine you for information about the answers you have received?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic211x.u61	I can't say anything about this right now. I asked a lot of advice from the Supreme Council. I have also entrusted a lot of work to the administrations. However, they have more to do than that. I ask them to work fast enough, but they still have to be given the time they need.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic211x.u62	In that case, I'll ask you again when you get back to school.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic211x.u63	Madam President, Minister, this question dates back to early June. At that time, the knowledge centre produced a report in the light of the evaluation of the internal geriatric liaison teams. As you know, your predecessor introduced the geriatric liaison teams widely in hospitals about a decade ago. These teams were set up for the geriatric approach of persons who did not end up in a G-bed, i.e. not in a specialized geriatric department. This was meant to make it possible for geriatric concerns to be properly followed in another bed. The report was critical in that despite the fact that the geriatric liaison teams in the field were considered very positive by the patients, it had to be found that the workload was enormous. The teams are often too small and very heterogeneous, although the convention is fairly clear. It is often the case that nurses and geriatrics are in charge, but physicists, dieticians, psychologists and logopedists do not get enough in these teams. The teams also come too little to the patient's bed and often draw conclusions based on reporting. The study also shows that there is a need for much more geriatric training and training of nurses and geriatrics. Involved people have too little geriatric education when they get to bed. The study then drew attention to the current shortage of geriatrics to strengthen these teams, which is not new. Moreover, they are not the best distributed under the nomenclature. In short, the report was quite critical, in the sense that an older person wants to have the best geriatric concerns in a hospital nowadays, then he or she must end up in a G-bed. If the elderly patient is not in a G-bed, the geriatric concerns leave something to be desired. Madam Secretary, you are aware of the study. What will you do with that? Will you correct some of this? In the context of the nomenclature, I suspect that geriatrics will be one of your concerns. However, it is wider. How do you see the operation of these teams? What do you think about the focus of the report in this regard?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic211x.u64	Madam President, Minister, I agree with the previous speaker. Geriater has indeed become a bottleneck profession, and the KCE report indicates many important elements that are worth following. The quality of geriatric care can certainly be much better. My questions are as follows. Will you continue to evaluate this concern? If so, how? What will you do about the shortage of geriatric doctors and nurses? Will you impose targets on the government? On what time? How will you cooperate with the Communities with a view to the formation of geriatric doctors? Will you try together to make the profession of geriater-pediater-neurologist more attractive? My colleague has already said that those involved are poorly paid. I'd like to hear if you see any opportunity to improve their pay? Indeed, they perform many intellectual achievements and little hospital performance. It is very important, in view of the quality of care, to re-evaluate this intellectual work. How will you handle this?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic211x.u65	Madam President, Mrs Muylle and Mrs Dedry, with regard to the question of quality testing of geriatric care, the Federal Government is solely responsible for evaluating the exercise of health care. The College of Doctors for the Geriatric Service at the FPS Public Health is investigating which quality indicators are relevant and important. The College also took many initiatives to develop guidelines, for example on the avoidance and handling of a delirium during hospitalisation. These directives have been developed in consultation with various occupational groups. With regard to the planning of the medical offer, attention is certainly paid to bottleneck professions as geriatrics. Within the federal quota fixed under the sixth state reform, the Communities may determine subquotas or minimum quotas, including for geriatrics. This now falls within the competence of Flemish Minister Vandeurzen. Those minimum quotas have been set federally since 2006, but we know that we do not get the minimum quotas for geriatrics. Recently, I asked the High Council for Medical Specialists and GPs for an opinion on the position of the Federal Advisory Council for Older People at the FPS Social Affairs, on choosing geriatrics. That opinion is expected by the end of this year. The Hoge Raad is also working on an opinion on the adaptation of the conditions of recognition for geriatrics, internships and internships. The award of the geriatric is, of course, included in the yard which runs simultaneously with the reorientation of our hospital landscape, in particular the yard of the recalibrate of the nomenclature. Already in 2014, the number of employees in the internal liaison team was changed. The size of the funded teams ranges from two to six full-time equivalents, depending on the number of elderly patients hospitalized outside the G-service. As for the question about nurses with specialization geriatrics, in the evaluation of the attraction plan for nursing, we look for a proper appreciation of the specialist nurse within a generic vision and no longer at the expense of a particular pathology or departmental specialism. In view of the ageing of the population, we would generally find it wise to devote more attention to geriatrics in basic nursing, both theoretical and clinical education. After all, we know that the birth rate is falling and the ageing population is a fact. Then it is only logical that more attention should be paid to this in the general nursing course. Finally, as you know, a new hospital financing model also examines how alternatives to hospitalisations can be promoted. In this context, I am thinking, for example, of the projects of intravenous treatment for pneumonia which may also take place in a rest and nursing home, transmural. This is also one of the objectives of the future plan for integrated care for chronically ill, while promoting intra-mural and trans-mural cooperation in the interests of patient care continuity.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic211x.u66	Madam Secretary, since these liaison teams remain a federal competence, I think that we should follow them closely. You're right that everything is linked together. For example, I think that the number of geriatrically sound beds is a lot higher than the number of approved beds. I believe that geriatrics is one of the few disciplines where that is the case. The reason is that geriatrics are often not a lucrative activity for hospitals. It also has to do with a shortage of hands, because care nurses often do not immediately opt for geriatrics. There is also a shortage of geriatrics, and this has to do with the nomenclature. You were right to raise those points. Madam Minister, there are still a number of issues within your competences in this regard. A global approach will be needed to improve the current quality of geriatric concerns in hospitals, which I am concerned about.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic211x.u67	Madam Minister, it is true that the problem will only be solved by a global approach. I certainly share your opinion to focus on geriatric nurses and to try to overcome some of the problems in geriatrics in this way. So I think that's a good lead. However, it is also important not to lose sight of the underpayment of geriatrics.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic211x.u68	Madam President, Minister, on the World Tobacco-Free Day of May 31, WHO invited governments to sign the Protocol to Eliminate the Illicit Trade in Tobacco Products. The Protocol is the first protocol to the WHO Framework Convention on Tobacco Control and is an international treaty in its own right. The Protocol provides for several points: measures concerning the tobacco supply chain, the issuing of licences for the import, export and manufacture of tobacco products, the establishment of monitoring and traceability systems and the imposition of sanctions against those responsible for the illegal trade. The illicit trade in tobacco offers consumers cheaper products, by exempting them from taxes levied by the State. As a result, this trade deprives the State of tax revenues, which reduces the resources that the Government can allocate to socio-economic development but also to public services for health care. Today, eight countries have ratified the Protocol (Austria, Congo, Gabon, Mongolia, Nicaragua, Spain, Turkmenistan and Uruguay). In order for this Protocol to be applicable at the level of international law, it is necessary for 40 countries to ratify it. Minister, is there a plan for Belgium to ratify this protocol? If so, when will she do it? With regard to the fight against the illicit trade in tobacco, what is the status of Belgium? Will the signing of this protocol have quantifiable consequences in the fight against this illegal trade in Belgium?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic211x.u69	Mr Friart, the Protocol on illicit trade in tobacco products was adopted in 2012 at the international level through the WHO Framework Convention on Tobacco Control. Since then, Belgium has signed this protocol. It will enter into force as soon as 40 countries have ratified it. It has been decided that this international treaty falls solely within federal jurisdiction. Only the federal parliament must ratify this text. My services are reviewing the development of a draft agreement to ratify this protocol. To this end, it is necessary to work in collaboration with other federal departments dealing with the issue, such as the Customs and Excise Service. In terms of timing, it would be preferable to have ratified the Protocol before the end of 2016, in order to be able to participate in the possible first meeting of the Parties that could take place at that time if the text had entered into force on that date. As you said, many countries still have to ratify it. The customs authorities have specific competence in these matters. I therefore invite you to ask my colleague Van Overtveldt, Minister of Finance, to obtain the information requested. We need to work together because these are two distinct skills. There is, on the one hand, Health and, on the other, Finance.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic211x.u70	Madam Minister, thank you. I will not fail to get in touch with your colleague, the Minister of Finance, because you are telling me that it is at customs level that this problem will be dealt with.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic211x.u71	Minister, the experts from EFSA (European Food Safety Authority) have confirmed their observations on the risk of cancers associated with acrylamide, a chemical found in chips, fries, breads, biscuits and coffee. This chemical component forms during the high temperature cooking process, during which the proteins come into contact with sugar (beyond 120°). The results of this study also indicate that cancer development is not only due to the presence of acrylamide in food, but is generally the result of a combination of several elements. EFSA has, however, considered it necessary to warn governments of the dangers that this chemical component may pose. Food Drink Europe, which is the confederation of the food industry at EU level, said that the level of acrylamide in different food products depends on a large number of factors, but nevertheless recognised the importance of reducing this level to the lowest possible level. Since 2011, the European Commission has recommended that Member States initiate surveys when acrylamide levels in food exceed certain indicative values. Does this type of control exist in Belgium? The Commission's second major recommendation concerns the management of eating habits, in particular those relating to the type of cooking. Do you consider it necessary to raise the awareness of the citizen about this issue?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic211x.u72	Madam Minister, a month ago EFSA, the European Food Safety Authority, published an opinion on the baking of fries. French fries should not be baked too hard, because then acrylamide is released. Acrylamide is released when baking at temperatures above 120°C, but the extent to which it also depends on the baking time and the sugars present. In the meantime, it has been shown several times that acrylamide is a harmful substance, which increases the risk of cancer. The fabric is not only in fries, but also in bread, chips and cookies. Test Purchase has meanwhile responded to the publication of the European Food Safety Authority. According to Test Purchase, the advice confirms the previous evaluations and investigations, linking acrylamide to cancer, and thus the risk to public health. I quote: 'It is high time for measures to inform consumers about the dangers'. Mandatory values must be established. Test Purchase delivered those proposals and demands to you, as I read in the press. I have the following questions. Do you think it is necessary to take measures that limit or modify the amount of acrylamide in our diet? Are you thinking of setting binding values? If so, what measures do you intend to take? In my view, the consumer should be sufficiently informed about the risks. Are you also thinking of a awareness campaign on the dangers of acrylamide?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic211x.u73	Madam Minister, I think that my fellow Members have already outlined the problem sufficiently. So, in order to be efficient, I will confine myself to asking my questions. What approach do you propose to reduce these health risks? What measures have already been taken to minimise the exposure of consumers to the substance? What is the legal framework within which this problem can be addressed? Are you considering extending this legal framework and imposing any mandatory measures? Are you planning, together with the Federal Agency for the Safety of the Food Chain, controls on the quality of certain quoted products, where there is an increased risk of acrylamide? If so, what is the timing for this? As Mr Yüksel has already pointed out, it is important for consumers to be made aware of the problems that acrylamide can cause. Are you planning awareness-raising measures in this area? Have you already consulted the Minister for Consumer Affairs on this? If so, what has been the outcome of this consultation? If not, when will this happen? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic211x.u74	Madam President, when my colleague Mr Friart, who produces an excellent beer close to home, speaks of the difficulty and danger of consuming cooked drinks, I hasten to join him in asking a question about acrylamide. On 4 June 2015, the European Food Safety Authority (EFSA) published its first comprehensive risk assessment of acrylamide in food. Experts have again confirmed previous assessments that acrylamide in food potentially increases the risk of developing cancer for consumers of all ages. In addition to cancer, the scientific group also examined the possible adverse effects of acrylamide on the nervous system, pre- and post-natal development, and the male reproductive system. As this chemical is present in a wide range of foods consumed on a daily basis, the problem arises for all consumers. However, children are the most exposed age group in proportion to their body weight. The food categories that contribute most to the explosion of acrylamide appear to be potato-based fried products, coffee, biscuits, grilled or fresh breads. It is also present in tobacco smoke. Each of us therefore a priori ingests this type of harmful substance in varying proportions. To what extent are our health risks of concern? What attitude do you intend to adopt following the EFSA conclusions? Is it possible to take measures to limit consumer exposure to acrylamide in foods? Have there been any exchanges with the agri-food industry in this context? Does it seem willing to make the necessary changes to improve the situation? Are industrial products controlled? How do we know whether or not the products we buy contain this type of substance? Which products are potentially the most dangerous?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic211x.u75	Ladies and gentlemen, of course we have read the scientific opinion of the European Food Safety Authority (EFSA) on the risk of acrylamide. I can reassure you about the controls on the indicative values for acrylamide in Belgium. They are the responsibility of the Federal Agency for Food Chain Security (AFSCA), for which my colleague from Agriculture, Mr Borsus, is responsible. At present, my administration is discussing with the European Commission and the other Member States the measures to be taken following the publication of the EFSA opinion. In this context, Belgium believes that several initiatives should be combined. First, a maximum level should be established, so as to make it clear that acrylamide is a major public health problem. Secondly, we need to adopt policies that promote good practice, for example in the form of a code of good practice, with the aim of applying the principle of ALARP (As Low As Reasonably Practical) exposure. Although the European bodies have not yet set a maximum level, in 2012 and 2013 my administration and AFSCA asked the business federations and Belgian consumer organisations to inform them of the measures taken to reduce the level of acrylamide in food. In 2014, this initiative was taken at European level. Exceedances measured by the AFSCA were also communicated to the Belgian federations. In 2014 appeared on the website of the administration in the section Tips advice to reduce acrylamide when baking fries and fried food. With these tips, the website wants to raise public awareness. Several Belgian federations of producers, Test Purchase and an expert of the Supreme Health Council have contributed to this. The tips mainly focus on frying and making fries, because these contribute greatly to the exposure of the Belgian consumer, especially when the fries are baked at home. There is a strong connection between the colour of the fries and the possible presence of acrylamide. It is easy to communicate: the fries must not be baked brown. When they are baked brown, the risk is much higher that many acrylamide has been released during frying due to too high a temperature. Belgapom, the professional association for the Belgian potato trade and processing industry, draws the attention of its members to the baking instructions on the packaging of frozen fries. It is the responsibility of the Minister for Agriculture to monitor this. The most important recommendation in the context of acrylamide remains a healthy and varied diet, so not too often frying. Sensitisation and information is crucial here. As you know, this is a matter for the Länder. The fries are checked in wholesalers, in large kitchens, in all frying hours. The danger lies in the people's home, because there is no proper handling of fries. Especially with frozen fries one wants to go too fast. The general rule, however, is easy: the fries must not be baked brown.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic211x.u76	Blonde fries!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic211x.u77	Minister, from your answer I note the collaboration with the AFSCA – which is a very important element – as well as your advice for the proper cooking and preparation of this national dish, the French frie!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic211x.u78	Abstinence is too much!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic211x.u79	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. I believe that there is a need for further cooperation at European level in this area, especially as regards the establishment of mandatory values. The administration has already taken steps to do this. As you said, this problem is particularly common in the people's home. I believe that we must continue to sensitise the population and continue to follow it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic211x.u80	Madam Secretary, thank you for your comprehensive answer. I have seen that measures have already been taken. We can only be satisfied with that. You are right to say that the big problem arises with the people who bake fries at home. I'd like to call for extra awareness campaigns so we don't bake them too brown at home. There is no need for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic211x.u81	Minister, you are well aware that this is a major health problem and that reassures me.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic211x.u82	Indeed, in Belgium, more fries are eaten than in neighbouring countries!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic211x.u83	Clearly, a host of mechanisms have already been put in place to carry out controls, including through the AFSCA. Consumer protection bodies have also been active. But if control is properly exercised, there is an urgent need to raise the consumer's awareness so that he or she takes appropriate action.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic211x.u84	Madam Minister, in reply to previous questions on this subject, you referred to the project that could limit hospital stay after childbirth. I just wanted to wrist when the project will start and how it will work out. More specifically, I have further questions. Do you intend to use a different length of lying for primi- and multipara? Multipara usually have a lower need for guidance than primipara. Mother and any partner should acquire a number of competences in the handling and care of their newborn. The length of stay in the hospital is not important, but it is important to know which competences they learn when. In this context, the field of work would benefit from a checklist, so that the team.... there are many people around the bed of the newly given wife and her partner......................................................................................................................................................................................................... Finally, do you intend to keep track of the number of re-records? Indeed, in response to these projects, a number of doom-thinkers expressed their concern and claimed that such re-raptures would be more frequent by reducing the length of time spent.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic211x.u85	Mrs. Van Camp, doomthinkers are of all times. I am not saying that because I think you are a doomthinker, but because a working visit to De Bakermat in Leuven, including Mrs Dedry, referred to the predictions made by many doomthinkers at the time when the work of De Bakermat with home care and midwife was launched. Those doomthinkers are still here. We are currently preparing the call, which will be launched in the coming weeks on the maternity path of mother-child. The project has a threefold objective: improving the experienced quality of care, improving the health of mother and child and the more efficient use of resources that should result in the provision of care with the same means but of better quality. A framework is being developed for pilot projects to ensure the quality of care in pilot projects. In order to facilitate maximum support for the new organisation of postnatal care, we have opted to use the experience of the field of work: the field of work will be able to develop projects tailored to the local care available, because the conditions are not the same everywhere. A number of quality indicators will indeed be set for this purpose. The number of re-rapes of the maternity or newborn is a quality indicator as far as possible. Despite all the doom thinking, I would like to point out that shortening the lying time is not significantly correlated with an increase in the number of re-rapes of the newborn, nor with the number of maternal complications. For this I refer to the scientific literature, namely Crochrane Review by Brown and others from 2009. Projects that offer continuity of care by organizing postnatal care during pregnancy, such as recommended by the knowledge centre, are our preferred projects. Of course, one should not start giving all kinds of advice on the day of leaving the hospital. Human pregnancy lasts nine months: that is long enough to pay attention to this in advance. The proposers are also expected to make proposals on the qualifications necessary for such a care path, the necessary support, to be offered to the future mother and any partner, and the criteria that determine when the mother can return home. Of course, as in the past, an adapted care path for primipara and multipara remains a possible option. It used to be: with the first child the mother had to stay a day longer than with the next children.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic211x.u86	Ladies and gentlemen, since your written questions are quite long, I would ask you to summarize them.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic211x.u87	Madam Chair, since the questions asked were very detailed and we wanted to answer them in full, my answer is six pages. It will be difficult for me to summarize it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic211x.u88	Colleagues, could we consider turning these attached questions into written questions, so that you could get a full six-page answer? [[No]] I suggest you sum up your questions and the minister will give you the answer she has prepared. Then we will stop our work for today.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic211x.u89	Madam Minister, the KCE recommends investing sufficient EUR million in clinical studies. The government must play an important role in this. What do you think of that? What was published in the press through your spokesperson was rather brief. How do you deal with the recommendations of the KCE? My second point concerns the pact with the pharmaceutical sector which you have already announced in committee and several previous meetings. You're working on that. How far along are you with that? My third point concerns the committee's reports on the reimbursement of medicinal products. They complain that these reports are not always available. The most important thing, finally, is an analysis by the Court of Auditors in 2014. The Court of Auditors then made 25 concrete recommendations. If I were a minister, I'd really do something with that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic211x.u90	Madam President, I come directly to my questions. Minister, I have no doubt for a moment that you have read the KCE report. In doing so, are you in favour of public funding of clinical trials as recommended by the KCE for our country? If so, what budget would you consider? In its report, the KCE stresses in particular the importance of selecting the priority issues to be investigated. If such funding were on the agenda, what would be the public health issues that you think should be addressed as a priority? Finally, among the recommendations made for the establishment of such funding, the report recommends the establishment of a professional infrastructure, the call for experts organised in networks and the accession of Belgium to certain international organisations, such as ECRIN, which support and accompany European transnational testing, which would enable these studies to be carried out at international level. What is your position on these different points?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic211x.u91	Madam Minister, I refer to articles from De Standaard which cited an interesting example of a clinical study in America. It compared different blood pressure reductions and found that a certain class of cheap drugs works better than newer, more expensive pills. The investigations were, of course, not initiated by the pharmaceutical companies themselves, but by the government. The KCE therefore asks the government to finance clinical studies. My questions are therefore the following, Madam Secretary. Do you have plans to invest in such independent studies? What budget would you like to spend on this every year? Do you have a starting date in mind? Are there certain types of medication that would be highlighted? Have you made a cost-benefit analysis of how much government could save through such targeted clinical studies?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic211x.u92	Mrs Dedry, Mr Senesael, Mrs Van Camp, in reply to your questions concerning the public funding of clinical studies and the recently published KCE report, I can provide you with the following information. You know that the recommendations of the Centre of Knowledge are always taken into account in policy. With regard to the level of funding and the resources that will enable this funding, I cannot give any precise information today. This is, after all, an initiative. Research is being carried out into how we can respond to the recommendations of the Knowledge Centre. As a result of the results of a clinical study funded by public funds, consideration could be given to initiating a reimbursement procedure under unmedical need. In other words, some innovative medicines can benefit even if they are not registered. This is possible when used in the treatment of a serious or fatal condition for which there is no therapeutic alternative. This new procedure was called unmet medical need or unrequited medical need and allows for faster access to innovative medicines. As regards transparency in the pharmaceutical sector, I can tell you that there are discussions about a pact with the pharmaceutical sector. This will be clarified in the next few weeks. As regards applications to the CTG secretariat for the provision of administrative documents for the purpose of public administration, I can tell you that all the CTG reports and proposals remain available regardless of the speciality to which they relate. As regards the Court of Auditors' report on the reimbursement of medicinal products and the performance of public administration, it is necessary to see Belgian policy on the reimbursement of proprietary medicinal products in the European context. Indeed, there is the European Transparency Directive 89/105, which, in addition to time limits for disease, also imposes objective and verifiable criteria for decision-making. Translated into national legislation means that this is taken into account when deciding whether or not to reimburse a new pharmaceutical therapy. This means: about a new medicinal product or about a medicinal product for which a new or modified indication is assumed. The therapeutic value and place in the practice of the products shall be evaluated, weighted and justified. This is done on the basis of a number of parameters such as relative effectiveness, cost efficiency and pharmacodynamic elements. This should always be done in the context of the basic objectives of health insurance, namely the quality of care, patient accessibility and sustainability. In addition, previous decisions are reviewed through regular individual and group reviews. Various reports also assess and monitor expenditure, the quality of decisions and the effectiveness of the system itself. Let me refer in this respect to the MORSE and INAMI performance report and to the work of the KCE. In addition, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that in December 2014, a new procedure was launched with respect to unmet medical needs. The aim of this procedure is twofold: to make available to patients, as soon as possible, proprietary medicinal products of an innovative nature for serious or fatal diseases where alternative treatment does not exist, on the one hand, and to provide for health insurance. This must be done before registration, at European level, for a specialty which is not yet approved and, in the context of a speciality already approved, before recognition of a new indication for which there is a medical need which is not satisfied. This procedure is based on priorities and needs as clearly defined and prior to collaboration between all parties concerned. This is an important step towards a policy focused on the needs of the authorities. I agree with the recommendation that the information available to the Federal Agency for Medicinal Products and Health Products (AFMPS) should be systematically communicated to INAMI, in particular to the Reimbursement Commission for Medicinal Products (CRM). This complements the request of the Member States of the European Union to have access to all the information of the European Medicines Agency. However, let me also draw your attention to various projects in which there is already intensive coordination and collaboration between INAMI and AFMPS. An example is the presence of an AFMPS collaborator at CRM, as well as the intensive collaboration between AFMPS and INAMI under the procedure established in December 2014 concerning unmet medical needs. In the absence of a positive proposal expressed and qualified by vote, the Court of Auditors recommends that the committee's proposal be considered negative. I do not think that such an interpretation would encourage Members to take an active part in the vote or in other words to express themselves clearly for or against a proposal. Abstentions of a strategic nature would still be possible in order to provoke negative proposals. As regards the recommendation of the Court of Auditors on the secret ballot in the CTG, I can inform you that the meeting rooms of the RIZIV will be equipped with an electronic secret ballot system. As regards the management of conflicts of interest, the Court of Auditors considers that better compensation for this concern can be provided. In the context of the discussions on the future pact with the pharmaceutical industry, we are examining a number of possible avenues for reflection. However, the recommendation to exclude experts who are members of the CTG and have participated in clinical studies from the discussions could deprive the Committee of valuable and pertinent information. With regard to an international database on the prices of medicinal products, the RIZIV strongly supports developments in the PPRI and Euripid databases. These are databases showing the profiles of the countries and the prices of the medicines in those countries. The RIZIV already makes extensive use of this. However, the RIZIV cannot grant access to those sources of information, as requested by the Court of Auditors, as the RIZIV does not own it. The report states that the FPS Economic Affairs and the RIZIV do not obtain any information about the prices applied abroad for the medicinal products that have been included in the reimbursement for five years or more than 12 years. However, that is not correct. This information is requested for individual files. The Court recommends that the reimbursement procedures for medicinal products included in the list of pharmacovigilance medicinal products be reviewed regularly. I can agree with that in principle. A number of individual and group revisions have already taken place this year and a number of are still planned. The Court of Auditors states that the College should make an assessment of the pertinence of the reimbursement procedures of the anti-TNF medicinal products and that the database is not being used. We would like to point out that the TARDIS computerized tool (Tool for Administrative Reimbursement Drug Information Sharing) is now being made available. Reumatologists are required to use this application for the reimbursement of biological medicinal products indicated for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis. Due to the mandatory use of the tool, the data on the administered dose are already recorded according to the patient's profile and on discontinuation of treatment. As regards the fairness of reimbursement, the Court recommends that a reimbursement category be set up for non-refundable medicinal products, which should be included in the maximum invoice. The RIZIV wishes to draw attention to an ongoing investigation carried out by the Centre for Chronic Diseases in order to assess the suitability to include non-refundable but registered medicinal products (category D) in the maximum invoice. That's what we're doing. The rest is about the counter-products. In addition, there is no registration of the patient.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic211x.u93	Madam President, Minister, thank you for your detailed reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic211x.u94	Madam Chair, Minister, I thank you for this very comprehensive answer that I will be analyzing with rested head.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic211x.u95	Madam President, Minister, thank you for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic211x.u96	Ladies and gentlemen, Question No 4995 by Mr André Frédéric has been withdrawn. Questions No 4997 by Mr Raf Terwingen, No 5009 by Mr Eric Massin and No 5010 by Mrs Nathalie Muylle are transformed into written questions. Questions Nos 5072 and 5289 by Mr Alain Mathot and myself are transformed into written questions, and questions Nos 5159 by Mrs Inez De Coninck, 5190 by Mr Jan Vercammen, 5343 by Mrs Maya Detiège and 5375 by Mr Jan Vercammen are transformed into written questions. Some 35 questions remain for next Tuesday in the afternoon. There is no point in adding many more because we lack time. We'll do as much as we can.
