ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic165x.u1	Mr President, Minister, on 15 March 2015, an association organised a demonstration in the streets of Brussels on the theme "The fight against police violence". The itinerary of this event crossed several communes to the city centre of Brussels. It appears that damage has been caused to police equipment and shop windows of Brussels traders. This damage would be attributable to participants in the demonstration. A television broadcast of a public service channel attests to this fact. In a RTBF broadcast, one can very clearly see, among other things, that a police vehicle is stifled and that the organiser of the demonstration, who is interviewed by journalists, explains that many participants in the demonstration threw the stones. He also told journalists that "to see the police intervene would lead to even more violence". These are obviously not words that we can accept. Minister, have your services received a report from the Assembly of Chiefs of Corps on this matter? Have any such findings actually been recorded by the police in the course of interventions and arrests? Were there any responsibilities that could be identified? What initiatives have been taken to date to challenge them?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic165x.u2	Mr President, Mr Pivin, no report from the Conference of Chiefs of Corps has been sent because it is a local problem. A window in an establishment was broken and a police vehicle that was not part of the police service was subjected to a stone throw. Given the purpose of the demonstration, the profile of the demonstrators and the situation on the ground, it was not considered appropriate to intervene directly at the heart of the demonstration against the perpetrators who immediately melted into the mass. The intervention of the internal order service was preferred in order to stop these two incidents. Two separate minutes have been drawn up concerning the facts. The police had a good description of the perpetrators. The investigation is still under way to identify them.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic165x.u3	Mr President, Minister, recently, police patrols have been fired at by war weapons, including the Brussels-Midi police services, which have been shot at by Kalashnikov. The fight against arms trafficking has been strengthened in recent years. However, the situation remains particularly problematic. Mr Minister, my question was tabled before the last European Council on Home Affairs and I was therefore able to hear that on that occasion you had discussed this issue. You informed our Parliament last week of the European initiatives that will follow this European Council and target arms trafficking, through mechanisms for information exchange and enhanced border control. In the face of this ever-increasing threat, has an assessment of the law and the implementing decrees and the circular of 25 October 2011 been or will it be carried out? Has there been any consultation among the actors in the field to ensure the optimal application of these guidelines by the police, prosecutors, governors and the Federal Armaments Service? Is prosecution of perpetrators of arms trafficking a priority, as provided for in the National Security Plan? How many incidents of war-arms trafficking have been recorded in the past six months? Is an evaluation of international collaborations planned in the near future, particularly in the context of the work under way within the European Commission?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic165x.u4	Mr. Pivin, your first two questions do not fall within the competence of the police services. They should be addressed to my colleague Koen Geens, Minister of Justice. The FPS Justice, the Federal Arms Service, is responsible for monitoring this legislation. There are regular consultations between representatives of the local police, the Federal Judicial Police, the Public Prosecutor's Office and the Provincial Governor's Weapons Service on the issue of arms at the provincial level. For your third question, you must also address Mr Koen Geens, who is the appropriate minister. As far as your fourth question is concerned, the concept of a weapon of war no longer exists under the new arms legislation, and therefore in the police records and investigations. It is an expression commonly understood by the general public, but non-existent at the legal level. It is not possible to obtain figures on these facts in the trade in prohibited firearms as "full automatic" firearms. As for your last question, international cooperation in the fight against arms trafficking has intensified since it became a priority for the European Union. The European Commission has proposed to establish a comprehensive strategic plan to combat trafficking in firearms aimed at enhancing the security of citizens. This priority has been resumed at Europol, in charge of the Impact Firearms project. For example, annual operational plans have been implemented since 2014, providing for actions relating in particular to the improvement of the European legislative framework, the organisation of ad hoc actions aimed at specific modus operandi and the exchange of information between Member States in this field. The results of this action plan shall be reported annually to the European bodies and therefore to the Member States. I'm sorry I can't be complete anymore.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic165x.u5	Minister, thank you for your answer to the last question. I will reorient the other questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic165x.u6	Minister, the problem of urban gangs has required the daily struggle of the police for many years. Concrete measures are being implemented to combat this situation, which often involves - as is evident on the ground - minors. Nevertheless, the phenomenon is still not reduced, and certainly not in the Brussels region. I had already been able to question the Brussels Executive in a place other than this one, in particular a report of the Committee P of 2012 which determined what was commonly referred to as ‘no go' areas in Belgium. More recently, a finding by the Brussels Public Prosecutor's Office of an increase in this phenomenon of urban gangs is quite disturbing. A substitute, who spoke in the press a few weeks ago, indicated his main concern in the fight against urban gangs, in order to avoid any formation of these areas of 'no go', which implies that there are some. These are spaces that are no longer governed by the rules of our rule of law and this is obviously not tolerable. The judicial arsenal already makes it possible to take certain concrete measures such as the removal of young offenders from these movements. It would seem, however, that the police services should also – this is a suggestion – organize their actions differently and perhaps strengthen them. Can you tell us how many urban bands are currently in Belgium? How many people are included in these gangs and, more specifically, how many underage children? What concrete measures are being taken in 2015 to combat this phenomenon in the country's major cities? Are specific measures taken to combat minors? What are the operational resources available to the police? Does the next National Security Plan intend to strengthen actions in this area? Is there specific coordination between the Federal Police, the Public Prosecutor's Office, the Youth Courts and the local police areas in an attempt to curb this phenomenon?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic165x.u7	Mr Pivin, given the time allotted, my answer will be limited to the Brussels-Capital Region and therefore does not concern all the major cities in the country. The phenomenon of urban gangs is a priority of the Federal Police in Brussels and is systematically monitored. The systematic follow-up corresponds to the district information hub of the Federal Police of Brussels (CIA). It is part of a circular issued by the public prosecutor's office in Brussels and, in this context, involves a capacity of two employees. The same applies to the police areas affected by this phenomenon. All speakers meet monthly at the Brussels Public Prosecutor's Office to ensure follow-up by file. The phenomenon of urban gangs is also the subject of preventive measures organised by the municipalities, within the framework of strategic security and prevention contracts, through the more global phenomena of social nuisance and youth crime. According to the information available to us, cities do not complain about having gangs of young people engaging in criminal acts, but they consider the phenomenon on the basis of the two categories mentioned above. These measures are implemented in synergy with the police area concerned, but also with the youth and family services, municipalities and associations. In addition, minors are subject to a criminal policy separate from that of adults at the Brussels Public Prosecutor's Office. On the other hand, the police do not fight against gangs made up of minors differently. At the level of the Brussels-Capital Region, each area has its specific action plan and its teams dedicated exclusively to the fight against urban gangs. The Federal Police, more specifically the district information hub, provides coordination and monitoring of the phenomenon through, inter alia, a monthly platform organized at the level of the Public Prosecutor's Office. As far as the next National Security Plan is concerned, it is not possible for me to foresee today what means and priorities will be planned for the administrative and judicial police authorities. Discussions on this subject have yet to be concluded. As I said in plenary last week, I will not take a position until the consultation is finalised. But I repeat that this question is well on the table.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic165x.u8	Minister, I understand that the time allotted to you did not allow you to give me a full answer. Do you think you can answer me, if necessary, in writing, about my question about the number of bands and their composition in Belgium?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic165x.u9	Yes, I will answer you in writing.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic165x.u10	Minister, the National Security Plan provides the integrated police with an objective of corporate social responsibility or CSR within the framework of a modern HR policy and sustainable development. A portfolio of CSR was created in the Local Police Permanent Commission a few months ago. The various local corps were asked to participate in a special working group. The aim of the working group is to arrive at a vision text and an own CSR instrument. Will the federal police participate in that working group? Which federal police services are active in corporate social responsibility? What other services are active in the integrated police on sustainable development and a modern HR policy? What are the results achieved after a few years of particular attention to CSR? How are good practices on sustainable development and a modern HR policy shared with the integrated police? Will CSR be re-established in the new National Security Plan as one of your objectives? Is CSR part of the instructions of the mandate holders of the integrated police?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic165x.u11	Your question is quite a sandwich and I warn you in advance: the answer will be quite extensive. First of all, the federal police are not actively participating in the working group today. It is open to all forms of cooperation in the context of corporate social responsibility. There are a number of initiatives within the federal police themselves in that field. For example, the federal police have a draft vision text on CSR. A number of external specialists were involved in its development, including the Chief Constable Marc Crespel of the Police Zone of Sint-Pieters-Leeuw and also portfolio holder CSR for the Permanent Commission of Local Police. Secondly, the operationalisation of the concept of CSR or people profit planet in federal police objectives and projects can be found in the mandates of the Commissioner-General and of the Directors-General of the Federal Police. For further operationalisation and a possible inclusion in assignments, new mandate holders or devolved level, the implementation of the optimization movement is first awaited. There will be a shift with the police and with the mandate holders, so there is not much point in imposing prior obligations in this respect. That happens after the shift is done. Meanwhile, a number of indicators for CSR are followed in the steering boards, system of balance scorecard, of the federal police. An initial inventory has also been made of initiatives that may fall under the heading of CSR. In short, the theme of CSR is relatively distributed among the various general managements of the federal police and more specifically among the managements and services of the general management of Resources and Information. On the one hand, CSR is integrated into its regular operation. On the other hand, there are also certain federal police services representing specific themes such as CSR, such as Diversity, a staff department; Integrity, an office at the level of the Commissioner-General; Social consultation, a service at the level of DGR; Consumption figures or still public market procurement, at the services of Logistics. Today, however, there is no full CSR service or a CSR manager in the organisation. At the Logistics Directorate there is an environmental service or environmental manager in the organic framework, but that place is currently vacant and not yet filled in. Thirdly, the federal police are working on a modern HR policy. All departments of the Personnel Directorate shall contribute to the development of HR policy. For example, the federal police want to be widely recognised but also recognised as a reliable partner, an attractive employer and a professional service provider. She wants to do so by delivering concrete results and added value in the field of HR together with honest and responsible employees. She wants to respond in a maneuverable way to new trends and challenges that are emerging. To this end, she wants to take on her social responsibility and increase the involvement of her employees. The federal police is also driven by a culture of innovation and wants to be innovative and transparent in its HR policies and processes. I would also like to point out that this year the Commissioner-General, Mrs De Bolle, was elected government manager of the year. The innovative HR policy was one of the reasons why it was given that title. Unfortunately, she could not be present at the award ceremony, because she was on the day of the action in Verviers. In addition to the Federal Police Personnel Directorate, for which the implementation of HR policy is the core task, the HR central management wants to cooperate in the HR domain with its partners, federal police entities and local police forces. In this respect, a network shall be set up of all those responsible for human resources in the integrated police, in particular all police areas, all DirCos and all decentralised services of the federal police, all central executives of the federal police, the Commissioner-General and the three general executives of the federal police, the general inspection and the social secretariat. All these services are regularly put together to allow initiatives in the field of today's HR policy to be introduced into the organisation. Fourthly, over the years numerous CSR initiatives and projects have been organised in the federal police. I am thinking, for example, of the charter on equality between men and women; equal opportunities and diversity, and the accompanying letter; the Holocaust, Police and Human Rights programmes; the "We change" programme, the new works; the creation of the national police academy; the renewed basic training including the introduction of workplace learning and probation; the survey on how women experience their career development; the "Function descriptions" manual; the federal diversity day on 4 December; the move to the RAC, the new building of the police; and the introduction of facility management. In addition to these initiatives, the following CSR indicators are followed in a balanced scorecard: the environmental permits for building complexes, sustainable commuting, the number of kilometres travelled per bike, the consumption of transport fuel relative to the number of kilometres driven, the consumption of fuel for heating, the consumption of electricity, water consumption, the consumption of paper, the number of accidents at work, the frequency of accidents in relation to the overall and actual severity of accidents, the number of suicides, the number of hours of telework performed, the number of employees working telework, the number of men-women in the selection committees, the number of staff at responsibility according to sex; the number of days absent due to health reasons, the number of strikes, the number of persons with disabilities, the number of registrations and the evaluation of training in the kazerne Dosssin and so on. All these criteria have to do with CSR. Fifth, there's a database of good practice for hands, Mosaic. In addition, various channels are available in federal police to disseminate good practices such as newsletters, working groups and networks. For example, there is a working group Transgender; a platform Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual and Transgender; and a future network for those responsible for the human resources in the integrated police. Sixthly, the federal police are currently preparing for the new National Security Plan. CSR will remain an important theme and objective for the organizational policy of the federal police. This does not necessarily mean that CSR will also be included as an objective in the National Security Plan. The main focus will be on the operational aspects of public security. Finally, CSR is mentioned in several places in the mandate letters of the federal police officers. The letter of order of the Director-General of the Administrative Police takes over the objectives of the Commissioner-General in cascade. Given the optimization of the federal police, the orders of the former DirCos and DirJuds are no longer applicable. The districts have been restructured and new mandate holders have been appointed. Their assignments will be drawn up in the autumn. Let me give you some examples of what is in such a letter of order around CSR. For example, the letter from the Commissioner-General states that the federal police provides added value by taking at least one initiative on sustainability per service and per year. Or, in any selection committee, criteria for diversity such as gender and language must be taken into account. Another example, the federal police will pursue an active diversity policy and position themselves in relation to the growing diversity of characteristics, needs and expectations of target groups and partners, on the one hand, and of labour force on the labour market and on the other hand. It will ensure strict compliance with anti-racism and anti-discrimination laws and the principles of gender management.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic165x.u12	Thank you, Minister. It is important that we also join the federal police with the social developments. Corporate social responsibility is very important. I think there is already a great deal going on. Maybe it's not bad that the federal police are part of the working group. I think it would be a clear signal if CSR were included in a National Security Plan. I fully follow you when you say that the issue is important.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic165x.u13	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Jadin referred 4036 to the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Pas 4054 has been postponed. Debates of the European Parliament Mr D'Haese has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic165x.u14	Mr President, Minister, last week we were talking about police schools. Two days later it appeared for a West-Flaming anyway not directly nicest message. In recent years, the West Flemish police school has made a restructuring exercise and an exercise in cost efficiency. For example, there is cooperation with ambulance and fire schools. These measures would allow the police school break-even to run in 2016 and thus continue to work well, correctly and economically. However, the federal government decided not to grant 127 000 euros for 2013 and 136 000 euros for 2014. There would also be a reduction in the training of the aspirants. This makes it difficult to maintain the proper functioning. The West Flemish governor has made some statements about this. I have a few questions. Is it true that amounts were not awarded to the West Flemish police school in 2013 and 2014? If so, for what reason? A working group would be set up on the problems of this police school. Has that happened yet? If not, what deadline will the working party be set up? Who will be part of this working group? Are there any other police schools dealing with the same financial problems? Are you working on a solution so that federal police training can continue to take place in the West Flemish police school?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic165x.u15	Mr President, Mr Demon, the funding of police schools is based on the Royal Decree of 28 February 2002 on the posting of federal police trainers in recognised police schools and on the detailed rules for granting financial assistance for the organisation of selection tests and vocational training by recognised police schools. The financial intervention was granted within the limits of the available appropriations entered in the budget of the federal police for the integrated operation. In 2013, the West Flemish police school was entitled to a total of 1 220 732 euros. This involved the following amounts: about EUR 100 000 for the initial training of the middle framework, about EUR 770 000 for the basic framework, about EUR 64 000 for functional training, EUR 244 000 for continuing training, EUR 25 000 for certified training CALog and EUR 21 000 for the selection procedures. Together, this is about EUR 1 220 000. Due to the limitation of the credits due to the federal savings entered in the federal police budget, an amount of EUR 1 094 264 was awarded and paid for the West Flemish police school in 2013. This means a deficit of nearly 126 500 euros compared to the amount to which the West Flemish police school was entitled. The budget denominations imposed and entered in the appropriations.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... I'll come back to that later. The situation is the same for 2014. With regard to the absence of the remaining subsidies for 2014 and the advance for 2015, which should have been paid out already, the file has been with the Finance Inspector since the beginning of April, who has asked additional questions, which are now being answered by my administration as soon as possible, so that payments can be made as soon as possible. I can imagine that the delay is a problem. As far as your second question is concerned, I have committed myself to the Conference of Provincial Governors to set up a working group to examine, in accordance with the objectives of the government agreement, not only through management contracts, but also to strengthen cooperation and synergies between police schools, with a view to rationalizing them. There is no doubt that the police schools themselves will be involved. That would be against a lot of things, should it not be. A mandate proposal for that working group has been drawn up, but it still needs to be discussed in depth at my level. It is clear that the financial situation of the ten police schools is problematic. That problem didn't come from one day to the next. This problem therefore requires a structural approach, which will take time and energy, and above all a transparent view of the issues and a constructive attitude to find new and even innovative solutions. It's not a simple problem. These schools are all ten different too, but one can draw some parallels. The funding base from the federal government is of course the same, but they also rely on other funding bases. It is therefore a complex problem. As far as your third question is concerned, as has already been said, federal police grants to police schools have been entered in the federal police budget on the basis of the available funds. Due to the limited budget envelope due to the federal savings, all police schools received less subsidies in 2013. So we didn't sign off on any school, and certainly not the West Flemish. The situation is the same for 2014. However, police schools are not only financed through federal funds. Since each police school has its own statute, determines its own functioning and uses other funding mechanisms, I cannot go into the general budgetary situation of the ten recognised police schools themselves. Right now, we don't have a visual on this at federal level. That is one of the reasons why we have included in the government agreement the objective of making this funding transparent. That is one of the tasks of the working group to which I have just referred. As far as your fourth question is concerned, the training provided at the request of the federal police in a recognised police school is basic training. These basic training courses are fully funded by the federal level and will therefore be provided by the recognised police schools in 2015, including the West Flemish police school. As far as other types of training are concerned, recognition records must always be drawn up and approved for these training courses. However, the agreement for such a recognition dossier does not imply that the federal level must pay for these training courses. The budgetary denominations imposed on the basis of the appropriations entered in the budget are carried out on these types of training. If the schools want to make additional efforts to this end, they will have to provide the necessary funding themselves. Finally, I would like to refer once again to the working group on financing cooperation and synergy for rationalization, which will examine different solutions for the provision of training in the different police schools. This is likely to lead to a renewed effect which, I hope, will be more effective for all actors.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic165x.u16	Mr Minister, a matter is not entirely clear to me. This amounts to the amount of EUR 136 000 for 2014. In this context, you also mention that there are still matters before the Finance Inspector, to which your administration still has to answer. Does that mean that 10% of savings will be made anyway? Or could those resources still be channelled to the police school after answering those questions? Is there a saving of 10 % again anyway?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic165x.u17	Yeah, there's another saving.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic165x.u18	I think we should pay attention to that. You yourself said that the police schools will be involved in the working group. The provincial governors are also likely to be involved. I was on the board of directors of that West Flemish police school myself. The water's on her lips. We're gonna have to keep an eye on that. What our governor, Mr Decaluwe, said was not empty words. He has also said on the Management Board that we will have to pay attention to this.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic165x.u19	Mr President, Minister, on April 22, the French government announced that a plan to attack two Catholic churches in Villejuif in France had been avoided by a narrow margin. Indeed, thanks to the fortuitous arrest of the suspect on 19 April, the French authorities were able to detect his plans in time and prevent him from moving forward. It was thus discovered that Sid Ahmed Ghlam was in contact with another person "may be in Syria with whom he was exchanging on the modalities of the commission of an attack, the latter asking him to target a church", according to the Paris prosecutor. In recent months, there have been executions of Christians in Iraq, Syria and Libya. We know that they are the target of the Islamic State. Minister, have any specific measures been taken in Belgium? Did the OCAM report anything? Jewish cults are protected, but I realize that there are a lot of Christian places of worship. According to the information available to you, is there a particular threat to Christian worship in view of what happened in France? Christians have been an indisputable target in the Middle East for a long time but especially today!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic165x.u20	Mrs Matz, the targets of the supporters of the Islamic State are varied: the military, the police, the Jewish community, the caricaturists but also the Yazidis, the Coptics, the Christians of Ethiopia, the Kurds, the Shiites, the governments of the Muslim countries, the countries members of the coalition, the United States, France. The list is almost infinite! Indeed, Christians are included in what terrorists call "the crusaders"; the targeting of a church in Villejuif by Sid Ahmed Ghlam is quite new but hardly surprising. Until now, Christian places of worship had never been mentioned in writing or in a speech by a member, sympathizer or leader of the Islamic State. Nevertheless, the name of the city of Rome had already been taken up. With regard to the protection of churches in Belgium, it must first be considered that for terrorists, France is nicknamed "the little Satan" and is therefore particularly targeted by Islamist terrorism for a number of reasons: the colonial past, foreign policy, armed action in the Sahel. The risk of an attack is therefore greater than in our country. Secondly, we have no specific and concrete information about a project towards these places of worship. Sites that are considered potential targets in Belgium (s synagogues, Jewish schools, some embassies), based on OCAM analyses and on the information received, are currently at level 3 (serious) and benefit from appropriate protection measures. The number of churches in Belgium of 4,000 is currently at level 2 of the threat, which implies certain measures by the local police services depending on the occupations and attendances at the offices. I asked the OCAM to make a specific analysis following your question, but after examination, the churches remain at level 2. It is clear that, when searching for information for the various Belgian police and intelligence services, the identification of potential targets is a priority objective. If this research revealed that one or more churches would be a target, the OCAM would report directly to us the level of the threat and the government could raise the level of protection if necessary. My answer is based on a fairly recent analysis of OCAM.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic165x.u21	Minister, thank you for the detailed analysis you requested. I expressed a fear because, without wanting to create psychosis, we often tend to compare ourselves to France. But, as you rightly point out, the past in France is different from ours; some targets are not the same and the terrorist threat is probably more important in France than in Belgium. Thank you for your very comprehensive answer and for your particular attention to this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic165x.u22	Minister, in recent weeks, and especially during Easter, a wave of cyber attacks has again been recorded, particularly against the press. Let me briefly recall the facts. There was first the cyber attack on the eleven TV5 World channels, which was claimed by the terrorist group Islamic State. Then there was the cyber attack on the Rossel group, forcing it to completely shut down its Internet network so as not to compromise the release of its paper edition, which would have been economically and democratically unbearable. On the following days, other attacks have repeatedly affected the editions of several daily newspapers:La Libre, the group Towards the future, the DH. These attacks have always been claimed by the "Libersquad" group, whose aim is not terrorist but to reveal to the public the great fragility of the security of our information. This vulnerability is confirmed by experts, such as the former head of the Computer Crime Unit of the Federal Police. This is a subject that has already been discussed several times and on which I spoke before you even took office. You will tell us again how much this problem is a priority of the government, as we were told by some of your predecessors. Despite these good intentions, the cyber attacks of recent weeks have shown how far our country is lagging behind in the fight against cybercrime. This is particularly worrying when we know that the attacks will only accelerate and even worsen. According to a first survey, our country experienced 822 attacks in 2014, against only, if I may say, 339 in 2013. According to a study by a private consulting office, attacks around the world have increased by 48 per cent in a year, with an increase in the cost to companies or cyber site managers. This increase in costs for managers is estimated at approximately 34%. We are therefore facing a critical situation. You will quote us all the measures announced by the government, but I would like to ensure that the government's intentions are properly implemented and monitored. What is the status of the Minister of Justice's consultation with the College of Attorneys General on the development of the specific criminal policy provided for in the government agreement? Will the development of this criminal policy be accompanied by recommendations or even a vade-mecum to be addressed to the most vulnerable infrastructure managers? What are you thinking about in terms of the budget? Budgetary data, particularly on the establishment of the Coordination Centre, remain rather unclear. A former Secretary of State for the Civil Service, Mr Bogaert, had estimated in April 2013 that the minimum minimum to carry out an effective policy in the fight against cyberattacks required a budget of €20 million. The budget will be allocated to the Dutch Cyber Security Centre from 2016 onwards. To date, funding for government initiatives has been at best estimated at around EUR 10 million. What are you doing in the evaluation of the necessary budgets? Will the Cyber Security Centre be fully operational by the end of June 2015, that is, in a month and a half, as the Prime Minister said on that same commission?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic165x.u23	Mr Maingain, on your first question, I refer you to my colleague the Minister of Justice. No directives have yet been sent to critical infrastructure. The information network security consultation platform, Belnis, is concerned, among other things, with clarifying procedures for managing security incidents. A document called ICT Incident Management has been prepared within this framework. Currently, the various partners of the Cybersecurity coalition are reviewing the document. Its validation is a task for the future Belgian Cyber Security Centre. In addition, taking into account the definition of critical infrastructure, a list of such infrastructure will have to be drawn up within the following weeks. The exercise will be done for critical infrastructure that falls within my jurisdiction. The various partners in the fight against cybercrime (police, justice, CERT.be, ADIV, State Security and others) work together on the plan, from prevention to follow-up. The Belgian Cybersecurity Centre, as a national authority, has as its central mission, I quote Article 3 of the Royal Decree of October 2014: "To supervise, coordinate and ensure the implementation of the Belgian cybersecurity strategy, to manage, through an integrated and centralised approach, the various cybersecurity projects and to ensure their coordination between the services and authorities concerned but also between the public authorities and the private sector or the scientific world". It also manages crisis management in the event of cyber incidents in cooperation with the Government's Coordination and Crisis Centre. Its other tasks are support missions: to develop safety standards, guidelines and standards, to formulate regulatory proposals, to inform and raise awareness among stakeholders, to coordinate Belgian representation at international forums, and to coordinate the evaluation and certification of system safety. We also stress the responsibility of every individual, company or government department to secure their systems against cyberattacks. To this end, a guide, the Belgian Cyber Security Guide, has been developed. It is available in hard copy but is also available on the website of the Belgian Cybercrime Centre of Excellence for Training, Research and Education. In response to your fourth question, on 16 and 17 April 2015 the Global Conference on Cyberspace was held in The Hague, Netherlands. The aim of this conference, organised for the fourth time, is to improve international collaboration in the field of the Internet. Online security was one of the important themes. Governments from different countries as well as international organizations, businesses and social organizations participated. Our country, and in particular my firm, were also represented. We are looking at the possibility of bilateral cooperation with our neighbouring countries and with other European countries. In addition, partners in the fight against cybercrime, such as the police and CERT, maintain contacts with their European counterparts, Europol and CERT-EU. As for your fifth question, the 3.5 billion euros that appear in the press as part of the launch of the Cyber Security Coalition in October 2014 are an estimate of the cost of cybercrime to society. The budget released by the government in 2014 for the fight against cybercrime was EUR 10 million. This amount was included in the future Centre for Cyber Security Belgium. With regard to your sixth question, as in 2014, at the time of the initial budget 2015, the government had provided €10 million in the interdepartmental provision for cyber security spending. During the last budgetary control, additional appropriations were released for everything related to cyber security as well. The Council of Ministers will soon decide on a list of security investments. The various departments concerned by the problem having obtained additional appropriations will have the opportunity to explain the readjustment of their budget and the allocation of resources to cybersecurity during the discussion on the adjustment of the budget law. We have set aside a total of $200 million for security investments, among others. This list of specific investments to which this amount will be allocated is being prepared. It will be available next week or later.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic165x.u24	Thank you for your detailed answer which specifies the methodology you follow. As you announce a number of initiatives that are being developed or implemented, I will have the opportunity to return, particularly in the context of budgetary control, to the state of the matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic165x.u25	Mr President, Minister, this has already been the subject of much controversy. Your government agreement has identified security as one of its top priorities. However, the federal budget provided for a 2% reduction in federal allocations to police areas, saving the federal budget some EUR 14.5 million, without much consultation with local authorities. Thus, the opinion of the Court of Auditors of 21 November 2014 on the 2015 Federal Budget pointed out that such an economy required the adaptation of the Royal Decree of 2 August 2002 establishing the federal standard for the financing of police areas. In the Committee on the Interior, on 9 December 2014, you stated that the adaptation of the KUL standard, provided for in the Royal Decree mentioned above, was under consideration, while stressing that the reduction of 2% should not have a significant impact on the budget of the police areas. The many concerns expressed by trade unions, representatives of local authorities, associations of towns and municipalities about this reduction, which has consequences for the organization of certain services, are well known. You know the budgetary constraints that also affect most local authorities that they are not always able to fill. You came up with an argument that was to say: "The reduction of staffing in police areas can be justified because, in any case, there will be an index jump." Except maybe the index jump isn't going to happen this year. It will probably take place next year. But this year, staffing is already reduced. Thus, with a constant budgetary policy in terms of staff expenditure – it is known that in police areas budgetary appropriations are allocated between 85 and 90 % to staff expenditure – even without an index jump, the reduction of 2 % now affects the capacity of appropriations released for even the replacement of retired officials or police officers. I would like some guidance for the future. Not only are there already consequences but, to understand your reasoning, you would then have to tell us that as soon as there is a return to wage indexation, there will be a restoration of staffing at least with a catch-up calculation of lost indexation. I would like to know if your reasoning, which tries to justify the decrease in staffing in police areas, will have at least its parallel when the time comes when the index jump will no longer apply. What about the adaptation of the Royal Decree referred to above? More generally, I know that there is a working group, I am informed by the conference of the mayors, particularly with the Brussels Region, but it is time to rethink the KUL standard. I don't know if you have this will to really get to the end of a logic of putting the system of financing the police zones down on the basis of current criteria.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic165x.u26	Mr Maingain, I have indeed received the requests of the communal councils mentioned in your question. In the near future, a letter will be sent to the municipalities concerned. In general, I can already reassure the police areas: I have done everything possible to mitigate this decision to cut the budget by 2%. First of all, let me make it clear that it does not cover all federal staffing in police areas. It is limited to the basic federal grant, the supplementary federal grant and the allocation related to the implementation of the Salduz Act. Therefore, it is not concerned with staffing for recruitment, maintenance of public order and those from the Road Safety Fund. In addition, this decrease will occur after the amounts have been indexed. Indexation is 1.3%. It is therefore in fact only in the order of 0.7%. I have also put all the necessary means in place to liquidate the balance of the 2009 Road Safety Fund, i.e. 9 million for the integrated police, and obtained the agreement, during the last budgetary conclave, to make the payment of the 2010 road safety fund, i.e. 26 million. These two amounts, which are not included in the PLP 53 or in the budgets of the police areas, will make it possible to compensate favourably for the 0.7% reduction applied to certain allocations. I performed a simulation of the entire 2015 endowments for all police areas, correction for the negative indexation 2014 included. The result is positive everywhere, there is no loss. In addition, military reinforcements have been made available to several police areas, including some Brussels police areas, in order to secure certain sites. This has made it possible to relieve the local police force and direct them to its core missions. The cost is fully reflected in the federal police budget. It is also up to me to recall the effort made by the Federal State in 2014 for the benefit of the police areas by taking full responsibility for the amount of the regularisation of the holiday money for the years 2009 and 2010. This amounts to more than 28 million. In addition, during the last budgetary conclave of March 2015, which I referred to in the last question, I managed to obtain additional resources, some of which will be used for the operation of the integrated police. As far as your second question is concerned, the amounts originally entered have not been changed, but, as I have just explained, other additional means have been identified for the integrated police. On the third question, I will be very honest: the updating of the KUL standard is not included as a target in the government agreement of 9 October 2014. Nevertheless, and you referred to it, I agreed to entrust a working group at the level of the police areas of the Brussels-Capital Region with the task of objecting to the financial situation of the police areas of the Brussels-Capital Region. This work is under way. Finally, as far as the years ahead are concerned, we will stick to what was decided at the Council of Ministers on 15 October 2014 regarding the 2014-2019 budget. "In consultation with the municipalities and police areas, the index will be limited for the coming years." I will begin this consultation shortly for these purposes. I am in the process of finalizing the draft royal decree on the new composition of the council of mayors.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic165x.u27	Your answer certainly has the merit of being frank. I'm not saying she's satisfactory. On the KUL standard, it is true that you have agreed to open a debate with the conference of mayors in Brussels on the subject, even if it is not a political objective. We will see if we can change this debate, which is really the heart of the problem of funding police areas, not just in Brussels. When the KUL standard does not take into account the demographic changes that are more pronounced in large cities, and it is not specific in Brussels, we can reflect on a development that will benefit the largest cities in the country's three regions. I say this to disassemble any community or other ulterior thinking. Secondly, in your answer, very skilfully, but without convincing me, you say that there has been a reduction in basic endowments. Yes, but not some additional allocations. I will repeat the calculations, but the basic, principal and complementary allocations represent the substantial share of federal funding to the police areas. The others are complementary amounts, which I do not neglect, but which are not decisive for the financing of police areas. You say, in terms of cash flow, that as you are going to give up arrears, which are due in particular by the mechanism of the road safety fund, we are not going to feel in our budget today the consequences of the reduction of the basic allocation by 2%. This is obviously a mistake because by reducing the basic allocation by 2%, on the day on which, eventually, indexation will be resumed, it will be done on the basis that has been reduced. That was the subject of my question. I wanted to know if, in your budgetary logic, you were going to at least re-establish the initial amount on the day the full indexation mechanism resumes. That for immediate budgetary reasons you still make a decrease and that you make up for other revenue in terms of cash flow, it will ultimately forever affect the 2% decrease in the base allocation and that will forever determine the calculation of the evolution over time of these endowments. That's the problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic165x.u28	Minister, I had already asked you, a few months ago, about the ability of prosecutors to deal with driving offences and about the fact that the increasing number of offences found by the police services was now forcing the courts to impose quotas of PVs not to exceed, so that they could all be dealt with. The question then arose as to what would become of "non-quota" developing countries. Indeed, this new system results in those who accept the financial transaction being penalized compared to those who do not accept it and whose infringement cannot be dealt with by the prosecution for lack of means. They can then pass between the meshes of the net. It would seem that a solution can be found so that, as the Constitution specifies, Belgians are all equal before the law. Thus, small speeding could be decriminalized. They would no longer go through the public prosecutor's offices, decongesting them with less serious offences. On the other hand, small excesses would be punishable by an administrative fine, as is the case with parking offences. However, this raises the question of revenue for the State. While the revenues from the minutes for speeding up are now collected by the federal state, if administrative fines were applied to small excesses, this would mean that the Regions would collect the amounts. Mr Minister, is the idea of decriminalizing small speeding a serious proposal that you are considering, in consultation with the Minister of Justice, to optimize the congestion of prosecutors while ensuring punishment for all offences? How can you put this system in place in consultation with the Regions? Can you assess the impact of such a measure on the revenue of the State or at least take stock of the case, because I would like to see more clarity in this matter?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic165x.u29	Mrs Cassart-Mailleux, first of all, allow me to correct some of the information contained in your presentation. Not all VP revenues for speeding are collected by the federal government. Indeed, in the context of the sixth reform of the State and the regionalisation of certain categories of road traffic offences, a large part of the revenue, particularly in the area of off-highway speed, goes to the three Regions of the country, since 1 January 2015. In addition to the existing powers, the Regions have become competent to lay down administrative and criminal penalties for non-compliance with regionalised road traffic police rules. According to Article 11 of the Special Law of 8 August 1980 on Institutional Reforms, the Regions may criminalise and punish, incidentally, non-compliance with the provisions which they enact within the framework of the substantive powers relating to the rules of the Road Code which have been transferred to them in the context of the Sixth State Reform. Consequently, the Regions are free to decriminalize the said speed excesses off-highway. They can exercise this prerogative autonomously, but in consultation with the public prosecutor's offices and my colleague, the Minister of Justice. At the federal level, several avenues are currently being considered to reduce the congestion of the public prosecutor's offices. As an example, I would like to refer to the payment order bill, the primary objective of which is to reduce the workload of the latter. This project comes from the departments of Justice and Mobility. As far as speeding on motorways is concerned, a possible decriminalisation is not on the agenda. Finally, a possible decriminalization of small excesses off-highway will have no negative financial impact on the federal state. Rather, it would lead to positive effects, since the administrative treatment currently carried out by bodies under federal authority – the prosecution and the police – will be carried out by the Regions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic165x.u30	Minister, thank you for the comprehensiveness of your answer. I understand how you're going to deal with this problem. This sixth reform of the state obviously gives us new information. I'm looking forward to the direction you're taking. Good news: it will have no impact on the government's revenue. In addition, we will not decriminalize small speeding on highways. I thank you, therefore, for the clarification you have given me. I learned things again this afternoon.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic165x.u31	Minister, about a week ago, the media reported that the flashlights in the province of Antwerp had been inactive for three weeks because of a lack of staff and resources in the federal police, and that did not allow all the police reports for speeding offences to be processed. Apparently, for each flashed vehicle, the owner must be identified manually, which is very labour-intensive, that goes without saying. In the absence of manpower, the province decided to take out the flashlights until the Home Office provided additional resources. You were pretty much put on the spot. Apparently, in my police zone, barely four people should be strong enough to do all that. If that is true, it is of course very limited. I can't confirm those numbers. I am more concerned that, for this reason, in a region with busy jobs, flashlights are being switched off, because they have to make traffic safety more secure. At the deadly intersections on the A12, for example, it is very important to catch the speed devils. It is not explained to the public that, if one does not rebuild the dangerous intersections, the flashlights will also be switched off. That is quite dangerous, because it has a direct impact on road safety. I would therefore like to thank you very much for making sure that the lights were switched on again on weekends. I hope that solution wasn't just for the weekend, but permanent. What do you think of the police's measure to disable flashlights in the absence of resources? Were you aware of this before the report came to the media? I think that is a critical measure. How many agents and resources are currently available to deal with such violations and fines? Weren't there any problems before? Were there more of them and now there are fewer of them? How many are needed in the future to deal with this adequately? In the event of a stoppage of the safety cameras, there is not only a problem with road safety, but also no offence is detected and no fine is paid and collected. How much fine revenue did the government fail? Do you have a visual on the numbers? It is also interesting to know how many fines were issued per flash pole in the province of Antwerp in recent years. This will undoubtedly require a detailed answer, and I understand that you may not be able to give an answer today. I am satisfied with a written reply, because from these figures we can find out for which points more than a flash pole is needed to reduce speed, for example infrastructure interventions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic165x.u32	It goes without saying that I will and will do everything in my power to avoid the shutdown of safety cameras due to a lack of resources. On 28 April last, so two days before the television reportage, my policy cell discussed this issue with the federal police. So I was aware of the problem. Together with the federal police, we have worked out solutions. Already in December 2014, my policy cell received a first signal about the difficult staff status of the regional processing centre of the federal road police in Antwerp. In particular, it referred to the need to make it possible to fill vacancies with the funds of the Road Safety Fund. To give you an idea, previous recruitment initiatives in 2012 and 2013 did not find enough candidates. In addition, a recruitment stop was introduced at federal level at the end of 2014. The recruitment engagements in the Road Safety Fund have thus not been met since 2012. Partly because of the departure of some staff, who were not replaced, there is now a deficit. Moreover, since April 2015, the regional processing centre Antwerp has been entrusted with additional administrative work as a result of the new inflow policy of the parquet. After all, the federal road police Antwerp must now be responsible for the identification of all drivers of rental or leasing vehicles. This new task of the public prosecutor ensures that the federal road police have to identify about 11,000 drivers every year in a manual manner, ranging from various searches, writing envelopes, to even sticking stamps. At best, this takes 40 minutes per file. This new inflow policy therefore requires additional capacity of at least five FTS per year. This work is normally carried out by CALog employees, but is currently also done by operational staff. In short, the combination of the staff shortage with the new public prosecutor's guidelines has made the situation in GVC Antwerp problematic over the past few weeks. Together with the actors involved, the federal road police, Justice and the Flemish Minister of Mobility, we are looking for a solution. At present, there are six staff members in the GVC Antwerp: three police inspectors to review all traffic infringements and three CaLog employees for further administrative handling. Of these, one works half-time and one goes on maternity leave from 1 June 2015 until 30 September 2015. Of course, it's been awarded to her. In the past, the GVC Antwerp had a colleague. The ratio of operational member versus CaLog was standardised. As a measure, a minimum of one and a half CaLog employees per operational member are used for administrative handling, including the telephone customer welcome. Through the 2012 and 2013 Road Safety Funds, three police officers and three additional administrative staff were assigned to the Antwerp GVC respectively, but for the reason I mentioned earlier, they were not recruited. Since both the operators and the CaLog employees of the Antwerp GVC are currently in charge of identifying overdue files of the public prosecutor's office, the delay continues. During a consultation with the road police it was agreed to work out a structural solution by the beginning of June 2015, i.e. next month. The federal police have committed themselves to finding a clear solution internally by shifting a number of staff, two persons per day, in particular one inspector and one CaLog employee. This should allow for the period until the beginning of June 2015. As a result, the flash poles were gradually activated again since Friday night May 1st. That date of May 1 was not premeditated at all. As far as another question is concerned, the federal road police have no idea of the unidentified infringements, nor of the unrecovered revenues during the inactivity of the flash camera dynamometers. An estimate can only be made on the basis of a comparable period. The GVC Antwerp manages 17 fixed cameras on the motorways and six mobile cameras for the 18 poles on the A12. The number of infringements per year completed in 2010 was 106 000, 146 000 in 2011, 175 000 in 2012, 232 000 in 2013, 192 000 in 2014 and in January and February of this year 34 000. You'll get the exact figures on paper. The 17 cameras on the motorways are speed cameras. The six cameras on the A12 are red light and speed camera dynamometers. They can be moved to 18 locations. Due to the mobility of the camera dynamometers, an automatic search of the number of violations per flash pole is not possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic165x.u33	Minister, it is, of course, a problem to pass on tasks in a chain of police, justice and local authorities, because there is always another government that is affected by this. The policy pursued by the public prosecutor has an impact on the police. That's what we've been afraid of for a long time. If you go further, it will also have an impact on local authorities. It is very important that there should be consultation on this so that solutions can be found. It is, of course, about the whole province, but if we look at the dangerous A12 alone with its deadly intersections, then such a decision is unacceptable. According to your figures, the findings are crescendo. This shows that more will be needed, but that debate obviously does not belong in the Chamber. For that, we will have to be across the street. However, the figures in themselves show that infrastructure interventions are needed. I knew that the police were understaffed, because they had whispered that to me, but it is aberrant that there is so little to deal with so many findings. It does show that, if all the actors work together, we might be able to do something about road safety. I am glad that it is being resolved and I hope that it will be resolved permanently, Minister, because we cannot afford to do nothing about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic165x.u34	Debates of the European Parliament 4105 by Mr Metsu has been postponed. Mrs Vanheste is not here. We haven't been able to reach her, and she hasn't been able to tell us. As a result, her question No. 4116, in accordance with Article 127, 10 of the Rules of Procedure, considered repealed. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Temmerman's 4149 has been postponed. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Kir's 4162 was converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Demeyer's 4166 has been postponed.
