ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic093x.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, you have seen at the invitation that the meeting will only last until 4.25 p.m., because the Foreign Minister has an unscheduled meeting with President Abbas. He'll find another date to deal with the questions. Anyone who converts his question into a written question can immediately retrieve the answer from the employee who sits on the left of the minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic093x.u2	Mr President, in view of the full agenda, I will not need my full ten minutes. I think I can give a brief and concise outline of the problem. Mr Minister, this is not the first time I have interplayed with you on this issue. The situation was not much better during the previous legislature. Each year, the European Commission presents a progress report on the countries negotiating accession to the European Union. This includes Turkey for nine years, although in this case it should be said that an annual decline report is urgently needed. In the meantime, the list of annual complaints is known: serious violations of the principles of the rule of law, human rights, freedom of the press, the rights of non-Muslims and so on. In this respect, there is little news under the sun with this latest progress report. Every year, the European Union identifies the same shortcomings and shortcomings. Instead of reducing the existing abuses, the Turkish Government ensures that the list becomes even longer each year. For example, in its latest report, the Commission is once again deeply concerned about the independence of the judiciary, the separation of powers and the fight against corruption in Turkey. This includes the dismissal of hundreds of police officers and judges involved in the investigation of a large-scale corruption scandal involving prominent personalities from President Erdogan's entourage. Then there is the excessive police violence against demonstrators, the intimidation and persecution of journalists, attacks on social media such as Youtube and Twitter and so on. New laws would further restrict freedom of the press and freedom of expression. Apparently, it's not bad enough. In other words, the only reforms mentioned are not so much aimed at increasing the democratic character of the Turkish state as at further strengthening the pre-existing police state and the grip of the AKP on Turkish society. Mr Minister, I submitted my speech four months ago. In the meantime, there have been nothing but objectionable facts. I am thinking first of all of the Turkish President's statements on women. He says that women and men are absolutely not equal. In his opinion, women differ so much that they cannot be placed at the level of men at all. I wonder what your reaction is to such statements, Minister. I'll give you another example recently. The Turkish government is having problems with Twitter again. The court actually demanded that an account of a newspaper be closed. The Birgün newspaper in question had posted leaked documents that would show that an aid convoy to the Turkmen minority in Syria was in fact carrying weapons rather than devices. In response, the court ruled that Twitter should remove the account from that newspaper. If Twitter didn't, Twitter in Turkey had to be completely blocked. Let me give you another example. After the attacks in Paris, a court decided to block sites that put the new edition of Charlie Hebdo online. The decisions come not only from the judicial side. The police are also acting against the freedom of the press. When the left-wing newspaper Hürriyet published an annex with four pages of the new edition of Charlie Hebdo, a truck with newspapers was stopped when the police left the printing works. This shows that freedom of the press has not really improved since the latest progress report. The politicians are doing a little bit more on top of that. They are at the forefront of the great march for freedom of expression in Paris in the context of democracy and freedom of the press, but the Turkish Prime Minister, who was also present, does say that Charlie Hebdo's caricatures are serious provocations and that freedom of expression is not at all the same as a freedom to offend. Erdogan himself added a little to it by the causes of the attacks in Paris due to Islamophobia and racism. Mr Minister, I could make my list of examples much longer, but I think it is clear that we will not get far by repeatedly expressing our concern about developments in Turkey, as the European Commission does, in every progress report. Since the accession negotiations began, the Commission has been in a kind of permanent state of concern, and after that it is struggling to draw the necessary conclusions from its own findings. Unfortunately, that still doesn't happen today. If it depends on the European Commission, two new chapters will even be opened in the accession negotiations, because that is literally what the progress report says: Turkey needs more European commitment to help it become a modern European state. That is, of course, the world upside down. My question to you is very clear: what else should be done to make it clear in the European Union that these accession negotiations must be stopped?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic093x.u3	Mr President, Minister, the International Day against Violence against Women took place on Tuesday 24 November. Of course, we are still far from the ideal that women would no longer suffer violence; in Belgium alone we are talking about seven reported rapes a day. The same week, the Turkish President Erdogan put a shovel on top of that. He said that women and men are not equal. He also did so at a conference in Istanbul on women and justice. He thus gave a full room full of women his vision of how we should live our lives. In short, for him, the woman is a purely reproductive ecosystem and the woman should know her place in society. This vision comes from the President of a neighbouring country, which is also a candidate country. That's pretty shocking for me anyway. However, it seems to fit in with the blurring of the separation between church and state. The historically liberal Turkish state is increasingly losing its independence from certain religious ideas. This concerns me, because I see it happening that we suddenly have to take certain religious rules and taboo themes into account at the European negotiating table. However, I noticed in your policy statement that you spoke of a further deepening of the European Union rather than an enlargement. On the other hand, it is difficult to put an end to accession negotiations. I wonder what a country needs to do to lose an offered prospect of accession. Then I ask my second question, following an event that took place a few weeks later. Once again, this is a flagrant violation of human rights, in particular freedom of the press and freedom of expression in Turkey. During an arrest wave in 13 cities 23 people were arrested, including two former police chiefs. There were also several raids at newspapers and television stations. These arrests are likely to be part of a corruption scandal surrounding President Erdogan with an additional political scandal. There is also the problem between Erdogan and opposition leader Gülen. Gülen is a well-known Muslim intellectual trying to develop a modern Islamic vision, but President Erdogan sees Gülen and his followers as terrorists preparing a coup. A report by Reporters Without Borders also shows that Turkey is currently in 154th place on freedom of the press. All these violations of human rights make me ask a number of questions. What do you think of President Erdogan's statements? Are these compatible with the European project, in your opinion? Were his statements raised at the Foreign Affairs Council? Are there any implications for these statements in the context of the accession talks? Has there been an official response from Belgium or the European Union?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic093x.u4	Mrs Pas, Mrs Capoen, ladies and gentlemen, your questions and your interplay give me the opportunity to comment on recent developments in Turkey and perhaps also on their possible impact on the accession negotiations. Like the European Commission, the European Council and the other European partners, I am concerned about the situation in this country. I am particularly concerned about the lack of independence of justice, the unclear separation of powers, the violations of freedom of the press, freedom of expression and assembly. President Erdogan's statements on women have also raised a great deal of concern for me and my fellow MEPs. We have been concerned about the general human rights situation in Turkey for several years. My administration is closely monitoring the situation, paying particular attention to our priorities, such as freedom of expression, the fight against impunity, women's rights and the rights of the child. This work takes place both in Brussels and in Istanbul and Ankara, where our diplomats are particularly active in the field of human rights issues. How does this Belgian reaction relate to those of other relevant bodies? At international level, follow-up is taking place at several levels: on the one hand, there is the European level, on the other hand, the United Nations level. I will deal with three points, first of all with the arrests of journalists. On 14 December 2014, the High Representative of the EU Mogherini and Commissioner for Enlargement, Hahn, in a joint statement, responded rapidly and sharply to the arrests of journalists: "This operation goes against the European values and standards Turkey aspires to be part of and which are the core of informed relations." We expect that the strong EU- commitment given by our Turkish counterparts during our visit to be translated into does. This issue was also discussed at the General Affairs Council on 16 December 2014. The conclusions adopted at that time make explicit reference to this. At the time when Belgium took over the presidency of the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe, the Secretary-General of this organisation also condemned these arrests. Secondly, I come to the situation of women in Turkey. Within the United Nations, Belgium is also active in the field of human rights in Turkey, in particular within the UN Human Rights Council. During the last session of the Universal Periodic Review, our country took the floor to make a series of recommendations to Turkey. The UPR procedure also provides for the possibility of sending written questions to the country concerned. Belgium has done the same. I can confirm that a series of questions put by our country explicitly deal with women's rights, in particular those relating to anti-discrimination legislation, the right of women to equal representation in politics, economic and social life, as well as the measures necessary to combat violence against women effectively by prosecuting and protecting, compensating and rehabilitating victims. In its oral intervention on 27 January 2015, Belgium also recommended Turkey to take the necessary policy and legislative measures to put an end to the practice of child marriages. Thirdly, what are the consequences of the general situation for the accession talks with the European Union? While the events of recent weeks confirm our concern, we should also welcome the progress which I particularly wish to underline: the acceptance of a democratisation package, the adoption of an action plan to bring Turkish legislation into line with the case law of the European Court of Human Rights, the evolution of the Kurdish question and the positive role of the Constitutional Court, which has cancelled some of the decisions of the executive. The balance is clearly mixed. I therefore support the European Commission's recommendation to open chapters 23 and 24. This is the most appropriate way to respond to the developments I have outlined here. An important preliminary step would be to update the opening criteria for these two chapters and transfer them to Turkey. In this way, Turkey would receive a roadmap for the reforms to be undertaken in the areas covered by Chapters 23 and 23 of the Constitutional Treaty and 24 of the Constitutional Treaty. It is, in particular, by opening a new dialogue platform with Turkey on these sensitive issues that we can make significant progress and ensure that reforms become irreversible. So that is not a favour to Turkey, but rather a challenge that the country needs to meet. I would like to add something about our relationship with Turkey. We are also in a coalition with Turkey against Daesh in Iraq. We are also trying to exchange more and more information with Turkey. For a few years now we have been holding trilateral meetings with the three ministers on both sides, namely those of Foreign Affairs, Home Affairs and Justice. So we are also trying to cooperate correctly with Turkey in this area. I repeat, however, that is no reason not to continue our criticism of different aspects of Turkey's policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic093x.u5	Minister, I share your concern and your criticism of Turkey. [[Unfortunately, however, I cannot help but notice that we are working with double standards and two weights.]] If there is an attack in Paris, where journalists and cartoonists are murdered because of their opinion, then they are shocked and there are large marches in which the Turkish Prime Minister walks. However, when it comes to Turkey itself, nowhere in the world are they in prison as many journalists and cartoonists as there are, then it does not go beyond what I am concerned about. The permanent state of concern, which I have just mentioned, is reappeared in every progress report from the Commission. People don't get any further than that. You are talking about recommendations given to Turkey. In the context of these accession negotiations, Turkey has been making recommendations for nine years. In practice, it can only be seen that the situation there is getting worse and that this tactic is not working. I wonder what still needs to be done to finally draw the right consequences and consequences. By opening two new chapters in the negotiations, you are ignoring the fact that Turkey is in manifest violation of these conditions of accession. In doing so, you also de facto honour the abuses of the Turkish Government. In 2005, the promise was made to European public opinion that negotiations could be terminated at any time if it appeared that a candidate country was clearly violating the conditions. I wonder how many conditions Turkey still has to trample on so that these negotiations can be effectively stopped. We are now nine years after the start of the accession negotiations with Turkey. Turkey is still a long way from European minimum standards after nine years. If, in recent years, the country has come a long way, it is rather a backward road, which is increasingly farther away from the European Union. If the European Union still wants to maintain a little credibility, there is no point in making recommendations for the umpteenth time and expressing its concern for the umpteenth time. It must at least show decisiveness and at last stop the accession talks with Turkey. After all, it's been enough. Mr President, I would therefore like to make a motion for a recommendation in this direction. I'll hand them over to you as well.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic093x.u6	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your answers. I will briefly represent the N-VA position. Firstly, we are in favour of further deepening before further enlargement of the European Union can take place. Enlargement must be taken into account without losing its own European dynamism. That is why we also rely on the Copenhagen criteria, such as stable institutions, a rule of law and a functioning market economy. Because of all these criteria and the concerns that arise, of course, the question arises whether Turkey will ever be able to meet those basic conditions. With those words, I'll finish my reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic093x.u7	At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Barbara Pas and reads as follows: The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mrs Barbara Pas and the reply of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Foreign Affairs and European Affairs with responsibility for Beliris and the Federal Cultural Institutions, calls on the federal government to adopt a clear position within all sections of the European Union on the permanent cessation of negotiations on Turkey's accession to the European Union." A motion for recommendation was tabled by Ms. Barbara Pas and reads as follows: The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Mrs Barbara Pas and the response of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Foreign and European Affairs, responsible for Beliris and the Federal Cultural Institutions, asks the federal government to take a clear position, at all levels of power in the European Union, in favour of the definitive cessation of Turkey's accession negotiations to the European Union." A simple motion was tabled by Mrs Sarah Claerhout and by Mr Peter Luykx and Mr Richard Miller. A simple motion was tabled by Sarah Claerhout and MM. Peter Luykx and Richard Miller. Again a divided government... there's a missing signature of a majority party. Motions for resolutions will be voted on at a later date b. The meeting's over. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Luykx suggested that we first discuss the debate on Ukraine, because this is a topical issue. Can you agree to that?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic093x.u8	On a proposal from the Minister's cabinet, we would like to ask questions under point 42, question No. 1490 by Mr Luykx and Question No 2190 by Mr Claerhout on South Ossetia, as well as Question No 2160 by Mr Luykx on Moldova. These issues are in line with Ukraine's problems. The Minister would also like to discuss these issues in his general answer. Can the Members of this House agree to that?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic093x.u9	Mr President, in the interests of efficiency and time management, I will be rather synthetic. It is true that this is a subject that we have already often discussed. I will introduce my questions directly. My first questions concern the rise of tension in Ukraine, particularly in the Mariupol region. They are also linked to the situation of the Russian-speaking minority in eastern Ukraine, who claim to be primarily Ukrainian and not pro-Russian, as the Western press tends to suggest. This population feels discriminated against or even persecuted. Evidence of mass massacres and the presence of mass mass graves in this region is, to say the least, intriguing. I'm sure you have information in that direction. In addition to the extension of the list of persons punished for their involvement in the Ukrainian conflict, how could the policy of European sanctions evolve? NATO reinforces its military presence in direct proximity to Russia's borders, towards what kind of scenario are we heading? Some speak of a return to a total war, others of a frozen conflict, as many of them are known in the region with a status quo in the south-east. We know it can last a long time. How do you feel about this? Ukrainian President Poroshenko announced the suspension of all financial aid in Donbass, precisely where this long-held Russian-speaking community has been living. 2.6 billion euros in salaries, pensions, etc. are blocked, aggravating the catastrophic social situation of the inhabitants of the area. How does the European Union stand in the face of this decision? In addition, Ukraine enjoys a very important support from the West: a 27 billion-dollar rescue plan granted in the spring, including a 17 billion-dollar loan. What about the East? Will the aid be able to do so and in what form? To go back to the diplomatic crisis between Russia and the West with the heavy trade consequences that we are experiencing as a result of this embargo, there is a boon effect, an opportunity that presents itself for different countries such as China but also for many Latin American countries, such as Brazil, and even Switzerland. If a firm attitude towards Russia on the part of the European Union is fully justified until an effective escalation is observed, there is a fear that the Russian market will be rapidly occupied and possibly long-term by those who are not subject to sanctions. How do you look at this situation? What is the status of the situation? To what extent is the political objective of these sanctions achieved? How does the European Union position itself in this respect? Could you give us an account of the situation for the companies of affected Belgian producers? How far have exports to the various Belgian sectors concerned evolved? How could we change the situation? What is the impact of the measures taken to support these sectors? Why does the European Union not seem to develop a common policy of aid to all sectors, such as fruits? Finally, there is a rise in power with the recent rocket launcher attack. We feel that tension is now at its peak. We're close to war, or at least not far. This new escalation in the conflict is indeed a major attack on the ceasefire so hard-won in September. How do you look at the situation? How does it evolve? How can we help the civilian population who feel drawn, trapped in this war? What are the contributions of Belgium and the European Union in the search for de-escalation between the parties? What position did you take at the Council of the European Union for Foreign Affairs? Finally, the recent visit of the NATO Land Force Commander to Europe, Ben Hodges, to the Kiev Military Hospital shows the involvement of the United States in the Ukrainian crisis. US soldiers will be sent to Ukraine next spring, in just a few weeks. The provision of military assistance in Kiev was approved by Congress. What about the position of the European Union and our country in particular?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic093x.u10	Minister, I am glad to be able to ask some of my questions. I have to apologize: since we haven't seen each other for a while, some of the questions are outdated. So I have to adapt them a little bit and puzzle them, because international politics around this theme has quickly evolved. For a short time there has been a disruption of oil prices, reinforced by economic sanctions. This made it clear that the Russian economy is heavily dependent on its energy exports. All this has led to very serious problems that have not been without consequences in the social sphere. In the meantime, we have seen that the situation has accelerated in Eastern Ukraine and Crimea. Five thousand people died there and ten thousand were injured. In other words, there is a need for a comprehensive package of agreements to bring this crisis to a successful conclusion. Minister, I have a few questions for you. Firstly, do you think it would be advisable to organise talks between the EU and the Eurasian Union? Do you think it would be advisable to revive the NATO-Russia Council? Minister, what position do you take on the clearly unacceptable supply of arms and the financial support of heavy weapons to Russia's pro-Russian rebels? How do you think Europe can counter this sneaking strategy? Will you raise this issue during the EU Foreign Affairs Council? I have another question concerning a more topical situation. Last week, German Chancellor Merkel and French President Hollande moved to Kiev and Moscow, where they had talks with President Poroshenko of Ukraine and Russian President Putin. A number of issues were discussed which needed to be worked out at the new consultations, today in Minsk. These consultations will be attended by the negotiating States, as well as representatives of the OSCE and the Eastern Ukrainian separatists. The EU Foreign Affairs Council proposed an extension of the individuals who would be subject to EU sanctions. However, these sanctions were placed on hold until next Monday, pending the outcome of those talks in Minsk. Meanwhile, the US also states that they continue to consider the supply of arms to Ukraine. Mr Minister, can you explain the new talks that are taking place in Minsk? How do you estimate the attitude of the United States? Does President Putin, in your opinion, play a distribution and control strategy here by putting the EU and the US on different tracks? The EU High Representative Mogherini stated that only a diplomatic solution offers a way out of the conflict. What's your analysis on the subject? Finally, I come to my question about South Ossetia. The tensions at the eastern border of the EU are increasing Georgia's attention to the actors involved. Russia concluded an agreement with the region of Abkhazia. A similar agreement is also intended to be signed with the Georgian region of South Ossetia. These two regions are recognised by Russia as independent states. The EU condemned the agreement with Abkhazia and NATO also rejected it. Last week, NATO also announced a strengthening of cooperation between the organisation and Georgia, including the launch of a joint training and evaluation centre. Georgia's application for membership of NATO was also underlined once again. This is an important signal from NATO to Russia, where Russia has always distinguished between NATO Member States and OSCE Member States, where countries belonging to the OSCE but not to NATO are still subject to their control. Minister, can you explain and analyse the agreement with the Abkhazia region and the emerging agreement with South Ossetia? In this way, will Russia further fuel the conflict in these Georgian regions? What impact will this have on the relationship between Russia and Georgia, on the one hand, and Russia and the EU, NATO and the UN, on the other? Did you ask the Belgian representatives of the EU, the UN and NATO to put this item on the agenda? If so, what position will they defend there?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic093x.u11	Mr President, Deputy Prime Minister, negotiations seem to be speeding up in the Ukrainian conflict. This is essential because, in recent weeks, we have witnessed an intensification and there is now an urgent need to find a solution. The Russian, French, Ukrainian and German diplomatic advisers met yesterday in Minsk to prepare for this evening's summit, which is probably a final chance to find a reasonable outcome for the various protagonists. The United States, for its part, had made the choice this Monday to give a chance to the diplomacy led by the Franco-German couple and, as a first step, not to deliver arms to the Ukrainians. It is important that these discussions can succeed both for Ukraine and for Europe's stability in the coming years. Mr Deputy Prime Minister, what can we expect from today's summit in Minsk? Following the last European summits in December and January, what position should the European Union take in the negotiations in the face of the various Russian demands, for example the legal status of the Donbass or the guarantee that Ukraine will never join the European Union or NATO? More specifically, is there a consensus, a common vision between the Member States of the European Union? What are the points that are agreed and what are the stumbling blocks that persist? In the event that the diplomatic solution does not succeed, what do you think of the will of a part of the American political class to deliver arms to the Ukrainians? In view of its foreign policy, Russia is positioned as an influential actor of its "near stranger". What is the right long-term strategy for the European Union in the face of this policy? Do you think that the economic sanctions imposed on Russia by the European Union, which will be re-evaluated on 31 October this year, have a real impact on Russian foreign policy in the context of this Ukrainian issue? Finally, the Presidency of the Council of the European Union has been allocated to Latvia since 1 January. Donald Tusk, a Polish, has been President of the European Council since 1 December 2014. Given the sensitive historical history of these two countries with Russia, do you think that these two presidencies can have a particular influence on relations between the European Union and Russia in the coming months?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic093x.u12	Minister, we can actually say that there is a war going on in Europe. I am particularly concerned about the geopolitical situation, not just there but in general. We need a massive balancing exercise. I look forward, together with my fellow Members, to your views on the matter. How do you intend to maneuver into the delicate claws that have formed? After all, how we deal with the conflict and all those involved, including Russia, also has an impact on other ongoing conflicts, such as in Syria and Iraq. It's all connected. I also note with a number of colleagues in the committee that there is a huge need for dialogue and for keeping communication channels open, including with Russia, so that we can continue to work on a more or less diplomatic basis and hopefully seek a breakthrough and a solution. I do not know how far you can go in your statements, but I read a rather interesting article in De Standaard a while ago that I would like to present to you. It outlined future scenarios for Eastern Ukraine, in cooperation with a number of experts and academics. To sum it up, it comes down to the following. In the first scenario, Crimea would be for Moscow and the Donetsk Basin for Kiev. In the second scenario, the Donets Basin would become a kind of mini- or quasi-state, such as Transnistria. In the third scenario, Ukraine would have the same status as Austria after the Second World War, with a very strict neutrality. In the fourth scenario, of course, there will not be a diplomatic solution, but a further escalation of violence. They're not new analyses, but I'd like to present them to you with a few questions. What scenario does your preference take away? What is acceptable to you and what is not? How far does Belgian diplomacy intend to respond to Russian sensitivities? Do you think that Russia is entitled to an atmosphere of influence? To what extent do you wish to take this into account in a scheme supported or sought by you? To be honest, we must learn lessons from the past and take effective account of that sphere of influence. I advocate realism. Just now, Mr Claerhout referred to NATO and Georgia. We really need to pay attention. I also refer to the events that have taken place in Ukraine. I remember a number of politicians who climbed on stage and in a very militant way advocated further cooperation between Ukraine and the European Union. I thought that was very unwise at the time, and I keep repeating it. Are you prepared to accept an attachment of Crimea to Russia? If so, under what conditions? Is the possible autonomy for Eastern Ukraine already a crossing station? Do we want to move on to independence? What do you think of the scenario that Ukraine should opt for a strictly neutral status vis-à-vis the European Union, on the one hand, and the Eurasian bloc, on the other?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic093x.u13	The conflict in Kiev has accelerated diplomatically. There is also a rapid acceleration on the ground, as the number of incidents and fighting has increased. The fact that one is related to the other is perhaps understandable. Mrs Merkel and the French President Hollande's entire démarche points to a sense of urgency and is not immediately reassuring. If there are no unexpected twists and turns, the leaders of the Norman quartet will meet again today. We must be aware of how close this conflict is. Yesterday's rocket attacks in Kramatorsk are, as it were, a shot in the face of these negotiations. The images show how terrifyingly close it is to the citizens there, but also to Europe. The distance between Kiev and Brussels is about 1 800 kilometres, the same distance that separates Madrid or Athens from Brussels. This war is taking place in our comfort zone, in the front yard of Europe. It is very palpable and affects the European citizen. The path that must be followed to get out of this conflict is, for us, still a priority for diplomacy. The US and some Baltic states are calling for a more robust approach. The question is raised out loud whether the use of military support will shorten or escalate the conflict? Our group is in favour of continuing diplomatic efforts. We think it is very important that the diplomatic path is followed and, of course, that these negotiations succeed. If we want to maintain Europe as a global player, it must invest in diplomacy and foreign policy with one voice. This brings me to the background and to Russia itself. Initially, Russia had a view of strengthening its position. Some factors have played a role in Russia's advantage. However, the tide has turned after the downfall of the flight MH17, after which the West took its attitude hardened and economic measures that are palpable in Russia. In our view, this means that it is high time to achieve results in order to ensure stability in that region. A cat in a tight spot makes weird jumps. Under pressure from internal dissatisfaction and the miserable economic situation, Putin could opt for a move forward, for an aggressive foreign policy. We think it is absolutely important to think about this. If the root of diplomacy does not benefit, then one must look for another stick, whatever it may be, which can lead to a solution. Minister, many questions have already been asked and I will not read all my questions literally. However, I was asked to put together three questions. One of my questions is about Moldova and South Ossetia, where I ask, with nuances, about the attitude of Belgium and Europe in this regard. How do you see that? My questions about Kiev are summarized. Were you involved in the preparation of the diplomatic talks between France and Germany? What is the state of the government's view on possible weapons? A possible armament was put on the table by Obama. Does our government take a strong stand on this? How did your contact with Vice President Joe Biden go in Brussels? Were there also talks about the conflict in Ukraine and agreements made? Can you explain your position on Moldova and South Ossetia, two similar dossiers?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic093x.u14	Mr Minister for Foreign Affairs, I would first like to say, like other colleagues, that I am extremely concerned about the current situation on the border between Russia and Ukraine. Concern about Russia's rather irrational nature, which gives the impression of playing European diplomacy, American diplomacy, and which has become accustomed to lying and cheating on its real intentions since the beginning of the tensions. It has been almost a year since the Crimean annexation process began. A year later, Russia continues its aggression against Ukraine, despite the sanctions, despite the human cost, despite the enormous consequences on its economy and the social situation of the Russian population, which seems, in reality, to be President Putin's last concern. This conflict between Russia and Ukraine has resulted in thousands of deaths and the displacement of a million people inside Ukraine. What is frightening, and I do not agree at all with my colleague De Vriendt, is that Russia has just returned to this old concept, very nineteenth century of "zone of influence", of imperial Russia which intends to have vassal states around it, which would not have to decide their own destiny without Russia's green light. When these states decide or wish to join the European Union, they must have Russia's green light; when these states decide or wish to join NATO, they must have Russia's green light. We do not see in the name of which principle and right, in Europe and in the world of the 21st century, such ultra-nationalist principles, which flout international legality and international rights, would be accepted. It is a conception that I find extremely shocking. Vladimir Putin's forward flight continues and the situation has never been so dangerous for Ukraine's security, for Europe and for international stability. Everyone fears this escalation. I would like to pay tribute here to the efforts of European diplomacy. I would also like to welcome this determination to avoid war, even if we are already at war there, to avoid escalation. I think that Europe is doing everything it can to that end. I, like my colleagues, would like to have your analysis of the situation and possibly receive the latest news from Minsk today, to know exactly where the possibility of avoiding an escalation in this conflict is. Russia continues to deny that it has troops and tanks on the ground. I wish you could have told us what is happening and what your judgment is in this regard; what is the importance of armaments and troops deployed on Ukrainian territory; and more about the diplomatic efforts being made at the moment. Like other colleagues, I would like to know your views on the issue of arms delivery to Ukraine. Indeed, some European countries close to Russia are likely to be ready to deliver arms. Is there a common position of the members of the European Union or will each State act in dispersed order? I would also like to welcome the humanitarian aid that Belgium has provided to Ukraine recently. Could you give me more information about this? It appears that Belgium could increase its contingent of observers on the ground. What exactly is the situation? What timing is planned for this possible development of observers? I have heard that the quota of observers could be doubled. Finally, have you received any new information about the Ukrainian pilot, who seems not to have the right to receive visits, contrary to international conventions and the Geneva Convention on Prisoners of War?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic093x.u15	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, you will understand that, like you, I am very concerned about the situation in Ukraine. This is not only reflected in the meetings I have at the level of the Foreign Affairs Council. I have recently visited the Baltic countries, particularly Estonia, to attend meetings between Benelux - which Belgium is currently chairing - and the Baltic countries. I can tell you that, in the region, the concern is probably even greater. While our countries are particularly concerned about the fight against terrorism, the situation in Syria, the situation in Iraq and other countries in the region, the Baltic countries are almost exclusively concerned about Russia's possible action in Ukraine. More than a crisis, it is a real conflict with disastrous humanitarian and security consequences. In fact, there are more than 1.5 million internally displaced persons. War crimes are regularly committed in eastern Ukraine and the European security architecture is dangerously damaged. Our collective security is based, among other things, on the inviolability of borders, military transparency and respect for international commitments. All of this is being breached. In recent weeks, the situation has deteriorated further. As you know, I issued a communiqué on 25 January to highlight how shocked I was at the deadly and destructive impact on the civilian population of the recent outbreak of armed violence in eastern Ukraine. Never before in this conflict, the commitments made by the parties concerned have been in such a mismatch with reality on the ground. It is difficult to understand that the parties agree on a ceasefire to flout it almost immediately thereafter. A month ago, concern was expressed about the possible emergence of a new frozen conflict in Donbass; but today it is the magnitude, violence and apparent absence of limits of hostilities that have cause for concern. The rebels have recently intensified their bombings and occupied significant new parts of Ukrainian territory. The clashes have continued in recent days, even during the peace talks. We have clear indications of the presence of Russian troops in Ukraine through videos, photos and other evidence gathered by the Ukrainian side and by numerous testimonies of separatists, Russian soldiers and their families. This presence is variable. Among other things, there are volunteers funded from abroad, special forces and regular Russian forces. Estimates of their numbers vary considerably from a few thousand to more than 10,000. There is no military solution to this conflict whose human cost is unbearable. Any solution must be acceptable to the parties concerned. Belgium therefore always supports the implementation of the Minsk Protocol, since it is the only agreed reference between Kiev and Moscow to date. We also, of course, support the peace efforts of President Hollande and Chancellor Merkel, who have the full confidence of all European partners. The aim is to reach an agreement, again, as in the protocol, but above all to implement this agreement. The fact of having a signed agreement is obviously not enough. I come to the various questions. Firstly, on the humanitarian situation: since the Balkan wars in the 1990s, Europe has no longer experienced a humanitarian crisis of this magnitude. The ongoing open military confrontation is very deadly, including and especially for the civilian population. It is a form of conventional war using heavy weapons in a rather urbanized environment. Artillery plays a leading role in military action on both sides, with a devastating impact on civilians, homes and infrastructure. It must be recognized that Ukraine is the victim of aggression and that human rights violations are far more numerous and serious in rebel areas. On both sides, however, indiscriminate bombings of residential areas were carried out in violation of international humanitarian law. I note with concern that the OSCE has found the use of fragmentation bombs against residential areas in at least one case. The European Union and its member countries have already provided humanitarian aid to Ukraine for more than €95 million to deal with this dramatic reality. On 30 January, Belgium released an amount of EUR 2 million for emergency humanitarian aid in Ukraine. With this assistance, the International Red Cross will be able to assist the affected populations by providing them with temporary shelter, food and water. As far as the Council of Europe and the human rights situation are concerned, in recent times I have dealt with this issue mainly in my capacity as Chairman of the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe. It was in Kiev and Moscow that I made my first trip in this capacity, in early December. In Kiev, I also reaffirmed Belgian support for the Ukrainian government. We have addressed the issue of future constitutional reforms and their entry into force. I stressed the need to reinvigorate fully the dialogue between Ukraine and Russia, while maintaining the sanctions framework. The goal is to achieve a de-escalation. We must control the reality of the ceasefire in eastern Ukraine and also control the borders so that there are no more Russian troops entering the region. I have dealt in detail with the issue of human rights throughout Ukraine. I stressed our expectations for reforms, particularly in the areas of judicial independence, the fight against corruption and the revision of the Constitution. I insisted on Ukraine's accession to the International Criminal Court. The Council of Europe, in particular with the Venice Commission, can provide assistance in all the discussions that will take place on constitutional reforms, on a redistribution of the country and on the distribution of autonomy or stronger decision-making capacities at the local level. In Moscow, I recalled the European position on the annexation of Crimea, illegal under international law, which cannot be recognised under any circumstances. On the occasion of our diplomatic days, I also had the opportunity to stress to the Deputy Secretary-General of the United Nations, Mr Eliasson, the risk of almost de facto recognition that could arise through the presence of a number of international actors, particularly within the United Nations. We are therefore very vigilant to prevent the presence on the ground from gradually being regarded as a kind of de facto recognition of this annexation. The return to a political solution goes, I repeat, through the Minsk Protocol. I stressed that this protocol includes a ceasefire that must be respected on both sides, as well as control of the Ukrainian border. I expressed my commitment to the continuation of the dialogue with Russia within the framework of the Council of Europe. I raised the issue of human rights with the Minister of Foreign Affairs, the Minister of Justice and the Commissioner for Human Rights, interceding in particular in favour of the NGOs Memorial, Amnesty International and International Crisis Group, which are facing major difficulties with the Russian administration. In the meantime, I am pleased to learn that the Russian Supreme Court has refused to dissolve the NGO Memorial. I am pleased to have had these discussions because I believe that it is too rare for Western politicians to talk about human rights with Russia. I finally called for a new balance with Russia. On 26 January, I addressed these issues again during my participation in the winter session of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. I stressed the implementation of the Minsk Protocol and the implementation of reforms in Ukraine. I noted that active Russian participation in all Council of Europe bodies, including the European Court of Human Rights, the Venice Commission and the Parliamentary Assembly, would benefit the Council of Europe, its members and Russia itself. However, I did not consider it appropriate to get involved in the relations between the Parliamentary Assembly and this delegation. I will meet tomorrow with the Secretary-General of the Council of Europe, Mr Jagland, and I will refer again to the Council of Europe's support for Ukraine, in particular the implementation of the 2015-2017 Action Plan. Ukraine must also develop a national human rights strategy. With regard to impunity in eastern Ukraine, Belgium's human rights policy is precisely one of its priorities in the fight against impunity. Our country supports monitoring activities in this regard, including the mission of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights, as well as the initiatives of the various Council of Europe bodies dealing with this issue. We will see if additional resources are to be made available in this area. With regard to the European Union's sanctions against Russia, economic measures aim to involve Russia sincerely and constructively in the resolution of the Ukrainian crisis. This is the position of the European Union and its G7 partners – the United States, Canada, Japan – as well as Australia. They have also adopted sanctions against Russia. Until now, we have not yet seen a clear change of course in the leadership of the Russian authorities, even though leading economic figures in Russia and elsewhere believe that the rebels would have gone much further in the absence of sanctions. No one has claimed that these would settle everything with a magic wand, but they have been in place for only six months. Their impact is felt heavily on the Russian economy. They are part of a longer-term perspective aimed at prompting the Russian government to reconsider its political approach to the Ukrainian question. It is clear that oil price developments also have a major impact on the economic and fiscal situation in Russia. Following the events in Marioupol, at the extraordinary Foreign Affairs Council on 29 January, I supported the adoption of new individual sanctions, which were formally approved during the Council meeting on 9 February. It was agreed that they would enter into force next Monday. No further decisions are necessary for such implementation to take place. For the rest, the relationship between the European Union and Russia obviously suffered from Moscow's negative role in the Ukrainian crisis. For example, the bilateral EU-Russia summits planned for 2014 have been cancelled. The European Investment Bank no longer finances new projects in Russia. Finally, the latter was excluded from the G8 and therefore returned to G7. Within the Member States of the Union, there are necessarily different approaches to Russia. Some are more conciliatory than others. On the other hand, there is a strong consensus on two points: the need to remain united on this issue and the assertion that, without any significant improvement in the Russian attitude towards Ukraine, it will be difficult to witness a warming of our relations. The detailed conclusions adopted by the various Councils attest to the high degree of consensus on Russia. I have repeatedly insisted that the European Union speak as much as possible with one voice and continue its dialogue with Russia beyond the Ukrainian issue, in formal and structured ways. In this regard, I welcome the continuation of dialogue with Russia on various international issues such as Syria and North Korea, as well as on other topics of common interest such as energy, climate change for COP21 in Paris this year, or the interpersonal contacts that are being promoted. I also welcome the fact that the last Foreign Affairs Council on 15 January mandated High Representative Federica Mogherini to improve the strategic communication of the European Union with a view to communicating upstream on the Union's policies, correcting misinformation as soon as it is disseminated, and supporting the development of independent media throughout the region. I turn to questions about our exports and the impact of sanctions on them. After the first nine months of 2013, exports to Russia of agricultural and food products, currently under embargo, amounted to 209.2 million, representing 5.3% of total Belgian exports to Russia. Following the Russian restrictive measures, after the first nine months of 2014, exports of the same products decreased by 34.9% to an amount of EUR 136.2 million. The share of these products in total Belgian exports to Russia fell to 4.3%. The Belgian agricultural and food products most affected by the embargo belong to the following three sectors: apples and pears, apricots, cherries and peaches, and tomatoes. For the first nine months of 2014, the export of apples and pears was still EUR 68.8 million, compared with EUR 16.4 million for apricots, cherries and peaches, and EUR 9.7 million for tomatoes. These three sectors together account for more than two thirds of the goods that can no longer be exported to Russia. Interestingly, despite the trade sanctions, Belgian exports of apples and pears to Russia after the first nine months of 2014 are 1.4% higher than in 2013. This indicates, therefore, that there had been significant growth in these exports in the first six months of 2014. On the other hand, for apricots, cherries, peaches and tomatoes, exports fell by 57.9% and 25.7%, respectively, compared to the same period in 2013. In the implementation of the Russian embargo, Belgium's global exports of products affected by the embargo increased by 3.1 million; for the first nine months of 2014, they were 2.4 per cent higher than in the same period of 2013. Generally speaking, if we look at their performance at the global level, the sectors most affected by the Russian embargo do not seem to have suffered too negative an impact. On the other hand, some subsectors are undoubtedly negatively affected. This is the case for the pigmeat sector, which was already subject to an export ban as early as March 2014 as a result of health measures taken by the Russian authorities. Partly because of the Russian embargo, the overall value of Belgian pigmeat exports fell by 6% compared to the same period in 2013. Exporters of apricots, cherries and fisheries also suffer from the embargo. World sales of these fruits fell by 34% in the first nine months of 2014 to a total of €50.4 million. Within this framework, European support measures have been taken within the framework provided for this purpose and according to the appropriations available. They are evaluated on an ongoing basis. The impact of Russian counter-sanctions is different depending on the sector of activity. A tailor-made approach is therefore required. For example, the pig industry was already subject, as I said, to an export ban following phytosanitary measures as early as March 2014, a few months before the general counter-sanctions were taken. It is also clear that if sanctions cannot be lifted, the solution for the affected sectors is to seek alternative markets. That is why, at the request of the affected sectors, I have taken the initiative to set up a task force that promotes the exchange of information between all relevant authorities and affected sectors and emphasizes the development of an appropriate framework to study the impact of sanctions and develop initiatives to address new markets in a coordinated manner. A similar exercise is being carried out at European level so that certain trade barriers can be removed in third countries. Examples include the authorization to export our pears to Canada, as well as intensive discussions with the United States to facilitate access to the U.S. market for certain agricultural products. There is no progress on a possible lifting of the food embargo. The food crisis can only be resolved through the global lifting of the embargo and the search for new markets. Despite repeated requests from many Member States, including Belgium, the European Commission has not foreseen the activation of new measures for the agricultural sector. At the Council of Agriculture Ministers on 26 January, Belgium called on the Commission to continue the various measures already activated under the CAP and to make full use of all the budgets foreseen in 2014. It also proposed new measures for the pig sector. As far as bilateral relations are concerned, our country has traditionally maintained good bilateral relations with Russia focused on important economic interests. Our firmness vis-à-vis Russia does not prevent us from maintaining these good relations. Economic contacts and various administrative and political contacts continue; however, we cannot speak of business as usual. Our bilateral relations are affected, whether we want them or not. We examine our political contacts on a case-by-case basis. We avoid any contact with the de facto authorities in Crimea, as I have also requested at United Nations level, and we also avoid, in principle, any contact with those who have been hit by international sanctions. I am very aware of the economic and commercial consequences of this situation for our companies. I also wanted to meet Belgian companies, both in Kiev and Moscow, last December. In the first ten months of 2014, our total exports to Russia decreased by about 20% due to the falling ruble and recession in Russia, where economic difficulties far exceed the direct impact of sanctions. Our investors in Russia are also affected. Within the framework of the OSCE, Belgium attaches great importance to the Organization's multifaceted role in dealing with the conflict in Ukraine. The OSCE has already contributed to curbing the escalation of the conflict and could play a more important role in the event of effective compliance with the ceasefire. As part of the OSCE special observer mission to Ukraine, Belgium is currently deploying two observers to Ukraine's eastern region; they are part of the observation team comprising many nations, including Russian and Ukrainian observers. Their mission is to verify the implementation of the provisions of the Minsk Agreement; in particular, they note the possible population movements, the humanitarian and health situation of local populations and displaced persons, as well as the violations caused by the fighting or by the movement of troops. The OSCE has not yet submitted an additional request to increase the number of observers. If that were the case - since the question was asked - Belgium stands ready to consider any new applications to that effect. Ukraine is in fact already receiving military assistance. Among other actors, NATO has set up trust funds to support the modernization of the Ukrainian army in various sectors, including cyber defence for example. Belgium believes that priority should be given to the search for a political solution. We do not believe in a military solution. To deliver lethal weapons to Ukraine would be to resign itself to military escalation and the triumph of a war logic. It would at least be premature. Belgium is therefore not in favour of this in the present circumstances. You will allow me not to mention the different hypotheses in case the situation deteriorates. This debate on the delivery of weapons is a sign of discouragement by the main players in the face of the failure of diplomatic efforts and of a growing sense of insecurity and uncertainty vis-à-vis Russia. This is a symptom of the very sharp deterioration of the situation, but as I said, we fully support the efforts currently under way at the initiative of the French President and the German Chancellor, with the full support of the European Union. You will have noticed that the American position has changed a little to leave space for this diplomatic initiative. As regards relations with NATO and the Eurasian Economic Union, I am in principle in favour of talks between the European Union and the EU and the revitalisation of the NATO-Russia Council. However, this seems to me to be conceivable only in an improved geopolitical climate. It requires, among other things, a de-escalation in eastern Ukraine and progress towards a political solution. With regard to Russia's cooperation with Turkey and the possible impact on Syria, I have no objection to Russia developing good cooperation with its neighbours, quite the contrary. This also applies to Turkey. Remember that Belgium also has good bilateral relations with Russia. Then why not good relations between Turkey and Russia? I do not think that the revival of cooperation between Russia and Turkey will immediately have a particular impact on the situation in the Middle East and, more specifically, on the peace talks with Syria. Russia and Turkey do play an important role in the dossier. That is why, in my bilateral contacts with these countries, I have also called, among other things, for improved access to humanitarian aid. In addition, a rapprochement between these two key players may have a longer-term impact on the political process that is still needed to resolve the conflict in Syria. I am also in favour of cooperation with Iran on such a dossier, as regards Syria, and in general with regard to the fight against Daesh. As far as nuclear energy is concerned, it is very useful to have Russia on board for the negotiations with Iran. On many different points, we need to continue in a proper dialogue with Russia on international issues. I have also received some questions about the specific situation in South Ossetia and Abkhazia. As far as Belgium is concerned, the priority for Georgia is the implementation of the Association Treaty with the European Union. I note, moreover, that relations between Georgia and Russia are improving, with the important exception of the problems of the two apostate regions of Abkhazia and South Ossetia. However, I am concerned about the alliance agreement between Abkhazia and Russia and the draft treaty between South Ossetia and Russia. The agreement with the region of Abkhazia concerns the Treaty on Alliance and Strategic Partnership, signed in Sochi on 24 November 2014 between the Russian Federation and the renegade region of Georgia. The text provides for collective defence, a coordinated foreign policy and the establishment of a common socio-economic area. The original draft treaty went much further but was amended at the request of the Abchazen. As early as 27 November, the European Union, in the framework of a meeting of the OSCE Permanent Council, pointed out the unacceptable nature of this Convention. Of course, the EU speaks as a single voice in the OSCE Permanent Council. Such an agreement is contrary to international law, as well as to Georgia's sovereignty and territorial integrity, in the light of its internationally recognised borders. Such an agreement also violates the international commitment made with Tbilisi by the agreement of 12 August 2008, as well as the implementing provisions of 8 September of the same year, to discuss the situation of the occupied territories in the framework of a bilateral dialogue. This step sends a strong negative signal to the ongoing efforts to stabilise the security situation in the region. Our country, of course, supports the position already developed within the European Union and will therefore contribute to this position in multilateral fora such as the UN, the OSCE and NATO. The draft treaty with South Ossetia represents an important transfer of powers from the de facto regime of South Ossetia to the Russian Federation, a transfer of forces, customs and police. This violates Georgia's territorial integrity and sovereignty. However, we will know this month what the final text of the Treaty will look like. Like my EU partners, I believe that the strategic agreements between the Russian Federation and the torn-off republics of Abkhazia and South Ossetia are damaging the efforts made to ensure the stability of the region. In any case, this is a worrying development, but it cannot be compared with the annexation of part of Ukrainian territory by Russia. As President of the Council of Ministers of the Council of Europe, I will ensure that this organisation further supports Georgia's territorial integrity. According to our information, the Georgian Prime Minister, Irakli Garibashvili, on 9 January asked the High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs, Federica Mogherini, to strongly condemn this agreement. However, the European Union has not yet formally expressed its opinion on this draft treaty, precisely because it is a draft. I would like to emphasise the special position of the Republica Moldova in its relationship with both the European Union and Russia. I had an exchange of views both during the discussions in Brussels, at the Foreign Affairs Council and with several fellow Members of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and during the Benelux mission in Chisinau in September 2013 on the complex position of Moldova geopolitics. The subject of the Moldovan parliamentary elections of 30 November 2014 and Russian sanctions were placed on the agenda of the Foreign Affairs Council in 2014. The general tone in the discussions on the election result was mixed and several of my fellow Members stressed in their statement both the actual election result, with overall a good result for the European coalition, and the lesser aspects of the election process, particularly with regard to the organisation of elections abroad and the shortcomings in the recognition of the political parties involved. I have always supported the pro-European course, pointing out, however, that a polarisation vis-à-vis Russia does not help Europe. There is no reason to believe that the EU-Moldova Association Agreement would be compromised. I hope that its implementation can take place as soon as possible, this year. I am therefore counting on you and all my fellow Members to complete the Belgian ratification procedure as soon as possible, both at federal and regional level. When Russia decided to place a number of Moldovan products on an embargo list, Europe decided to drastically increase the quotas for various fruits in the Free Trade Agreement, which is covered by the EU-Moldova Association Agreement. It goes without saying that once the association agreement comes into force, Moldova will be able to reach the European market under better conditions. For the sake of completeness, I should like to say that the Transnistria and Gagauzia regions are excluded from the Russian embargo. With regard to the problem of the Russian media in Moldova, I would point out that resources are limited. It is true that many Moldovans, including non-Russian speakers, look at Russian channels rather than their own Moldovan channels, partly from tradition and partly because of the choice of programmes. Account should also be taken of the Council of Europe's condemnation of past attempts by the government in Chisinau to limit the transmission range of Russian channels. It would undoubtedly be a good thing if the Moldovan channels were to communicate more and better in Russian, given the important minority of Russians, Ukrainians and Bulgarians who only have Russian as a communication language in common. Despite this delicate environment, I agree with the questioners that consideration should be given to how Europe is reacting and, above all, to how we can deliver a convincing message to a large part of the population that is still not won for European integration. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to conclude by saying that Belgium, the European Union and many other partners are first and foremost in favour of a political and diplomatic solution. There is now an opportunity to move in this direction with the new negotiations in Minsk. Tomorrow it will be possible for the European Council to draw some conclusions. It is not only useful to reach an agreement, it must really be implemented on the ground. It may not be the first agreement, but it is important that it is actually implemented on the ground. So we certainly do not argue in favour of supplying weapons. I have already said that we are very careful about this. It is too early to think of such a delivery. We must not continue the armed conflict on the ground. Secondly, in addition to a political solution for Ukraine, we also need a real dialogue with Russia. We need to be very concrete and precise and clear-cut. It is useful to establish a real dialogue, not only on Ukraine but also on Syria, Iran, climate change, energy and many other international challenges. Finally, we need a strategic discussion on a medium-term vision of relations between the European Union and Russia. I have already said that at previous meetings of our committee, but Russia is in our immediate neighbourhood. Beyond the monstrous conflicts and difficulties we face today, we need to think about how to build a relationship with Russia. We must also reflect on the situation of countries that are between Russia and us and that do not necessarily have to find themselves in a neutral situation but at least have the opportunity to develop their relations with the European Union as well as with a Russia that would change its way of thinking about the situation today. I hope that, in the next few hours or days, we will be able to give positive elements concerning the progress of a diplomatic solution and, I hope, a development on the ground. Otherwise, all actors will have to reposition themselves.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic093x.u16	Minister, I agree with you on your introduction and conclusions: no military solution and a real dialogue with Russia. But I stress the absolute need to find a solution that goes through this Russian-speaking population of eastern Ukraine, which, beyond the economic and geopolitical stakes, the crux of the problem, has suffered, long before the conflict, from a series of discriminations, due to its Russian-speaking minority state of expression. As we know, Ukraine is a country of strong identity and the Russian-speaking population has not always been well integrated into previous Ukrainian governments; it must be recognized. Today, there are several million people moving in this area. You mentioned the figure of 1.2 million. The situation is very difficult for them. At the military level, if Russian troops are to be more controlled, while maintaining dialogue with Russia, it is also important to control Ukrainian troops, which comprise extreme right-wing groups, which are led towards Ukrainian identity and which are very hard. The massacres on the spot are proof of this vis-à-vis the Russian-speaking Ukrainians, but it is also important to ensure that European aid reaches Ukrainians in this region of Donbass. We know that the humanitarian situation on the spot is dramatic, as it has rarely been, even in the Balkans you mentioned earlier. Moreover, since Donbass is an industrial region, somewhat comparable to the Charleroi region, with in particular metallurgy, the country's tool is broken. The war has systematically destroyed it and even targeted it. It's a tragedy! That is why I dare the analogy with my region: when such a heavy industrial tool is deteriorated, the investments to be made to relaunch it are considerable. It will be extremely difficult for the region's economic autonomy to rebuild on a sound basis. Let us therefore ensure that aid, both humanitarian and economic development, also targets this region, as well as all Ukraine, which is suffering as a whole from this war.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic093x.u17	Mr President, I do not wish to speak immediately.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic093x.u18	I give the floor to Mr Friart, if he wishes to replicate.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic093x.u19	I would like to congratulate the Minister on this very comprehensive and detailed briefing. I would also like to congratulate him for all the initiatives he is taking, for the actions he is carrying out in collaboration with our European friends. I hope that in the coming days we can move towards a solution that will satisfy the various parties involved in this conflict. Thank you, Minister!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic093x.u20	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply in terms of substance. I broadly agree with the view of Belgian diplomacy on the conflict. I am pleased that the Belgian position against arms deliveries is being reconfirmed. I also share your view that economic sanctions are useful or at least still have the potential to exert pressure and defuse the conflict. In the longer term, however, we must avoid isolation from Russia. You are right, therefore, to point out that we must continue dialogue with Russia in other areas and that one does not exclude the other. You are also right to point out that we must work towards the integration of Russia into a European security structure, but also that it must continue in the Council of Europe. I would like to point out to Mr Dallemagne that it is very clear to me that a foreign policy takes account of the balance of power. That is the logic itself and a question of common sense. Our position on this is not new. In this sense, the expansion of NATO can easily be perceived as a provocation. There is a more intelligent security architecture in Europe than the architecture of NATO. In the long term, we must work towards this point, including Russia. Finally, it is clear that it is important for Europe to speak with one voice. I am, of course, looking forward to Greece's position in the dossier and in other dossiers, which will follow.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic093x.u21	Mr President, I would also like to express my satisfaction with the analysis and diplomatic position of the minister. I think that's the right position. I also find that there is basically a terrifying waste behind this logic and this forward flight from Russia. Of course, we have common interests. These are our close, powerful neighbours with whom we could do so much important, especially for the security of the world. The diversion of attention from other much larger issues is striking in this conflict. If Russia wants to redeploy itself as a great power, which I can understand very well, it takes the totally opposite path today. She's getting weaker. She's isolated. We would like to have with us a Russia that can be positively influential in the world. I hope that one day the Russian leaders will understand that. It is our interest, as well as theirs, to be able to work hand in hand and to change the security architecture. But unfortunately, we are moving away from it today. The first who plead for extreme vigilance are Russia's immediate neighbours, all of whom are very worried. You have to be able to hear it. If we were Russia's immediate neighbours, we would be extremely worried today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic093x.u22	I know that Members have the last word, but I would like to respond to Mr De Vriendt's comments on Greece and other problems. At the last two meetings of the Foreign Affairs Council, we received a very correct response from Greece. So far, it has not been so difficult to reach a consensus, even with regard to individual sanctions. It often goes much less smoothly with a number of other European partners. There are a lot of problems with Greece, but I wanted to give this to you. A lot of comments were made on this matter before the meeting. A journalist asked me whether it would be possible to reach a consensus with Greece. After half an hour of meetings, however, a consensus with Greece proved perfectly possible. The next two to three hours were then discussed with all the other partners. So far, it has proved perfectly possible to reach a consensus with Greece on the situation in Ukraine and its relationship with Russia.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic093x.u23	Thank you, Minister, for your detailed answers to my three questions and sub-questions. However, many more questions will follow. I remember that you choose dialogue. I believe that dialogue with the neighbours is an absolute necessity, in any constellation. We must avoid isolation. I support your view that you want to find a solution through political and diplomatic means. You also take every opportunity to call for respect for human rights. You say that agreements must be concluded, that these agreements must be implemented and that their implementation must be monitored. Here too, I fully agree with you. I understand that the guiding principle within the EU is to speak with one voice and that improving relations with Russia will only be possible if there is an improvement in the field. I remember that, within a European consensus, Belgium is not in favour of giving military support. Minister, while we are holding this debate, we must be aware that the peace summit currently taking place is being overshadowed by heavy fighting. Today's reports by Reuters again point to many deaths. All this must not make us forget that this conflict demands human lives and that this violence is taking place very close to Europe and our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic093x.u24	This theme is closed. I look at the clock and I see we're still nine minutes away. Mr. Secretary, do you really have to leave at 4:25?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic093x.u25	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic093x.u26	I think it would be impossible to begin with the question of the closure of diplomatic posts. Perhaps we can deal with an individual question in those nine minutes? I would just like to say that the Minister is coming back to this committee on 11 March. He won't be back from a shipment in Congo that long. I therefore propose that we put Congo on our agenda as the first item and link Rwanda and Burundi to it, so that we can have a debate on Central Africa. I note that some of my fellow Members are asking to speak.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic093x.u27	Mr President, I understand that the minister has a very busy agenda. Nevertheless, in Parliament, we need to have an exchange of views on a whole series of extremely worrying situations. I note that we will only hear the minister when he returns from the Congo. This situation, however, deserved to have an interview...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic093x.u28	I'm ready to come next week.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic093x.u29	That would be very good, minister. In fact, is this trip to the Congo still appropriate? In what context? These are issues that should be discussed in advance, given the situation there. This is just one example among others.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic093x.u30	Mr President, I share the same concern as Mr Dallemagne. In general too, I believe that many of the questions that are on the agenda today will remain unanswered. I think it is necessary to come to Parliament as soon as possible so that some of these questions can be answered. The next meeting is only scheduled for 11 March, starting with a thematic debate on Congo. Many other issues and questions will then reappear on the agenda. It's all getting a little charged.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic093x.u31	(...) On February 19, perhaps?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic093x.u32	Handy as he is, the Minister proposes next week, during the crocus vacation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic093x.u33	Then I'm going to Kinshasa and I have a second journey to make. I am in any case prepared to include an additional meeting.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic093x.u34	Perhaps the best thing for us is to schedule another meeting shortly after 11 March. I understand the concerns of my fellow Members. There were 80 questions on the agenda today and 15 of them were dealt with. That means there's still 65 questions left. Today is 11 February, by 11 March there will be 20 to 30 questions. For example, there remains a delay of about 85 questions and this is not sustainable. I would therefore ask the Minister to present a further meeting as soon as possible after 11 March, so that those Members who still have questions can take their turn.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic093x.u35	Mr Minister, I promise to ask you fewer questions. I have seen that twenty questions are on me today if you promise to answer more frequently here in this committee. Mr President, the next question is mine too. The debate on economic diplomacy has already taken place. If anyone else would like to ask an urgent question, I would like to give the honourable Member the opportunity to do so, at least if possible. I think it is best that we continue our work at a forthcoming meeting.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic093x.u36	Mr President, we have set the date of 11 March because there are at least three planned trips by then. But I'm available to organize a meeting during Carnival Week. Otherwise, we can meet on the 11th and I will find a date directly after. I'm available on February 18.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic093x.u37	It suits me, but it is an unwritten agreement that there is no meeting organised during the Carnival leave. I can suggest that you do the same as Minister Van Overtveld: he is holding a meeting this Friday afternoon.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic093x.u38	Mr President, we can try to do this. I'll give you a list of my travels. In the first part of this year, there are not only the usual visits, but we are presiding over the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe, which leads to a number of trips, and we are presiding over Benelux. I'm offering you March 11 and an early date.
