ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic134x.u1	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, as I drafted my question, I did not know that you would go on a mission to Brazil. But before I ask you this question, my group would like to know if you intend, at any time, to come and answer the questions you are asked about your statements on the F-16s.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic134x.u2	Mrs Grovonius, I am entirely at the disposal of Parliament but, of course, for all matters within my department. For the rest, I intend to follow up on State interest files. I am quite the option that was taken by the government in its government agreement, that is, during this legislature, a successor to the F-16 will be chosen and I think I know what the choice will be.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic134x.u3	Secretary of State, I am pleased to hear you on this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic134x.u4	But since the government cannot be heard or questioned about its intentions, you will certainly be disappointed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic134x.u5	Mr Secretary of State, I personally do not have much disappointment in this matter. I am the voice of my group, which will probably be very disappointed not to be able to go into this matter with you, given your statements.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic134x.u6	I do everything I can to ensure that the Walloon industries are not disappointed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic134x.u7	In any case, as far as I am concerned, I am delighted to ask you my question today and to see you here. It's been a long time and I've missed you! I am speaking to you following a meeting I made at the end of February with a Brazilian trade unionist who is a partner of the Belgian NGO, which you probably know, the CNCD. This person had the opportunity to witness the deplorable working conditions, close to slavery and forced labour, of workers in the orange plantations in Brazil. These workers produce orange concentrate which is frozen and exported 80% to Europe for use in the manufacture of orange juice. The practices I am talking about seem to be clearly in contravention of human rights and many labour laws, including Brazilian ones. In this context, Mr Secretary of State, I would like to ask you the following questions. You will feed this debate all the better as you have carried out a mission on the spot. What is the state of our trade with Brazil, and more specifically with regard to imports of agricultural products such as oranges and their derivatives? What texts and frameworks, particularly at the level of social and environmental standards, govern such trade? Do you have any information on the working conditions in which these products, which are massively imported into Europe, and particularly in Belgium, are manufactured? Have you ever been able to address this issue in your bilateral discussions with the Brazilian authorities? Did you do it on this mission that you carried out on site? The Government Agreement provides for the development of a National Business and Human Rights Action Plan. What is the status of its realization? Will this type of problem be addressed in this context? Finally, is there any discussion with the Minister responsible for consumer protection on the origin of the orange juice? Will you discuss the conditions under which it could be produced, in order to inform consumers? I suggested to my group vice-chairman to suggest in the Conference of Presidents that we pay particular attention to the products we sell and consume in the House, particularly in the canteen. The proposed brand is clearly cited by this Brazilian trade unionist as one of those who use the concentrate in question. This has not yet been addressed, but I hope that my suggestion for fairer trade consumption will be welcomed by all groups. I take advantage of the questions asked by my colleagues and your mission in Brazil to ask you also about a particular aspect of your stay. I want to talk about the diamond industry and the Kimberley Process. Indeed, I saw that you had attended a conference on this subject. In your statement of 12 March, you acknowledged that the implementation of this process was an important challenge. You shared your concerns, but also the work that was being done in Côte d'Ivoire to establish a monitoring system. In your view, this is necessary in order to comply with the strict conditions laid down in the Kimberley Process. Is it therefore possible to know the details of this work carried out in Côte d'Ivoire? You look generally satisfied with the Kimberley process. What do you think of the work being done at European level to establish a binding process for conflict minerals as well? This is a question on which I have particular attention at the moment. I would find it a bit disappointing that there is double standards and that trade in minerals is not subject to the same standards as those imposed on the diamond trade by the Kimberley Process.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic134x.u8	Mr Secretary of State, on your mission to Brazil, you met representatives and policy makers from different industries: maritime trade, the agricultural and food industries, the diamond industry and the pharmaceutical industry. Brazil, one of the BRIC countries, has experienced strong economic growth in recent times and cooperation offers a lot of opportunities for both our countries. What were the results of your conversations with Brazilian executives? Have any concrete plans been discussed to invest in Belgium? Where does Brazil stand with the implementation of the Kimberley Process? What opportunities does this offer for Antwerp as the centre of the diamond trade? A declaration of intent has been drawn up between the Belgian Federal Agency for the Safety of the Food Chain and its Brazilian equivalent. What are the main components? What is the timing within which the intentions should be implemented in practice? What were the results of your discussions on agriculture and the food industry? Quite specifically, what are the consequences for Belgian agriculture? Have trade tariffs been agreed, on the one hand, with Belgium, on the other hand, with Europe? Finally, I have a question concerning Petrobras' corruption and bribery scandal, in which bribes would have been paid to President Rousseff's party. Reports have also been published here in the press. What are the chances of image damage, including for Belgian companies, for example for Bekaert?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic134x.u9	Mr Secretary of State, according to your foreign trade mission, you travelled to Brazil in March for a trade mission. My general question on this is what are the results of investments in Belgium and Brazil. In addition, I have three more specific questions. I'm a bit repeating myself with my previous colleague. First, during your mission, the Kimberley Process was discussed. What results has Brazil already achieved with the implementation of that multilateral platform? A second specific question relates to the contacts with the Brazilian Food Safety Agency. For example, there was talk of concrete access problems to the Brazilian market for Belgian companies. It was also agreed to draw up a Memorandum of Understanding on cooperation between the Brazilian Agency and its Belgian counterpart. What exactly is the content of that statement? My third specific question has not yet been addressed by my fellow Members. Cooperation on ports was also discussed. Could you give us a little more explanation on that?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic134x.u10	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will answer questions from Mrs Claerhout and Mrs Bellens and Mrs Grovonius. Madam, if I am not mistaken, the Brazilians have re-elected Dilma Rousseff as president. He is a person who belongs to an international political group that you know well, like President Lula, his predecessor, who had the honour of having, at the time of his oath, a special envoy of your party, who was at that time the Speaker of the Senate. I come to the essential questions. From 10 to 16 March, I led a thematic trade mission to Brazil, in particular to São Paulo. The mission came in response to specific questions from sectors and companies and stands alongside the princely missions and the economic chapter of the state visits. The main sectors covered by the thematic visit were ports, agriculture and food safety, the diamond sector, medical and pharmaceutical products and the chocolate sector. Optimum cooperation and cooperation has been established with the Belgian diplomatic representatives, with the Belgian ambassador and the consuls-general responsible for Brazil. I had several high-level contacts, including a meeting with four federal ministers, a Deputy Minister and a Deputy Secretary of State. My visit was one of the first visits of a member of the government of an EU Member State since the entry into force of the new Brazilian Government in early January. This provided an excellent opportunity to focus on the Brazilian approach and priorities, especially now that economic prosperity is underdeveloped. During my visit, however, I found that Brazil's potential cannot be underestimated. According to figures from the Agency for Foreign Trade, Brazil was the 18th destination for Belgian exports in 2013, i.e. €3,327 million, of which 2.2% were agri-food products, and the 22nd supplier, i.e. €2,363 million, of which 27.7% were agri-food products. The mission will lead to a number of concrete follow-up initiatives, on which more will be done in the near future. The Regions were previously informed about the programme and were invited to participate in the visit. In Brasilia I also spoke at two seminars, of which the embassy was co-organiser, a first on customs duties together with Brasilia's barrister and our customs attaché, and a seminar on clean business in the diamond sector, together with the AWDC and the Brazilian Ministry of Mines and Energy. At the same time, the voice of civil society was heard. I have discussed, among other things, the working conditions in the orange sector to which Mrs Grovonius refers in her question, but whose full responsibility lies with the presidential administration and the government. With regard to your specific question, Brazil has ratified a series of International Labour Organization (ILO) conventions on forced labour. The competent administrations are actively working on the drafting of a National Plan of Action "Enterprises and Human Rights". The objective of the Plan will be to implement the thirty-one guiding principles of the United Nations unanimously adopted by the Human Rights Council in June 2011, in line with the commitments that Belgium and the European Union have made under the European Union's strategic framework on human rights, democracy and the related action plan. Important basic work has already been done, including an initial consultation with stakeholders launched in April 2014 and an assessment of our country's legislation and policies in relation to the thirty-one guiding principles. The drafting committee for the National Action Plan is currently drafting a first draft, which will bring together some 30 actions. These will be submitted to stakeholders by the summer. One of the actions that we plan to take up in the Plan would be to systematically include a time, an initiative "social responsibility of companies, human rights and business" in every economic mission in our country. This will enable us to raise awareness of this issue among Belgian companies and to encourage good practice in this area, both upstream and downstream. Representatives of Brazil and I have sent the message that it is necessary to facilitate negotiations for a trade agreement. That will certainly contribute to a positive momentum. I would also like to send a signal to the Commissioner responsible. This shows an extremely strong perception of a sense of blockade, given the Brazilian position. In the area of agriculture and food security, there is a letter of intent under the AFSCA visa for bilateral cooperation and the exchange of good processes. The model to be proposed by Belgium is followed by the technical mission of the association of Belgian horticultural cooperatives and the AFSCA in June. On this occasion, we will continue to expand our market access issues, particularly with regard to seeded fruit, where there are good prospects, but also in the area of gelatins and ornamental birds. Taking advantage of the framework agreement on technical and scientific cooperation, the proposal was made to develop an agreement with the Ministry of Mines, allowing the dispatch of an expert on the assessment and processing of operating certificates in the context of the Kimberley Process. Building on the success of this mission, AWDC representatives want to make progress in their initiatives vis-à-vis Brazil, and in particular in organizing an event in Rio, from 18 to 20 May this year, with the Global Mining Business, in addition to the technical seminar in Brasilia. I'll be back to the bilateral meetings. Formal invitations for these meetings were sent out. A first was held with the Minister of Agriculture Katia Abreu, who will be in Belgium on 6 and 7 April. The possibility of a bilateral part in its European agenda, for specific meetings with the Foreign Minister and myself, is mentioned. The Minister of Ports Edinho Araujo will make visits to Antwerp, Ghent, Brussels and Liège, and meetings with companies, especially about dredging, are already on the agenda. The Minister of Mines and Energy, Eduardo Braga, will participate in a meeting on diamonds. A meeting with the Minister of Foreign Affairs and meetings with companies such as Tractebel, Umicor and others are on the agenda. The Minister of Development, Industry and Foreign Trade, Armando Monteiro, will hold meetings with my Foreign Affairs colleague, meetings in Antwerp with the Diamond Council, and many others. I shall now give you an account of some of the talks that have taken place in Portuguese. I first met Jaime Oliveira, the new president of ANVISA, the Health Vigilance Agency. He also received me in the presence of the president of a very important Belgian company, Francisco Piccolo. It was agreed that ANVISA and AFSCA could explore the possibility of increasing collaborations by signing a Letter of Intent on areas of food chain security and information exchange. The representative of the pharmaceutical company intervened to present a file which had been introduced for two years and for which additional information had been requested by ANVISA. This case concerns new molecules on the Brazilian market that are not considered by the Ministry of Health as priorities. The list of drug molecules to be treated as a priority, as well as the possibility of reducing the processing time of applications, is published at the beginning of the year for two years. We had an interview with the secretariat of the ports, with Minister Edinho Araujo. The purpose of this meeting was to confirm to the Brazilian authorities our commitment in the main ongoing cases involving Belgian companies and bodies. I then stressed Belgium's excellent bilateral cooperation and commitment to continue and develop this cooperation. The Brazilian minister outlined his country's port policy. In 2013, new legislation to promote concessions and greater flexibility in the management and development of the sector was discussed. This text was still awaiting final approval by the Union's Court of Auditors, the inescapable budgetary body. This will now pave the way for several foreign investments in the port sector. With regard to the qualification and training of workers, the minister was well aware of the progress being made, including the series of peace seminars and the agreement signed in December 2014 by his predecessor. The Minister has clearly confirmed the progress made towards the establishment of the APEC centre in Vitória and has also confirmed that Brazil would need several of these centres in several ports, the specialization of the country, without mentioning figures, in order to increase the level of professionalization and modernization of the logistics sector. Then we met with the Minister of Development, Industry and Foreign Trade, Armando Monteiro. Am I too fast?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic134x.u11	Mr Secretary of State, the translator had requested the text but did not receive it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic134x.u12	I met with Minister Monteiro and his team, the Secretary of State for Foreign Trade, the Secretary of State for Industrial Policy, in the presence of representatives of the chemical and pharmaceutical sector. After drawing up an overview of the potential of the European market for Brazilian companies, I asked Minister Monteiro to re-establish Brazil's trade policy in its regional context, Argentina and Venezuela, and to describe its priorities for economic recovery. Minister Monteiro briefly addressed some aspects of the country's economy and detailed the efforts of these teams in relation to the Portao Único, a trade facilitation initiative and the national export plan. The representatives of the chemical and pharmaceutical sector then had the opportunity to address and present their concerns, including Solvay, Janssen Pharmaceutica, ULB, Cyberco and many others. I come back to the meeting we had with the Minister of Mines and Energy, Eduardo Braga. In the presence of Ari Epstein, the CEO of AWDC, the conversation focused mainly on the diamond sector. In conclusion to the seminar organised by the Minister of Mines, the Minister agreed to move forward and develop technical and practical cooperation within an existing bilateral framework: an existing science and technology framework agreement. The minister is well aware of the potential of Brazil but for the moment the concern remains the identification of the origin of the stones of Garin puz and the artisanal production. The need for processing of a mine from a certain source does not yet appear to have been clearly identified. The Minister of Mines and Energy is interested in collaboration, expert training, a visit to Belgium and technological, technical and logistical assistance. Belgium, through the ADWC, will propose the text of a memorandum of understanding. Ari Epstein also spoke about the event of the ADWC in Rio from 18 to 20 May with the government in place: rough and polished diamonds, production and consumers, seminars, meetings, meetings and connections with the creative industries are on the agenda. I have also allowed a problem to be addressed by Tractebel Energia, the first private electricity producer, a company well known to the minister. The energy group is penalized by force majeure events on which the company has no control and whose responsibility and costs are borne by the government. The minister recognized the problem, considered it a priority, and indicated that a solution should be reached very soon, by the end of April, by the arbitration board. This is the decision of the regulatory body. Then I come back to the meeting with the Secretary of State for Science, Technology and Strategic Components, Jarbas Barbosa, who is the Deputy Minister of Health. During this very effective meeting, I introduced the pharmaceutical companies. The Belgian representatives briefly took the floor to indicate that the group wanted to expand its activities in Brazil and to work with the government to market new molecules. The Brazilian Secretary of State has been extremely open to public-private partnership. His Government was seeking collaboration and possible exchanges in the form of a memorandum of understanding. The Brazilian Secretary of State proposed a bilateral meeting between the Ministers of Health in Geneva in May. Both sides recognised the importance of in-depth collaboration within the framework of the university exchange programme "Sciences without Frontiers". Then I had the opportunity and the honour to meet with the Minister of Agriculture, Livestock and Supply, Mrs Kátia Abreu. She noted the importance of our bilateral relationship, noting that Brazil mainly exported fruit juices, including orange juices, coffee, tobacco, cocoa and beef to Belgium. She also stressed the need to further develop our collaboration. Brazilian farmers want to expand their activities in the European Union but deplore the normative and regulatory complications, as well as the lack of awareness among European consumers of Brazil's efforts to preserve its environment, including the Amazon forest. With regard to increasingly demanding consumers, especially Europeans, but also the Brazilian market, the minister wants to promote the image of her country's products, their quality and their flavour. She also spoke about the national agricultural defence plan, which aims to modernize the sector in a demanding international context. This plan will be launched by President Dilma Rousseff in April. The Minister will be in Brussels at the end of April-early May. The Brazilian minister also showed great openness regarding the access of Belgian pome fruit to the Brazilian market. This could be addressed further with its services, but it hoped for Belgian support for access to the European market for some Brazilian products, such as pork. So far, only three of the twenty-six Brazilian Länder have the right to export pigmeat to the European Union. The Minister stressed that access to Germany and France and the specific markets were particularly difficult. She pointed out that Brazil is the largest exporter of fruit juices to Europe and that there are problems with phytosanitary certificates here too. The Brazilian Minister generally advocates a calmer environment for trade and agricultural products between the European Union and Brazil. She was particularly well aware of the excellent Belgian reputation in the agri-food sector and she is driving for greater cooperation in the chocolate sector. In this context, she referred to a strategy to grow more cocoa in the northern Länder, in Pará, Rondenônia and Bahia, and wanted to produce rapid results on the debureaucratisation of its sector and the Ministry. Furthermore, it confirmed that it requested a complete overview per EU Member State of all the export licences applied for and the waiting period in each file. Minister Kátia Abreu also explained her national strategy aimed at improving quality in the agricultural sector. I shall come back to the questions about the Kimberley Process, to which I referred a moment ago. Brazil ranks seventeenth in the ranking of diamond producing countries and is a participating member of the Kimberley Process, the KP. With the recent discovery of fifty potential diamond mines, diamond production in Brazil has a strong growth potential. Brazil is expected to climb to twelfth place in the ranking of diamond producing countries from 2016. In addition to the production of rough diamonds, there are also expectations of growth in the consumer market. It had many feet in the earth before Brazil joined the Kimberley Process. In 2005-2006, a fraud case was brought to light in which the FP authority delivered "Departamento National de Produção Mineral' KP certificates which were not in conformity. Concerned about its reputation, Brazil has since strengthened its regulatory framework in such a way as to discourage the production and distribution of diamonds. This inhibits the growth potential mentioned above. Through the Minister of Mines, Mr Carlos Eduardo de Souza Braga, Brazil is a requesting party to strengthen its capacity through external expertise to implement the rules of the FP in a smoother way. The Brazilian Minister of Mines has asked our country to prepare a draft agreement on technical assistance, speeding up the KP procedures and possibly the training of experts. The good commercial outlook means that the Belgian diamond sector is committed to developing its relations with Brasilia and also wants to make its knowledge and know-how available to the country. The aim of this cooperation is to demonstrate that it is perfectly possible to carry out very strict KP controls without crippling an entire sector. The sector federation AWDC is willing to share good practices with Brazil in order to streamline their regulatory framework and procedures. The content of the planned cooperation is closely in line with the action plan proposed by the Brazilian FP Authority for 2015 which aims to increase the reliability of the Brazilian diamond market. The increased production, together with the strengthening of the above mentioned capacity, should lead to greater Brazilian engagement within the Kimberley Process. The commitment to join the sub-group on valuation within the Kimberley Process Working Group of diamond experts is a first concrete proof of this. Finally, in relation to the Petrobra dossier, I can only inform you that, of course, it is up to the Brazilian court to examine this matter fully and to assess it in full independence, and that it is not up to our country to comment on it until this investigation is completed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic134x.u13	Mr Secretary of State, I would like to reply because I feel that we are washing our hands too quickly from what is happening on the spot. Of course, legislative mechanisms have been put in place in Brazil to protect workers from a wide range of exploitative situations. However, responsibility is now multiple. It is the responsibility of companies to place these workers in situations where they can no longer rely on existing legal mechanisms. Recruited in their native areas, they were taken to the orange plantations; they even owed themselves to go to work there. Companies make them real slaves who do not use existing mechanisms because they are expensive, because they will prefer a financial transaction and earn some tickets, rather than enter into a lengthy procedure. It is therefore, I repeat, the responsibility of companies. But it is also your responsibility! When you go there and discuss this issue, it is your responsibility to punch your fist on the table and express what we think of this way of doing things. As much as you have relayed the demands of the authority for a quieter trade between Brazil and Europe and a relaxation of the overly demanding rules on the European market, as much as you are silent about a problematic situation that does not deserve to be ignored. I am therefore somewhat puzzled by the answer given to me. This is an account of the information you have received and the few exchanges you have had. I do not feel that you are taking a position on the matter. What worries me more is that I do not have the impression that, when you were there, you took a position consistent with your Government's statement and with the stated willingness to put in place a National Business and Human Rights Action Plan. If this National Action Plan is drafted in the same way as I have just heard, I see the worst fears about its content and how it will be implemented abroad.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic134x.u14	Thank you for your comments. What is interesting is that Walloon Minister-President Magnette will soon be visiting Brazil. His arrival is already announced. I propose that all the comments you have just made be forwarded to him. If you do not have the opportunity, I will take the freedom to do so. I know Mr. Magnette well, since we were colleagues in a government. Perhaps he may be able to relieve your sentences somewhat when he is there to present his city's candidacy in Brazil. Will Brazilians still support his candidacy? Your comments are very interesting, and I'll take care of them. I propose that the minister-president of the Walloon government also take care of this when he moves to Brazil.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic134x.u15	I'll reassure you right away. I have indeed questioned several other people, either the President and the Vice-President of the IPU Brazil-Belgium Section or the Minister-President of Wallonia, since I have been informed of the organisation of this mission. Again, this is everyone's responsibility, you understand. I didn't hear anything in your answer, nothing at all, while you were there, when you specifically addressed this issue. At no time did you report problems related to production in this sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic134x.u16	I have a suggestion for you. The ruling party in Brazil is part of the Socialist International.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic134x.u17	Mr. Secretary of State, when will you finally assume your responsibilities? You keep sending the ball back to the others. Were you not there? Maybe you didn't talk about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic134x.u18	Certainly.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic134x.u19	There! That's enough now! I'm sick of your suggestions!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic134x.u20	Mrs Grovonius, I will also allow myself to send a second letter to your party president (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic134x.u21	Obviously, you're stronger at sending mail than talking to people in front of you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic134x.u22	I speak to them in Portuguese. It's a great advantage to get the message across. So I have two letters to send, one to the minister-president of the Walloon government (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic134x.u23	I hope that your busy schedule will allow you to do so. I'm afraid that will cause you a new workload!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic134x.u24	I feel like I see them more often than you do!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic134x.u25	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for the very comprehensive report on your activities in Brazil. Despite a great deal of information, I am still a little hungry about my questions about concrete elements. Perhaps a piece was lost in your statement.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic134x.u26	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic134x.u27	Beautiful. Thanks for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic134x.u28	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I would just like to focus on the opportunities for foreign trade. I have heard many possibilities and opportunities and yet some results from your visit, but I wonder if your services also provide a specific form of follow-up. I know, of course, that the companies themselves provide their own follow-up, but do you also provide for some kind of follow-up? Is a mission planned from Brazilians to Belgium, for example?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic134x.u29	One of the most important members of the Brazilian Government, the Minister for Agriculture, will be in Brussels within fourteen days. That will be the first moment of succession.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic134x.u30	Mr Secretary of State, on 12 February you met the Nicaraguan Minister for Public Policy and apparently talked to him about the plans to dig a new channel in Nicaragua between the Atlantic and the Pacific. You have promoted the Belgian expertise on dredging, maritime constructions and salinisation problems. However, there is a lot of criticism of the project on the ground. For example, funding would be inadequate and the project would have a major environmental impact on local residents. In addition, the project would involve a Chinese company which has little or no experience of large construction projects, but which would have an excessive advantage over Nicaragua for exploitation rights. What are the concrete opportunities for Belgian companies in the mega-project? Are there any companies active yet? Have any companies been contacted yet? Have any appointments been made? What is your position on the criticism that residents need to move? Did you discuss that with the Minister? The works were awarded to a Chinese company. What are the chances that Belgian companies will be allocated a part of the works?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic134x.u31	The Nicaraguan Minister for Public Policy, Mr Paul Oquist, visited Belgium and the European Union from 11 to 16 February. The meeting with Mr Oquist, which of course took place in Spanish, focused mainly on the Nicaraguan canal project, which included, in addition to the construction of an interocean canal, the construction of two ports, an international airport, roads and real estate projects. Because there may be opportunities for the Belgian dredging and construction companies, I brought the maritime expertise of our Belgian companies to the attention and said that the Belgian input is necessary for the concrete realization of the project. In addition to our know-how in dredging, locks and tides, I advanced our expertise in desalination. Two Belgian companies are currently active in the project, in particular the engineering company SBE and Jan De Zero. SBE, the Studiebureau voor Bouwkunde en Expertises, has already made a design for the management of locks and water management. The University of Leuven could also play a role in connection with water treatment, given its know-how in this area. Although the environmental impact studies have not yet been completed and are only published in the course of 2015, the channel project does not unexpectedly raise a certain resistance to the public due to possible expropriation, environmental impacts and lack of participation moments. Mr Oquist assured me that the starting point of the project is that every family should be better off in the end than before. According to him, the project would give Nicaragua an economic boost. For example, there is a plan to create agricultural land in some form of compensation in addition to the canal. The contract for construction was indeed held by HKND, a Hong Kong-based holding company. HKND has assigned the first assignments in the megaproject visibility and design to one of the largest Chinese state-owned companies, China Railway Construction Cooperation, the CRCC. Other Chinese companies were approached for machinery construction. The fact that Belgian companies have a chance to cooperate and already do so is demonstrated by the fact that SBE was invited by HKND to participate. Finally, Mr Oquist informed me that Nicaragua was open to a trade mission of interested Belgian companies.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic134x.u32	Mr Secretary of State, allow me to ask another question about something that was not so clear to me. You say that agricultural land is seen as compensation. So is it true that the locals will have to move because of the project?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic134x.u33	Well, it's a compensatory arrangement. I am not speaking on behalf of the Nicaraguan Government. However, I can say that there is an awareness, especially because of the great support that the current regime has always received from the farmers' population, that a compensatory arrangement must be developed or deported. In doing so, money may be paid for expropriation where appropriate, which should allow farmers and farms to continue or expand their activities with any additional support.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic134x.u34	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, you also travelled to India for a trade mission. Of course, that country has an enormous growing economic interest on a global scale and has extensive bilateral trade relations with Belgium. I therefore have a number of questions about the mission. Firstly, more generally, what were the results on investment in Belgium and India? Secondly, have agreements been concluded between Belgium and India? Finally, I would like to comment on a specific part of your agenda. You participated in the Economic Times Global Business Summit in Delhi. This summit not only collects Indian and foreign managers, but also politicians and academics from around the world. What were the results of this summit? Can you tell us more about that? In what sense was it important for our country that you participated in that summit? Have you been able to establish certain contacts?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic134x.u35	Mr President, Mrs Claerhout, I have received your question with great interest and will answer it with equal interest. India, as a BRICS country with a huge domestic market, is of particular importance to our own trade and economy and, by enlargement, to trade in the European Union. Belgium is India's 12th most important trading partner worldwide and Belgium is the third largest trading partner in the European Union. More than one hundred and sixty Belgian companies have branches in India and their number is growing sharply, and about eighty Indian companies are active in our country. Under the leadership of Prime Minister Modi, the Indian Government is implementing an ambitious reform agenda. I was the first member of the current Belgian federal government to visit the country, with the main aim of laying the foundations for the Belgian contribution to the implementation of the reform agenda. In the days preceding the Economic Times Global Business Summit, I had a series of bilateral contacts with several ministers of the Modi government, including in the field of transport and water treatment, and with the Indian and Belgian business community. These contacts enabled me to identify a number of dossiers as a priority for Belgian companies and to build on the contacts made during the princely trade mission to India, organised by the Agency for Foreign Trade in 2013. These contacts must be effective in the short term. Important was my meeting with the Indian Minister for Water and River Development, Mrs Uma Bharti. After all, the Indian government led by Prime Minister Modi makes clean water a top priority. In my maintenance I have therefore put the emphasis on the enormous Belgian expertise in the field of water treatment. I also made a plea for the use of Belgian expertise in cleaning up, cleaning up and making the Ganges healthy. In my interview with the Minister for Shipping, Mr Nitin Jairam Gadkari, and with the main trading partners of the port of Antwerp, I pointed out the enormous importance of the port of Antwerp as a gateway to our country and to Europe. Conversely, Belgian companies also have an important role to play in India, including by participating in major infrastructure projects. The Indian government will also cooperate with the Antwerp port training centre Antwerp/Flanders Port Training Center (APEC), in a new training centre in Mumbai, where Belgian instructors will give courses to Indian port people. With this, the port of Antwerp exports its know-how and maintains excellent contacts with the Indian port sector. I also had a brief meeting with the Minister for Railways, Mr Suresh Prabhu. India wants to invest heavily in rail infrastructure, and I see a role for Belgian companies specialising in the rail sector. I also took part in the television debate "Global Trade, the Road after Bali', where I advocated a rapid signature of the free trade agreement between India and the European Union. I also sat in front of a round table on bilateral trade operations between Belgium and India. In the margins of the Summit, I also had discussions with a large number of politicians, entrepreneurs and experts, including the American Nobel Prize winner and Professor Paul Krugman, who knows Belgium well and especially the Leuven Alma Mater. It was my intention to put our country on the map at this summit, which had the ambition to be some sort of mini-Davos. My presence made it clear to the Indian Government that our country has the ambition to further develop existing trade relations with India. I think I can speak of success; the trade relations between Belgian companies and the Indian economic world have in any case already been strengthened by this short mission.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic134x.u36	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, I hope that this can be followed up.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic134x.u37	Debates of the European Parliament 2935 by Mrs Jadin has been converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Dallemagne's 3499 lapsed because he did not inform the House that he could not be present.
