ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic074x.u1	Mr President, Minister, in recent years several European countries have repatriated their gold reserves, notably the Netherlands with 120 tons – the transport has had to be special. It would appear, I have read a few documents on this, that Germany or Austria are also seeking to repatriate their gold outside their borders. Minister, do you have any idea why these countries are returning? Has there already been a debate at European level on this subject? Is there a coordinated policy at ECB level? More technical questions: where are our reserves? I'm telling you, I didn't know that. I don't think it's in your pocket. In which countries are Belgium's gold reserves held? Does Belgium also intend to repatriate this gold?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic074x.u2	Minister, it is a rather delicate matter and it is also difficult to communicate on it. Those countries that ask for repatriation do so in complete secrecy. I would like to put the questions to you anyway. I leave it to the Minister, of course, to decide whether it is within his capacity to give an answer. Many countries still have gold reserves, so do Belgium. Belgium's gold stock would be around 227 tonnes. Most of them are stored at the Bank of England. A much smaller amount is held at the Bank of Canada and the Bank for International Settlements. The National Bank of Belgium has also stored a very limited amount of gold in its safe. Currently, some large European countries, including Germany and the Netherlands, are recovering their gold stock from the US, where it is stored. One of the reasons would be that there could be doubts about the ownership of the precious metal. It is no secret that central bankers have lent their gold reserves massively in recent years. It was a way of rendering the gold reserve. In the meantime, however, certain deposits would have frequently signed lease contracts on the same bars of gold. This does not in itself pose a problem, but if the owners suddenly claim their physical gold massively, then the system implode. Another reason not to do the storage of gold in our own country was security. Today the National Bank will be perfectly equipped for this and if you need additional security, you can temporarily switch on additional security until that problem is solved. I have the following questions, Minister. Can you tell us what the value of the Belgian gold was on 31 December? What is the cost of the stockage of the Belgian gold reserve? At present there are some countries that are recovering their gold supply. Some countries do not communicate on this issue, but prepare for this recovery behind the scenes. If everyone recovers their gold stock at the same time, this may cause problems and possibly, at worst, the scenario first come, first served. Belgium already has a small gold stock, since the National Bank sold a large volume in 2000. Recovery can therefore be carried out quickly in principle. Will the Belgian authorities communicate about any recovery, given the possible option to prepare, like other countries, the concrete implementation in secret, given the risks involved? If you will communicate, can you inform me if Belgium will also recover and store its gold at the National Bank of Belgium? What's the timetable? When could this operation take place?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic074x.u3	Mr President, according to Nederlandsche Bank's communication on the subject, the repatriation of gold would be due to what it calls a balanced distribution of gold reserves between the various locations. Since the location of the gold reserves is the responsibility of the central banks, on whose balance sheet they are recorded respectively, there is no debate on the matter at European level or coordinated policies within the Eurosystem. The market value of the Belgian gold was rounded up to EUR 7.2 billion on 31 December 2014. As Mr Van Biesen has already pointed out, a very limited package of these is present in the suitcases of the National Bank of Belgium. The Bank of England and to a lesser extent the Bank of Canada and the Bank for International Settlements (BIS) or the Bank for International Settlements (BIS) are also involved. The cost of storing gold reserves is approximately EUR 250 000 on an annual basis. As for the question of the possible repatriation by Belgium of gold reserves, as the Governor of the National Bank has pointed out, in a rather recent press interview, the National Bank is proactively studying this issue. It is obvious that any ex ante announcement or statement in this regard would be rather inappropriate. For obvious reasons, the National Bank does not, of course, communicate in advance about gold movements or about security measures relating to gold.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic074x.u4	Minister, thank you for your answer. To be sure we understand, we have gold worth about 7.2 billion, which is distributed to the NBB, Canada and the United Kingdom. Is that it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic074x.u5	And in Basel, Switzerland, at the Bank for International Settlements (BIS), the Bank for International Settlements.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic074x.u6	I did not hear in the answer the cost of this storage!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic074x.u7	250 000 euros per year for all storage!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic074x.u8	One could create an activity on Belgian territory, such as building a safe and maintaining it for this prize!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic074x.u9	I will share your suggestion with the government!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic074x.u10	Thank you!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic074x.u11	Minister, a good listener only needs one word. I understand that the National Bank is considering an operation as in the Netherlands. It therefore seems logical that we should wait until the thought is fulfilled.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic074x.u12	Mr. President, Minister, paper science journals benefit from a 6% VAT reduction rather than 21%. University libraries are delighted to do so, as they can make more journals available. However, electronic journals do not enjoy the same advantage since they are subject to a VAT of 21%. In view of their educational objective and the paper economy achieved by the use of electronic journals, it would seem quite logical that they should be placed on an equal footing with their paper counterparts by applying the same VAT rate. Especially since in several European countries, but also outside Europe, this amount of tax associated with electronic documentation is significantly lower. This therefore penalizes our country's research sector in comparison to others. Minister, why is the 6% VAT rate not applied to electronic journals, as is the case for paper journals? Is it planned to harmonise the VAT rate applied to scientific electronic journals, with the aim of encouraging university libraries to obtain electronic subscriptions rather than paper, where possible, in a logic of economy and ecology? If this is not possible, are you considering granting a specific subsidy to university libraries to compensate them for the additional cost of this rate of 21%?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic074x.u13	Mr President, the Sixth VAT Directive of 2006 allows Member States to apply a reduced VAT rate for the delivery of books, periodicals and newspapers provided that this reduced rate is not less than 5%. This is the legal basis for applying the reduced VAT rate of 6% to books and periodicals in Belgium. An electronic review is based on a dematerialized medium. In the absence of tangible property, the supply of such property is considered to be a supply of services. At present, the Sixth Directive explicitly excludes the application of a reduced VAT rate to services provided by electronic means. Therefore, digital periodicals must be subject to the standard VAT rate. However, in 2011, the European Council introduced a resolution calling for a coherent fiscal policy for cultural goods, whether in physical or digital form. To date, no agreement has been reached to make the same cultural content available in paper or digital format equivalent. In view of developments in society, however, such equivalence is desirable.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic074x.u14	Minister, thank you for your clarification. You therefore want the VAT rate to be harmonised and even reduced. I ask you to work on this, because it's important for culture, scientists, libraries. I think it will be unanimous without any problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic074x.u15	Mr President, Minister, on 16 December 2014, I asked you about the consequences of the changeover 3 on the Maintenance Receivables Service (SECAL) and, in particular, the excess of work resulting from the increase in the revenue ceiling for the use of this service. It was agreed in committee that you would provide me with written answers to a number of questions. Since nothing has been sent to me since then, I would like to ask you again today by updating my question a little bit. Minister, how many new families could benefit from this service as a result of the increase in the income ceiling? I was particularly interested in that figure. How many new files could be introduced in the coming years? Has a staffing needs assessment already been carried out in view of the workload that will increase in the future? How many officers are assigned to this service today? Will any arrangements be made to increase staff and enable this service to cope with this increase in demands and thus properly continue its missions? In the newspaper Le Soir of 5 January, many associations deplore the lack of funding for this service. An increase of €1.2 million was granted for 2015, whereas it would have taken almost 8 million according to the Finance SPF report. Do you intend to adjust the appropriations granted to SECAL during the next budgetary control? Can you already assure us that this budget can be released? One final question: these same associations called you and wanted to meet you. Has an appointment ever been fixed? Can these associations be involved in discussions about the future and the proper functioning of this service, which plays a key role in the fight against poverty?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic074x.u16	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for these questions. In the research report prepared by Professor Pacolet of the Catholic University of Leuven, under the mandate of the SPF Finances, and available on the SECAL website, it was estimated, on the basis of the 2009 data, that 4,295 families could be taken into account following the entry into force of the new legislation. This would represent 6,733 children. The additional budget cost was estimated by Mr Pacolet at EUR 8 million. Today, SECAL has 105 employees in external services, corresponding to 69.5 full-time equivalents. No measures of workload were taken following the entry into force of the new Act. The additional workload should therefore be offset by the optimizations proposed in the 2012 workload measurement, which have been implemented or will be implemented in the near future. As a result, since March 1, 2014, SECAL has been integrated into a larger entity, namely the General Administration of Collection and Collection. A computer program of this general administration, called Debt Management, will be adapted in order to better monitor the recovery of maintenance claims. No additional staff are foreseen. Whereas in 2014 the SECAL budget amounted to EUR 24.4 million, a budget of EUR 25.58 million was foreseen for the 2015 budget year in order to ensure the payment of advances on maintenance claims. The situation will be reviewed during budgetary control 2015. A commission to evaluate the law of 21 February 2003 establishing SECAL was established by the Royal Decree of 10 August 2005 within the SPF Finances. The associations concerned with this issue are represented. I have asked my administration to review the progress of this committee today, but I have not yet received a response.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic074x.u17	Minister, thank you for your answers. I will come back to the question that remains unanswered, for which you still expect some answers on the state of play of the committee's discussions in relation to the SECAL. I would also like to thank you for the various figures. However, I remain concerned about the feasibility of whether the SECAL will be able to carry out its tasks in the future. It will be essential to reflect on the issue. I will therefore come back to the matter in the context of the budgetary adjustment. I am also concerned to hear that you have no additional staff to respond to these additional demands, even though it is known that SECAL is already saturated. Inevitably, difficulties will be encountered in the management of these files, which must be dealt with quickly for the well-being of applicants. Mr Minister, I would therefore ask you to re-evaluate this matter. Is there really no possibility of providing additional staff and acting fairly quickly, among other things, by increasing the budget so that the ESAL missions can continue, continue so as to remain an effective service for families in difficulty?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic074x.u18	Questions Nos 1366 and 1367 by Mr Mathot are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic074x.u19	Minister, I must almost apologize for having to bring it up again.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic074x.u20	I'm used to a lot of things in the meantime.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic074x.u21	I assume so, but it's still a bizarre story. I have drawn up my question in response to another statement in the VTM journal some time ago from one of the important ministers of this government, in particular Kris Peeters. As far as we are concerned, he is quite right to insist on the capital gains tax. He did make the link with budgetary control. I also read afterwards that, as a result of Europe's report, the government faces a serious challenge. There's got to be a reassignment. In doing so, pistes circulate where the capital gains tax, which the CD&V refers to, would be less realised in the context of a tax shift, which we stand for, but in the context of putting the budget in order. Vice Prime Minister Kris Peeters also spoke at that time of passive capital that he wants to activate. What he means by that is still unclear, but perhaps the chairman of the committee who is also chairman of the internal working group within the CD&V could explain that. The other Deputy Prime Minister Jan Jambon then said during the weekend, not unjustly I think, that the honking should stop now. You thought this was over? Of course it is: one week says this, the other week says that. I would like to hear from you whether it is in the context of budgetary control in March that you are preparing a tax shift exercise, or is that separate? Is it really the intention of this government to come to Parliament in March with a real proposal and a tax shift? A tax shift which means that an income from property will be taxed more and an income from labour will be taxed less.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic074x.u22	Mr President, Minister, it is true that many people are asking for fairer taxation on capital income. This was said on the benches of the opposition, as well as by prominent members of the government. This has also been said by workers' organisations, by economists, in short by a whole series of people who agree that, if additional resources are to be found, we must try to do so in the least harmful way possible to the economic fabric, while at the same time meeting an objective of tax justice which, I believe, is shared by everyone. Moreover, the government agreement states that the widest, strongest shoulders must bear the greatest effort. It seems important to us today to know the timetable and guiding principles of the Minister of Finance. Indeed, we can see that the government has acted quickly to adopt many measures. The programme law has been wide-ranging, including measures concerning the taxation of natural persons and other tax registers, the comprehensive reform of secret commissions, the reform of the liquidation reserve, etc. The government has also been quick to take certain measures such as index jumps or pension measures. Why do we take so long for the tax shift? I don't understand. What are you going to do, Minister, to make our taxes fairer, to increase disposable income by reducing labour taxes by offsetting taxes on capital income and, in total, to strengthen citizens' purchasing power?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic074x.u23	Thank you for the questions. As I replied to a question from Mr Calvo on 6 January 2015, we intend to take concrete recommendations to the government table in March to begin the discussion on the letter and spirit of the coalition agreement. I am talking about the tax shift, actually the second tax shift already from this government after the tax shift that is now in progress and was explicitly provided for in the coalition agreement. This corresponds to budgetary control. In the short term, however, the exercise of a tax shift does not constitute a contribution to that which must be made during budgetary control. If we succeed, through a shift tax, and this is important, in stimulating the potential for longer-term growth, it goes without saying that this will have repercussions on public finances and on the budgetary balance.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic074x.u24	Mr Vanvelthoven, has your hunger been appeased?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic074x.u25	Mr. Secretary, you're answering a little cryptic. If I may interpret the answer, this does not necessarily mean that taxes on property income will lead to less labour costs. By way of a detour, the objective may also be to stimulate the economy without a reduction in labour costs.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic074x.u26	We are really studying the effects of valuation on the growth capacities of the economy. I am convinced that Mr Van Rompuy makes similar exercises in his working group. I'm curious to put that next to each other. If we can really promote the growth capacity of the economy, we will have a real effect on the budget in the long term. This can be important in our discussions with Europe. Increasing the potential growth of the economy is a very important issue in the budgetary discussion with the European authorities. There is also the question of deadlines. Some effects are immediate, others are in the longer term. In the long run, we are all dead . But there are between the very short term and that perspective all kinds of intermediate phases... We must be careful not to allow ourselves to be caught up in the tax shift by increasing taxes which in the long term will then have to go out and do all kinds of new things in order to keep the tax package intact.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic074x.u27	I agree you're looking into that thoroughly, but if I say this, did I misunderstand? I'll say something I might have understood from your explanation. The objective must be to strengthen the economy. For us, the objective is also fair taxation, but well, that will also be included, I suppose. For example, strengthening the economy could also be pumping capital gains tax revenues into the economy for additional investments. This could also be a means of strengthening the economy. That's not what we're talking about?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic074x.u28	The main objective is to reduce taxes on labour because the critical factor, with the ageing of the population, is the available labour package in the economy. Companies can only produce if they also have the people to do the various tasks and they must also be willing to recruit those people.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic074x.u29	This clarifies the lack of clarity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic074x.u30	Mr. Chair, what is important is all that is not in the minister's response. It's a good idea to do our questions and inquiries in the afternoon because we often stay hungry with the Minister of Finance. It is better to come after eating because we cannot really say that his answers fill us! Minister, by tax shift, we do not mean a shift from income tax on labour to consumption, for example. I am betting that some people are thinking about it within the government, but if it is to explain to us that we are going to reduce the tax on natural persons and that we are going to compensate for it with an increase in VAT, it is not the tax shift. The tax shift we are talking about is a shift from taxation on labour income to taxation on capital income. Whether it is financial income, whether it is capital gains, in short, the whole base that constitutes the income of capital. We can't hear it! We can see that you continue to mask your game, which I can understand, but you are telling us at the same time that the tax shift will have no effect for the 2015 fiscal year. I don't know how you're going to do it because you're probably still going to have to look around $1.5 billion because of the growth parameters that are being changed and because the Commission is challenging some of your revenue. I am talking about the structural balance, I am not talking about the debt-relief requirements where the effort is in billions of euros. I'm worried, I feel like we're not gonna see anything happen! Minister, your answer is a non-response which unfortunately indicates that the CD&V appeal will certainly not be heard.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic074x.u31	Mr President, I am sure you will recall that, in committee, in the framework of the programme law, we have also held a very wide-ranging debate in plenary on the taxation of intercommunals. We have tried to clarify this. What intercommunals are meant and what are the consequences of this? The problem of non-profit and the possible consequences for hospitals was also discussed in detail at that time. In our view, it all remained very vague and unclear. The discussion ended in a vote in which the proposal, as incorporated into the programme law, was voted against by a majority. Now, in the notification of a week after the debate in Parliament, 18 December 2014, I read and quote: "A working group on policy coordination which will meet on the initiative of the representative of the Minister of Finance, composed of representatives of the Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Ministers and the Minister of Social Affairs and Public Health, is tasked with examining as soon as possible the concrete scope of the hospital structures of the legislative provisions designed to provide a loyal, fiscal communication between the public and the private sector within the framework of the intercommunals. That is precisely the clarification we asked the government for before the vote. You blew all that off a little bit back then. A week after the debate in Parliament, the euro or the franc seems to fall on the government that it is not so obvious. A working group on policy coordination will be set up. We think that's a bit of a weird way of working. It would normally be expected that the scope of what is being presented to Parliament would be examined first and only then will it be debated and voted on. Here is the reverse, first vote and then afterwards see what it all means. I have three questions for you, Minister. Firstly, why was the scope of hospital structures not examined before the legal texts were adopted? What's the sudden reason why that investigation is needed now? Secondly, why is research limited to hospital structures and not extended to intercommunal services which perform a purely public function and which in other words are not competitive for the private sector? Thirdly, what is the timing you put on this investigation?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic074x.u32	Mr Vanvelthoven, during the parliamentary examination of the programme law of 19 December which amended the tax regime of the intercommunals, several members of the Finance Commission appeared to have raised questions about the specific impact on specific intercommunals, in particular hospitals. During these sessions I partially replied to the questions raised. In order to remove the doubt completely, you quoted it yourself from the notification, the government decided immediately afterwards to include those clarifications in a circular. This circular is currently being finalised and will be distributed with all possible clarifications upon completion. However, I cannot put a date on that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic074x.u33	Of course, Minister, you are choosing the method you want. However, I think that Members of the majority should ask themselves that we vote on something whose specific scope is not known. What the hell are we doing? Of course, that's a problem. There are a lot of questions about that and they have been rightly asked. Yet this majority says, we vote that regardless of its scope. We'll see what the circular brings. Let us hope that the report will lead to a revision of the legislation itself because we believe that there are a number of gaps and problems for many intercommunals.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic074x.u34	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Mathot's 1575 is withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic074x.u35	Mr President, it is important to reiterate the VAT obligation of the AGB debt holders, because this is still unclear. Mr Minister, in April 2014, your predecessor said here that autonomous municipal companies that develop activities that are subject to the exemption on the basis of the non-profit-making basis fall outside the scope of the exemption when their statutes provide for any profits to be distributed to members and effectively do so. With this reply, the Minister followed the statement made by Mr Jamar in 2007. That statement was subsequently taken over repeatedly by the department's prior decisions of your administration. Despite these clear positions, the autonomous municipal authorities are concerned by the position recently taken by the Special Tax Inspectorate. Without complying with the decrepit provisions on autonomous municipal companies in relation to their city or municipality, the BBI considers autonomous municipal companies for profit as acting as a public authority without distortion of competition, which would mean that they are not subject to VAT. It has also been discussed in the Flemish Parliament. In the Board of Directors, Minister Homans, in response to a parliamentary question, asks that municipalities that have concluded a ruling with the administration should not worry. Should other autonomous municipal companies, even though many have aligned the creation of their business with the local VAT administration, be concerned? Will the BBI consider all autonomous municipal authorities that have not concluded a ruling with the administration, even if they carry out the same activities, as undertakings acting as public authorities without distortion of competition? Should it be concluded that the administrative procedure for applying for a ruling for an autonomous municipal authority is determining whether or not VAT is due? You will notice, Minister, that the answer given by your Flemish colleague once again raises questions and doubts. Therefore, it is not clear to the Autonomous Local Authorities in this context to what extent the BBI's sudden statement is part of the provisions of stable and legally secure taxation included in the Government Agreement of 9 October 2014. The government agreement also included that fair taxation with loyal tax competition will be ensured, within all activities and sectors, as well as between the private and public sectors. I would like to explain, Minister, what the administration of the Special Tax Inspectorate intends to do to approach the autonomous municipal companies outside the context of the government agreement. Are your previous arguments maintained, also in the light of various preliminary decisions and the legal framework on distortion of competition? Has the administration concerned been given new orders for this purpose or has it itself expanded its mandates? What's the next move? What clear and coherent answer can we give about AGB's VAT liability?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic074x.u36	Mr Deseyn, the issue of the VAT liability of AGB debt holders has already been addressed in my reply to Mrs Barbara's oral question at the committee meeting of 16 December 2014. In that reply, I pointed out that professional secrecy, which, of course, is also held by the FPS Finance officials, expressly prohibits me from saying anything about specific tax dossiers. The same applies to this issue. For the sake of completeness, I can inform you that several autonomous municipal companies scattered throughout the territory are indeed currently subject to tax controls by the General Administration of the BBI. Moreover, tax controls can always be carried out on all taxable persons, regardless of their status. I would like to emphasise that, among other things, the task of the tax administrations is to monitor the effective application of the rulings granted, for example the correct presentation and implementation of them. Therefore, the existence of a ruling does not in itself affect the selection or the correction of a file.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic074x.u37	Minister, it was important to ask the question, given the remarks made in the Flemish Parliament. It is good that the control is clearly distinguished from the existence or non-existence of a ruling. We will see if there are any further concrete questions to the AGBs. VAT recovery or not, of course, has a significant financial impact on the AGBs concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic074x.u38	There are a lot of municipalities, including my own municipality, in that situation. We build a cultural centre with a cost of 25 million euros, VAT included. Through the AGB, the price will be only EUR 20 million. So EUR 5 million is deductible. This has very serious consequences. We have done the creation in the context that VAT would be deductible in the future. If the government changes its attitude, it will create serious problems for many municipalities. However, we are not yet ready to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic074x.u39	For question No. Question No 15, by Mr Van Rompuy Mr Gilkinet asked Mr Gilkinet to wait. After all, he's on another committee. He'll be here later. Debates of the European Parliament 1598 by Mrs Pas has been transferred to another committee. For question No. Question No 16, by Mrs Pas and Question No 16, by Mrs Cassanmagnago Cerretti 1699 by Mr Wathelet have informed the questioners that they will come later.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic074x.u40	Minister, if we look at the way in which the declaration has been made, things have been much better lately through Tax-on-Web and a lot of computerization has already been done. However, if a number of statistics are placed side by side, one way or another there may be a suspicion that the tax authorities tend to slow down when they have to make refunds. For example, I brought a specific case. I won't mention the name of the person who had to get back. For the 2009 income year, he received his overpaid farm levy in October 2010. For the 2011 income year, he received this in November 2012. Each year it is seen that the bills are being sent more and more slowly. For the 2013 tax year, in other words income 2012, he received this just before New Year 2013. If you look at this, it's another month later. For the 2014 tax year, income 2013, he has not received any tax bill until now. In other words, this will be a delay of three to four months compared to the other years. If we compare a number of dossiers, there appears to be even a limit that can be fixed, around EUR 2 250. In the case of persons in receipt of this amount, a further delay in reimbursement occurs. In other words, Minister, can you tell us why these refunds are being stopped, what amount is it actually going to be? Is there such a key or limit of EUR 2 250 in there? What is the number of bills to be paid? How many payments have already been received? What amount are we talking about? You know that it is one of the foundations of fair taxes that everyone pays their taxes in time, but also that everyone withdraws their taxes in time. It would be better if the corporate tax were better aligned with reality so that the interest-free loans that a number of citizens give to the State every year could be reduced. It used to be expressed in billions of euros. According to some data, people still have to withdraw more than one billion because the corporate tax is too high. So my question is simply: do you confirm that there is such a system, or is it merely a coincidence that we find it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic074x.u41	Mr Van Biesen, legally the 2014 tax bill on the 2013 income can be drawn up until 30 June 2015. The handling of the declarations and the hit notes is managed by a closed computerised system to ensure that all citizens are treated equally. The administration does not grant preferential treatment for the processing of declarations and for the transmission of tax returns. No distinction shall be made according to whether the assessment shows an amount to be paid or recovered. In principle, the first hit notes are those of the declarations received first and thus dealt with first. First in, first out . With a view to the internal organisation of the work, the processing of a declaration may take more or less time and affect the rate of collection, or in other words the preparation of the tax returns. The administration shall make every effort to get the declarations processed as soon as possible. We will also examine the possibility of establishing a more stable system for the processing of declarations in the future. I'll give you a few more figures. In January, 1 039 058 declarations will be returned, of which 736 487 will be returned to taxable persons for a total amount of EUR 1.8 billion. 204 582 taxpayers will have to pay a sum of EUR 400 million in total. 97 989 taxable persons will have a nulaan hit. Taxpayers who expect a refund will be reimbursed by the end of March. With regard to the deposit notes with an amount to be paid, which were sent in the course of January 2015, in principle, payment must also be made no later than two months after the delivery of the deposit note. Most taxpayers will therefore pay by the end of March 2015. Nevertheless, some of those concerned already pay during January and February, which are good citizens. However, some of them will only pay later and will therefore have to pay for the residual costs. Exactly how many people will pay in January 2015, I cannot say at this time since the month has not yet ended.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic074x.u42	Mr President, Minister, the system itself is not unknown to me, since I still make a few hundred declarations a year. But you have to admit, in January, 1.9 million attacks will be carried out, and coincidentally, there is most of them, with a return of EUR 1.8 billion. It's not a coincidence that this is January. If the figures were compared to last year, I would not be surprised if these attacks had happened, as I have shown in the example. It would not seem strange to me that in that automated system there is a key that somehow slows down for those who have to withdraw. Saying it's all a coincidence seems a little too much to believe in the coincidence. It reminds me a bit of copiers that are being delivered and that after a while they suddenly fall out, it turns out that they are programmed, they can only go with a limited number of copies, otherwise they will not buy new ones. Mr Minister, you must ask for a second opinion for those automated systems. You should ask whether there is a key in there that will trigger an automatic delay if you have to withdraw and are above the limit of EUR 2 250. I would ask you to give the order to check on the administration, because there is a coincidence, but so many similar cases, that seems strange to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic074x.u43	Mr Minister, on corporate taxation, the programme law of 19 December 2014 published in the Belgian Official Journal of 29 December 2014, introduced new provisions on the special assessment of unpaid costs and hidden additional profits. The entry into force of these new provisions was not linked to an attack year, but as defined in Article 40 of the abovementioned Programme Act: "Articles 28 to 39 shall enter into force on the date of publication of this Act in the Belgian Official Journal and shall apply to all disputes which have not yet been definitively concluded on the date of entry into force'. In view of the date of publication, the new legislation therefore entered into force on 29 December. Can you confirm, Minister, that the new rules also apply to past disputes, which have not yet arisen on 29 December? As an example, I have a discussion about the taxable era that ended on 31 December 2012, which would only arise in the course of 2015. Can you confirm that, pursuant to the provisions of the entry into force, the new legislation applies to all attacks involving the special attack, even if they are linked to tax years prior to the 2015 tax year, but are returned from 29 December 2014?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic074x.u44	Mr Van Biesen, I have just given you a long answer, which was not entirely satisfactory, as I was able to derive from your reply. I will now give you a very brief answer, which I hope you will be able to satisfy. The answer to both questions is yes, I can confirm that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic074x.u45	I'm briefly satisfied for once.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic074x.u46	Mr President, Minister, since 1 January 2015, the new energy agreements with energy-intensive companies entered into force in Flanders. The old ones ended on December 31, 2014. Until then, the scheme had been in place that there were a whole range of benefits from the public authorities. As far as the federal government is concerned, these were notably reduced excise duties and reduced contributions to electricity and gas. Mr Minister, in order to have a similar arrangement for the new agreements, there was a procedure pending before the European Commission. As the President indicated, Flemish Minister Turtelboom stated in the Flemish Parliament that you unilaterally withdrew the application procedure without consultation. If this measure is not extended, it will have serious consequences for the energy-intensive companies in Flanders. And these companies are not unimportant to the Flemish economy. Why did you withdraw this pending procedure from the European Commission? Why did you not first consult with the state authorities, as Mrs Turtelboom's criticism was? What were the specific objections raised by the European Commission's Directorate-General for Competition? According to some sources, we hear that they were such that the current application was hopeless. Others tell us that the discussion between the Energy and Climate Service, on the one hand, and the services responsible for monitoring competition in the Commission, on the other, has not yet been resolved. I would have liked to have been clear about the arguments and whether that situation was indeed hopeless. Finally, what are the consequences for the new agreements if the application is withdrawn? What are your alternatives? What can these companies expect in return?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic074x.u47	Mr President, Mrs Pas, the application for state aid to which you refer was withdrawn following an extensive conference call with the Directorate-General for Competition of the European Commission. During that interview, which took place on 16 December 2014, the General Executive Board of the Directorate-General for Competition explicitly asked us to withdraw the application as there was no chance of success. It is true that the request for withdrawal from the European Commission was made at the final stage of the examination of the application. As the procedure for requesting additional information had expired, the European Commission could not request further explanations from the Regions. The original application for State aid dates from 18 July 2014. This application was preceded by an application for prior notification on 1 February 2013. This application has already received a clear negative opinion from the European Commission. During the relevant conference call of 16 December 2014, the European Commission pointed out that, despite all the information provided by the regions in the original application and all the replies subsequently provided by the regions to the numerous additional questions put by the European Commission, the acceptance criteria set out in the State Aid Guidelines were still not met and therefore the decision would be negative across the board. There was no doubt about that. The main objection raised by the European Commission was that it had not been demonstrated that the costs of excise duty could not be passed on to the consumer by the company concerned throughout the production costs. What to do? Since the granting of a reduction in excise duty under an environmental objective permit is no longer legally possible, I have entrusted my administration with the examination of whether the existing provisions on exemption or non-taxability of energy products and electricity fully or partly offset the loss of the benefit of the reduced rates for companies that could benefit from the reduction in excise duty due to having an environmental objective permit. That investigation is currently under way. We are in constant contact with the company federation that groups most companies. Of course, we will do everything possible to remedy this situation, but believe me, the European pathway was a concrete barrier.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic074x.u48	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I assume that when you found out at the conference call on 16 December 2014 that it was a concrete wall that could not be passed, it was decided not to go through with it. According to Mrs Turtelboom, that decision was taken on 22 December 2014, but I do not understand why there had to be another week in those circumstances. It is a pity, however, that she has not been informed of this. There was regular consultation with the state governments. She said she sent you a letter at the beginning of January to obtain information and a statement of reasons. So, unfortunately, something went wrong in the communication. The most important thing is that these alternatives for the companies will certainly come through. That's gonna be necessary. I wish you every success in that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic074x.u49	Mr President, Minister, I would like to question you following the opening of the post of representative of Belgium to the European Investment Bank (EIB). At present, have any candidates ever shown up for this position? What is the procedure for appointing the Belgian representative to the EIB? It would appear that the appointment of a candidate from the private sector for this position is being considered. Is that so? Why give priority to such a candidate?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic074x.u50	Mr President, Mr Crusnière, I can confirm that a new representative of our country must be appointed to the EIB, which will play a very important role in the implementation of the Juncker Plan, which we discussed yesterday at ECOFIN. We will also have a reflection on this in two weeks' time. As regards the procedure to be followed, the Minister of Finance is required to present a new candidate by mail to the President of the EIB. This letter must also be accompanied by the CV of the person in question. The application must then be approved by a simple majority by the governors who represent more than half of the EIB's capital. Upon approval of his application, the applicant may serve as Director on the EIB's Board of Directors. So far, we have not applied to the EIB since the search for the right candidate is under way. It is still too early to answer the question of who will be the new representative. It is quite possible that a person from the private sector may be approached to hold this position. Under the Juncker Plan, the EIB will strengthen its collaboration with partners from the private sector. In the near future, it would seem useful – even if the decision has not yet been made – to work with someone who is accustomed to the approach of the private sector in these investment cases.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic074x.u51	Mr President, the proposal for a Council directive amending Directive No. 2011/16 as regards the mandatory automatic exchange of information in the field of taxation, is not separate from the OECD project on the automatic exchange of the same information nor from the FATCA agreement between Belgium and the United States. At the ECOFIN meeting in October last year, the timing of intra-European exchanges was aligned with the timing of the OECD. The exchange of information with the United States as a result of that FATCA agreement precedes the other timing. By September of this year, the information should actually be exchanged automatically. Firstly, when will you come up with a legal basis for the automatic exchange of information with the United States? In conjunction with this, will the draft be more comprehensive and will the directive also be transposed into Belgian law and provide a legal basis for exchange with non-EU countries? Secondly, in the debriefing in our committee on the Ecofin meeting at the end of 2014, you stated that the privacy aspect was not discussed at that meeting. There is also a privacy directive of Europe, which has since been transposed into national law. I therefore assume that the directive on the exchange of information now being proposed by the Commission does not, of course, contradict that other directive on privacy. Do you agree that these two are not contradictory? Can we therefore conclude that the mere fact that financial data on taxpayers are delivered to the tax administration by financial institutions in bulk, even without an indication of fraud, does not constitute a breach of privacy?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic074x.u52	Mr Vanvelthoven, I asked the administration to prepare a preliminary draft law to allow Belgium to comply with its commitments on the automatic exchange of financial information and financial information, in accordance with the administrative agreement on FATCA concluded with the US on 23 April 2014, in accordance with the multilateral agreement between the competent authorities, concluded on 29 October 2014 between 51 jurisdictions, of which you will remember the signature in Berlin, in accordance with Directive No. 214/107/EU of 9 December 2014 amending the Directive on administrative cooperation in the field of taxation for the automatic and compulsory exchange of information and in accordance with any similar administrative agreement signed under a Tax Convention. This preliminary draft law will soon be submitted to the Council of Ministers. The preliminary draft takes account of the provisions of the Law of 8 December 1992 on the protection of privacy in relation to the processing of personal data. It was submitted for an opinion to the Commission for the Protection of Privacy, which delivered its opinion on 17 December 2014. That advice was published on the Committee's website. For the sake of completeness, this is opinion No. 61/2014. The preliminary draft law was amended in accordance with that opinion. Each institution shall ensure that the data are accurate and up-to-date. In addition, the institutions should inform the persons concerned of the fact that their personal data will be disclosed to third parties and take the necessary measures to ensure that inaccurate or incomplete data is improved. The law specifies the implementing rules on those obligations. The law also confirms that tax administration officials who intervene in the processing of personal data for the purpose of automatic exchange of information must, in addition to the performance of their duties, observe the highest confidentiality with regard to that information. The right of access to that information and to the electronic applications which grant access to it should be limited to what is absolutely necessary for the correct processing of that data. In order to ensure that the residents of Belgium are adequately informed by the financial institutions established in the territory of a jurisdiction other than a Member State of the European Union and by the tax administration of such jurisdiction about the information concerning them, the application of the law for that jurisdiction will be postponed or suspended, where it has been proven that it does not have an infrastructure capable of providing such a guarantee.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic074x.u53	Thank you, Minister, for your reply and look forward to the preliminary draft law. I didn't know there was an opinion from the privacy committee on this matter by now. As I understand it, I can also check that advice on the website.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic074x.u54	For more than 10 years, the housekeepers have been claiming full professional social status, which will bring them more security, stability and serenity than the partial status they enjoy today. During the previous legislature, we conducted hearings and suggested ways forward, but it appeared that responding to concerns about social status, with all the provisions relating to the social law of these workers, had, in general, negative consequences on their net income. In February 2014, Minister Geens gave us a small table, which included estimates based on different scenarios and almost all of them, depending on income and living conditions, the consequences were negative. He also had to provide us at the time with an estimate of the overall fiscal impact, if a status was granted, but we did not receive it before the elections. Negotiations were under way with the federated entities. I believe that apart from this table, which highlighted these net income differences, no more work was done between this month of February and the elections. Since the formation of this government, has this work been pursued in tax assessments, in relations with the ministers of the federated entities and with the Minister of Employment, responsible for implementing the provisions relating to the social status of these workers?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic074x.u55	Mrs Gerkens, first of all, it should be noted that my predecessor, Mr Koen Geens, did indeed provide an overview of the possible implications arising from a change in the status of child-friendly children. This change was not neutral at all. To my knowledge, further consultations on this matter between the federal level and the federated entities have not yet taken place. As soon as these are resumed, I will not fail to inform you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic074x.u56	Minister, thank you for your answer. I come from the Social Affairs Committee, where the minister in charge of this department has announced that a meeting will take place on 30 January. So you'll be able to come back to the stage soon. Anyway, I hope so. Indeed, the government has committed itself to making this happen before the end of the legislature. If your government lasts five years, we may wait a long time. And if we don't set specific deadlines, given the difficulty of the file, we may not make much progress. Do you have any information that Minister Geens could not give us about the overall fiscal impact on tax revenues? If so, could you pass them on to us? Or has this work not been continued to the end? I would remind you that it is the tax administration that has been entrusted with making proposals on this matter. I would like you to look at this with your colleague from Employment to see what tax and/or social contributions measures could be taken to ensure that these workers have at least the same net income when they have a full social status.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic074x.u57	The figures have indeed been requested; they have not yet been received. But we'll insist on trying to get them.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic074x.u58	It has been more than a year since the request was made.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic074x.u59	But a new request had to be made to that effect.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic074x.u60	Minister, two years ago, the members of the Dexia Committee adopted the following recommendation: "The Committee recommends that there should be incompatibility between the director's mandate in a systemically relevant banking institution and a mandate of 1) representative of the people (federal, regional or European) 2) employee of a cabinet or strategic cell 3) former politician who has left active politics for less than one year 4) official from level A3'. Although the recommendation was not taken over literally in the Banking Act, the law requires credit institutions to ensure that there are no conflicts of interest with other functions of directors. On 23 January, the Flemish government appointed Mr Koen Algoed, head of the cabinet of Flemish minister Muyters, as director of KBC. He will remain in charge until KBC has repaid the State aid. This reminds a bit of the commotion surrounding the appointment of Wouter Devriendt as Belfius director and his links with Minister Vanackere's cabinet. What is the position on the appointment of the federal government? Is it contrary to the recommendation of the Dexia Committee or not? Do you think that the ECB will agree to this, or do we expect problems there too? Was the position of the National Bank requested on this matter?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic074x.u61	Mr President, Mr Minister, you were not in this Parliament, but you were an observer at the time of the Dexia crisis and the Dexia Committee. I played an active role with other colleagues. The committee's recommendation 36 is as follows: "The committee recommends that there should be an incompatibility between the mandate of the administrator of a systemic bank" what KBC seems to be, "and the status of a Member of Parliament, of a member of a cabinet or of a strategic cell, of a former political agent who has left the active policy for less than a year, of an official from the A3 level." Nevertheless, on 23 January the Flemish Government decided to appoint Mr Koen Algoed, Chief of Staff of Minister Muyters, as the administrator of KBC. This designation is contrary to recommendation 36, which I have just read, namely, the fact that the mandate of the administrator of a systemic bank is incompatible with a function in a ministerial office. You can tell me that not all of the Dexia recommendations, let alone those that have not been incorporated that we have proposed, have been translated into banking law. However, it is surprising and regrettable that a government chooses to sit on one of these recommendations, voted unanimously by this Parliament just three years ago. We forget fast, far too fast! Minister, what do you think of the appointment of Mr Algoed to the KBC's board of directors, in view of the recommendation of the Dexia Committee set out above? As Minister of Finance, will you take a proactive approach to the Flemish government in this regard? Can you tell me whether the National Bank was questioned about the appropriateness of this designation and whether it agreed with this designation? It is known that she has a notice to give as to the fit and proper character of the candidate directors. When and how will the banking law and its implementation be evaluated? Is it not necessary, in particular, to incorporate the principle of incompatibility between the mandate of administrator in a banking institution and that of collaborator in a ministerial cabinet as provided for in the conclusions and recommendations of the Dexia commission?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic074x.u62	The National Bank of Belgium was informed of the possible nomination of Mr Koen Algoed as non-executive director at KBC. On the basis of Article 60 of the Law of 25 April 2014 on the statute and supervision of credit institutions, the famous Banking Act, the appointment of directors to credit institutions is subject to the prior approval of the supervisor. To this end, the credit institution, in consultation with the candidate himself, should prepare a complete written file on the basis of which the appointment can be assessed by the supervisor. The assessment of what is then called a fit-and-clean file is also specified in a circular of the National Bank of 17 June 2013. The assessment of the appointment of directors is one of the tasks of the European Central Bank, the ECB, on the basis of the SPS Regulation I. The KBC Group has been directly supervised by the ECB since 4 November 2014. The term "supervisor' in Article 60 of the Banking Act should therefore be interpreted as meaning the ECB in this case. Once the question of approval of the appointment of Mr Koen Algoed is formalised in relation to the supervisor, it will therefore be the European Central Bank, and not the National Bank of Belgium, which takes the decision on this matter. The National Bank of Belgium, in close consultation with the relevant ECB staff, will prepare a proposal for a decision by the ECB's Supervisory Board and will present the Belgian legislation, resulting from the CRD IV and its guidelines, as set out in the circular of the National Bank of 23 June 2013, as a basis for decision. The ECB is obliged to apply Belgian legislation for this fit-and-propertry. Indeed, the ECB is obliged to apply the national legislation transposing the European Banking Directive 2, which I have just referred to, to Article 4 (3) of the SPS Regulation. The fit-and-cleaning requirements do indeed result from the CRD IV already mentioned. There is no explicit provision in the Banking Act that prevents cabinet members from becoming directors of a credit institution. The reviewer of a fit-and-clean file has a discretion for which the Banking Act creates the framework and the NBB circular elaborates a number of criteria to support the assessment. In this case, I do not believe that we can anticipate the discretionary assessment of jurisdiction, which, as argued, is ultimately the responsibility of the European Central Bank.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic074x.u63	Thank you, Minister, for your answer, but I beg your pardon, you have not answered my questions. I said myself that the ban was not included in the Banking Act. You repeat that. It is true, but there has been a recommendation from the Dexia Committee, which clearly stated that. I asked you whether the ECB is competent to do so. If the ECB agrees, we will indeed have to wait and see. I asked you if you knew the position of the National Bank and if you asked. You say that you do not know this and that it will issue an opinion in conjunction with the ECB. I think it would therefore be useful to know the views of the National Bank. What surprises me most, Minister, is that you say about a recommendation, which your party has also defended very strongly in the past, that it is no longer necessary, since it has not been incorporated into the law in so many words and therefore there is no problem. I also asked you for a political position from the government. You didn't answer that. You are simply saying that you will wait and see what the ECB says. I regret your very formalistic position. In fact, you say that you have supported the recommendation in the past, but that you no longer do so and now await the ECB's judgement. I take note of that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic074x.u64	Mr Minister, you explained to us what is in the law, but I was a Member of Parliament and Chairman of the Finance Committee when it was voted. I know this law relatively well; as it is thick, I may have forgotten some of its elements! For the time being, we are within the framework of the law, but we are certainly not in his mind. His principle was not to mix political action with the governance of a banking institution, which was one of Dexia's diseases. This was, at the time, very strongly raised by your colleagues at the N-VA, and in particular by Peter Dedecker not to name him. I do not understand why, on behalf of this work, the Flemish Government and Minister Muyters did not apply a prior filter, before the test of the National Bank and that of the European Central Bank, to reaffirm that a member of the cabinet or a director of the cabinet of a bank is not appointed. For me, this is a sign of a somewhat worrying normalization. [[It's like we've forgotten all the lessons of the banking crisis.]] We have always regretted that the lessons learned in amending the Act have not been learned. We have not sufficiently changed the framework, but the spirit of our work has not been respected. That's really disturbing. I hope that the European Central Bank and the National Bank will decide that the appointment of Mr Algoed was ultimately a misguided idea. I do not know him; it is in the name of his position in a firm that I find his designation as administrator of a systemic bank to be a bad idea.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic074x.u65	Mr President, Minister, according to information published in the daily De Standaard, the well-known insurer, Ethias, would find himself in a difficult financial situation. The insurer would have missed the European tests that were also carried out by insurance companies last year. According to this information, in the event of a major shock, the group would not have enough equity. A deficit of EUR 800 million is mentioned. The reasons for this situation would be both a tax fine of EUR 360 million and an increase in the provisions needed to deal with the low interest rate in terms of the interest promised to the insured. It was also the consequences of the Dexia crisis that weakened the Ethias insurer. Minister, do you confirm this information? What was the result of the stress tests for Ethias? Has a plan been developed to address these challenges? Does it have the approval of the National Bank? Is the Commission in favour of granting a deadline, as requested by Ethias? What measures are being taken by the Belgian financial authorities to avoid a new problem in this insurance company? Are other Belgian banking, financial or insurance institutions also affected by a negative assessment following the stress tests performed?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic074x.u66	Minister, Mr Gilkinet has already given an excellent introduction and asked excellent questions. The insurer Ethias had to be saved in 2008 with 1.5 billion euros of tax money. Now we hear that there would be problems with the last stress test, for example because of the tax fine of EUR 360 million and, of course, something that has been dragging on for a very long time, that First portfolio. Is it true that Ethias failed the stress test? What about the other insurance companies in the stress test? What are the necessary measures that should therefore be taken? Is a capital increase necessary? The CEO explained that Ethias is already strengthening the capital base. He would like to solve the problems internally. Do you consider such a stand alone solution realistic? Will the National Bank have to allow exceptions for Ethias? Or will there be no exceptions? What is the impact for the Belgian State on current losses, ongoing government loans and a possible participation in a capital increase? The biggest culprits for the problems are the losses on Dexia. They had to be transferred to Vitrufinholding, but above all they promised a guaranteed interest rate of 4.75% in those First contracts. When we speak today of an interest rate of 4.75% interest, at a time when we are sitting with 0 % interest and negative interest rates, that sounds insanely crazy. There are few other words for this. In the past, this interest could not be paid out of income from the portfolio either. Ivan Van de Cloot speaks of a Ponzi scheme, in which interest from the investment of new savers is paid. That's not really the cleanest way of working, to put it very softly. Is this true? Is that how people used to work there? How does this happen today? Of course, the first contracts are over. One can no longer step in there, unless at a rate of 0 %, but of course that makes little sense. To what extent is involvement in a Ponzi scheme in the past an element in the fit-and-proper test, the test for independence and robustness to be performed by drivers at system banks and system insurers? Did all the current drivers at Ethias take that fit-and-promper test? In its assessment of the State guarantee for ARCO, the European Commission decided: "The Belgian State should repeal the legislation underlying the cooperative guarantee scheme, in particular the Law of 14 April 2009 and the Royal Decree of 10 October 2011, and recover the benefit from Arcofin. The law to be repealed is at the same time the law which regulated the extension of the guarantee scheme to branches 21 life insurance, such as the First account. You know, that was the political compromise: ARCO in exchange for Ethias. What progress has been made in implementing the European Commission's decision and what are the implications for the guarantees in the First Account? Finally, do you see any possibility to terminate the First accounts and, of course, to give back people's investment? That seems obvious to me before the expiry of the contracts, namely 99 years or lifetime? I do not think we would like to be caught for so long with a compulsory interest rate of 4.75%. It cannot be explained that such interest is paid for a lifetime at the expense of the taxpayer. Is the removal of the guarantee, as required by the European Commission, a possible piste?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic074x.u67	Mr Minister, both honourable Members have already given the introduction, so I will not repeat it. I'll go straight to my questions. What are the consequences for Ethias for the recent European stress test? My fellow Members have also asked for this. Is there any clarity about the conditions the National Bank imposes on Ethias? What are the consequences for the government of this whole story? Does a transitional arrangement with the National Bank belong to the possibilities so that Ethias himself can strengthen its own assets? That's what the CEO proposed. If the government has to step in, is it possible to sell Ethias? Can you explain that? Finally, how do the other Belgian insurers come out of the stress test? Do you have eyes on that? Can we get that list, too?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic074x.u68	Colleagues, during the summer of 2014, EIOPA, the European Insurance Authority, organised a stress test in the vein of the bank stress test to test the vulnerabilities of the European insurance sector on the basis of a series of strict scenarios applied to the balance sheet of the institutions under investigation by 31 December 2013. The list of Belgian participants concerned Ageas, KBC Insurances, Ethias, AXA Belgium and Allianz Belgium. The focus of the stress test was on identifying the potential vulnerabilities of the sector and not on the possible pass-or-fail character of the exercise. This objective has been clearly emphasised on several occasions in the final report of EIOPA. Therefore, at the level of this EIOPA, it was decided to treat all the results of the stress test exercise confidentially and to report anonymously. The National Bank of Belgium has always respected these principles. Moreover, the National Bank of Belgium cannot provide information on individual undertakings under its supervision on grounds of professional secrecy, as provided for in Article 35 of the Law of 22 February 1998 laying down the organic statute of the National Bank. The stress test exercise consisted of two quantitative modules and tests, insurance-specific sensitivities, as well as market-related scenarios, focusing on the vulnerability to what is currently difficult to define other than a low interest rate environment. As far as Belgian companies are concerned, the following conclusions can be drawn. First, in terms of Solvency II, the larger insurance companies that participated in this test appear to be well prepared for this Solvency II. For example, all companies achieved the minimum solvency requirement specified in this stress test. Secondly, the stress test has shown that, as in the rest of Europe, there are vulnerabilities to the so-called double hit scenario. This is a scenario where both the value of the company's investment portfolio and the risk-free interest rate curve continue to fall sharply. However, the insurance technical sensitivities were not a problem for all Belgian participants in the test. The third conclusion is that the low interest rate environment remains a major challenge for the Belgian insurance sector, given the high guarantees offered on certain life insurance products. However, in relative terms, the Belgian companies have properly aligned their investment portfolios with their obligations. As from April 2015, insurance undertakings may submit a dossier to the supervisory authority for approval of the use of transitional measures. If an insurance undertaking obtains the approval of the National Bank of Belgium, these transitional measures will allow the undertaking to comply with the new rules over a period of 16 years. This approval will only be obtained if the company can demonstrate credible compliance with its obligations. Only in June 2015 will the insurance companies transfer the first real calculations according to the new solvency regime Solvency II to the National Bank of Belgium. These calculations will also be examined intensively by company auditors. Pending those first Solvency II results, the National Bank of Belgium will already take the necessary action where it deems it appropriate. These actions will primarily focus on the further preparation of the companies for the future Solvency II regime, which will, moreover, only start on 1 January 2016. The current economic reality must also be taken into account in this context. It goes without saying that the current low-interest environment is not easy for insurance companies. The high level of the maximum guaranteed rate in life insurance is a problem of which the National Bank of Belgium is more than aware and which weighs particularly on the situation of companies with a large old portfolio. Under the previous legislature, the Bank had proposed to reduce the permitted minimum rate but had not been followed. At present, Belgian insurers have all significantly reduced the guarantees given on new production. Finally, note that all managers of insurance undertakings are subject to an assessment of their fit and proper character, as provided for by the Law of 9 July 1975 on the supervision of insurance undertakings, Article 9a. The way in which the National Bank of Belgium carries out this assessment is explained in more detail in its circular. For example, in assessing the expertise of a future director, it will take into account the background of the person concerned, in particular where the person concerned had an influence on the policy of a supervised undertaking with financial problems leading to public intervention.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic074x.u69	Minister, in the name of confidentiality, you do not confirm what is called a "polichinelle secret", namely that Ethias is in trouble. The question is who did not respect his duty of confidentiality and it is normal for parliamentarians to ask questions about this, when we know the systemic importance of this group of insurances that has a particular identity. Like other banking or insurance institutions, Ethias has long had directors appointed by political parties and has public capital. So we can only hope that the announced disaster will not happen, that we will not have to face new problems in the financial sector and that the National Bank has actually taken the necessary steps. I confirm our concern for this institution and others. The overall context of interest rates does not help to meet its commitments, but I hope that the situation is under control.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic074x.u70	Thank you, Minister, for your detailed explanation of the system. I had asked for the implementation of the European Commission's decision on the state guarantee. Is there anything known about that? No? If no claim has been made, I assume this will still be done. You say that all insurance companies are well aligned with the mandatory returns they have to provide. It seems to me very chaotic that one is still able to achieve a return of 4.75% on a particular portfolio. I am very curious to see how that happens, but I assume that this will be covered by the professional secrecy of the insurer concerned. There is also an impact on the State anyway, because of the guarantees and loans we still have with a number of financial institutions. In the past, we had in the Chamber the Special Follow-up Committee on Financial Crisis, in which we were periodically given an overview of what the Belgian State still had to do with loans and guarantees. It may not be a bad idea to get such a state of affairs periodically. I would like to present this proposal to my fellow Members from this committee. For me, there should be no separate committee, but it would not be bad to get a regular status of guarantees and outstanding loans.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic074x.u71	I think the Minister was quite complete in his reply, as far as he could say a number of things and others not for the sake of confidentiality. I would like to support Mr Dedecker's question. That is also a question for the President to organise periodically, in consultation with the Minister. We should not have a separate committee for this anymore, which can also be done here in the Finance Committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic074x.u72	The minister proposed a debriefing for February 10. Your questions are mainly about Greece. That is why I suggest that you focus on this point. The other aspects of the Eurogroup will be dealt with on 10 February.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic074x.u73	Mr President, I fully agree with you. You will agree that political developments are particularly interesting. The Greek elections gave rise to a completely explicit democratic outcome, in any case with regard to the question of the debt. In addition, the Eurogroup meeting on this issue took place on Monday. Mr Minister, it seems that Greece was represented by the outgoing Finance Minister, even though the new government was very quickly put in place. It is clear that the outcome of the Greek election, which saw the victory of a party which strongly challenged the debt, must lead to a questioning of European policies with regard to Greece, but also to other countries in difficulty. Mr Minister, was the case of Greece discussed at the Eurogroup meeting? What measures are envisaged by the Eurogroup as a result of these elections? Is the Eurogroup ready to listen to the new Greek majority and its own reform proposals? I have heard that there is no question of getting out of the euro and that there is a willingness to undertake tax reforms aimed at certain social categories that have been privileged so far. Reference was also made to a rescheduling of Greek debt. Has this request been addressed? Is the Eurogroup ready to question the current timetable and modalities for paying off Greek debt in the light of the social need to loosen the budget and the tax reforms to be undertaken by the new majority in order to better allocate the effort?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic074x.u74	Mr President, I shall be much more brief. I suspect that the subject was discussed at the Eurogroup meeting. Can you tell us what has emerged and what has been the position taken by Belgium? Apart from Greece, you spoke of a meeting that could be organised on the implementation of the Financial Transaction Tax (FTT). Has it ever taken place? We'll have an opportunity to hear from you during the debriefing.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic074x.u75	Colleagues, as far as the TTF is concerned, we had a meeting at which two elements were identified. Austria will chair the negotiating committee, because there was a lack of a solid structure to make progress. On the other hand, we have felt – I have some reluctance to say it too loudly – a degree of flexibility at the French and German levels in their position on derivatives. As I have already explained to you, France vetoed equities derivatives. The same was true for Germany with respect to bond derivatives. I saw very well a nascent flexibility in their leadership. This has not produced any concrete results, but it is so! We will see at the next meeting of the TTF Group. Again and again, we are, alas, only 11 countries. Greece was on the calendar. On Monday afternoon, the meeting was shortened; the Tsipras government was being formed. We talked very briefly, not even half an hour. First, we congratulated the winners of the election. Secondly, with regard to the relationship between Greece and the euro area, two principles were put on the table by Mr Dijsselbloem, President of the meeting. According to the first principle, Greece must respect its commitments. According to the second principle, the group expects a first move from the new Greek government. That is the situation to date. We will probably have proposals and requests from Greece. From that moment on, we will begin the discussion.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic074x.u76	Minister, as far as the FTT is concerned, we will see if things move a little and that would be so much better. As far as Greece is concerned, all this is very new for the Eurogroup and for us. It seems to me that this is a strong democratic signal, a democratic fact to be respected. Let us wait for what will be put on the table by the Greek authorities. As a representative of Belgium in the Eurogroup, I can only encourage you to listen to this and to give a chance to another form of solving this problem encountered by various States, including Greece with more intensity. It could be a fairer, more efficient tax system that tries to avoid social break-up and desperation among citizens in order to build a real consensus, a more balanced whole. I do not know what the next deadlines will be, but we will certainly have an opportunity to discuss them. This is a signal which the members of the Eurogroup will have to take into account, in one way or another, without pleading for inconsiderate budgetary acts. Moreover, according to the first statements I was able to read, I do not believe that this is the intention of the new leaders of Greece.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic074x.u77	Minister, thank you for your answers. Indeed, on the subject of TTF, a small flexibility appears and gives rise to our hope; we never know! As far as Greece is concerned, I agree with Mr Gilkinet's comments. We'll wait for requests from the power in place. I hope you listen carefully and we can find solutions with them.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic074x.u78	Mrs Van Cauter, I suggest that you answer your questions. 1749 and 1756 in written questions, because they contain a lot of statistical data.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic074x.u79	Mr President, if the Minister does not object, I would like to have an oral answer to my questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic074x.u80	It's more efficient to do it in writing. I'll give you the answers now.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic074x.u81	I put question No. 1749 and 1756 in a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic074x.u82	Questions Nos 1749 and 1756 by Mrs Van Cauter will be converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic074x.u83	As a result of the adjustment of Article 444 of the Income Tax Code, the digitised impact of the tax increases applied will be much greater from the 2013 tax year onwards. The tax increases will now be calculated on the amount of the tax to offset, for example, precharges and advance payments. This sometimes leads to modal families who, even in certain cases, would have to receive a few hundred euros back through their personal tax attack, now face several thousands of euros in tax increases below the administrative penalty. Sometimes there is an increase of 200 %, which pushes some people into a debt spiral, even when there are mitigating circumstances. The application of Article 9 of the Regent Decision may in certain cases bring relief. As is well known, on the one hand, the consequences of the judgment of the Council of State of 23 September 2005 and the resulting obligation to state reasons delay the examination of these requests by the administration and, on the other hand, the parliamentary committee of inquiry on tax fraud, of which I was a member, made a recommendation to amend the procedure. As a result, your predecessor put forward a proposal for a procedure to conduct this power to waive tax increases and tax penalties to the College of Tax Mediation. Do you also have this intention, given the comments outlined? Are you also convinced that the autonomous tax mediation service has a role to play and that this can guarantee an independent, neutral and thus comprehensive approach? Do you intend to do so soon, partly in the context of the current socio-economic climate?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic074x.u84	The Regent Decree of 18 March 1831 gives the Minister of Finance the right to grant grace for tax increases and administrative fines. At the moment, the research is being carried out by the local regional management who submits their advice on direct taxation to the Minister of Finance. On the basis of this investigation, a collective ministerial decision is taken. With regard to VAT, one of my predecessors delegated the full power to the regional boards. This leads to a difference in treatment between the different managements and regions. The parliamentary inquiry into the major tax fraud and also the Court of Auditors have already made comments on this in the past. I share my predecessor's concern to ensure an independent and more neutral approach to this grace in the future. In addition, I would like to ask whether it is still possible to defend in 2015 that such graces should be the individual prerogatives of the Minister of Finance. I will examine further the proposal to transfer this power or not to the mediation service and will, of course, keep you informed of the outcome of this. As regards the consequences of the Council of State judgment on the obligation to state reasons, I can inform you that the administration has drawn up new documents in accordance with the judgment of the Council of State. In the coming months, therefore, the stock of rejections or partial rejections will be eliminated.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic074x.u85	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply and for sharing the same concern, namely equal treatment for people in the same situation. I note that you will continue to carry out the objectification of the procedure and I am sure you will hear more about it later.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic074x.u86	Minister, the possibility of organising autonomously and on its own responsibility the recovery and prosecution of the tax and, in this respect, the granting of payment facilities is exclusive to the recipient of direct taxes and/or VAT. There are regular signals to me that recipients of the amounts of VAT due would be very strict recently. That's what I'm told. It is assumed that, if the funds are available, they will have to be paid immediately. I have some understanding for this, but one does not seem to distinguish between the VAT actually collected and the VAT invoiced, which the entrepreneur may still have to recover from the client. In certain sectors, suppliers themselves have serious difficulties in obtaining their invoices, which include the VAT due, while the administration assumes that VAT not collected from customers should be passed on to the tax authorities. So they allow very difficult facilities. Some recipients would refuse, as I am told, to allow facilities, while there is a problem with those who have to collect and pass on VAT. Certain sectors, including the catering sector, would have to deal with this problem. Mr Minister, I have the following questions. Firstly, can you confirm to me that, in particular cases and subject to a specific payment proposal, the recipients may still allow payment arrangements, even if the VAT collected theoretically is concerned? Secondly, can recipients take into account the current social and economic environment, irrespective of the sector in which the taxpayer operates? Have more stringent directives been drawn up by yourself or by your administration? Are you prepared to point out to your administration that in distressing cases the postponement of payment should be given a fair opportunity to arrive at cost-saving recovery?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic074x.u87	Mr President, Mrs Van Cauter, taxpayers who prove that they are in a position to comply with their VAT obligations within the legal time limit due to special circumstances can always request a postponement of payment. To that end, it is sufficient that they make a reasoned request to the competent recipient. However, obtaining a payment scheme is not a right for the taxable person. It remains a favour granted by the recipient only in exceptional circumstances. The recipient shall examine each demand for payment facilities individually, taking into account all the factual circumstances of the file, such as the age and size of the debt, the financial capacity and solvency of the debtor, the security, if any, held and so on. Specifically, I can answer your question on possibly more stringent directives with a very firm answer. Neither myself nor the administration have issued stricter directives on the granting of such payment facilities.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic074x.u88	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply. I'll reconnect. Perhaps regional rigour is also being shown here. I don't know. I'll listen again.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic074x.u89	We now come to the question No. 1756 by Mrs Van Cauter on the objection by e-mail and fax. I have just said that since it is about legal certainty and there is discussion it might be better to give a written answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic074x.u90	I have a written reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic074x.u91	Perhaps it would be better if it were given in writing, then it would also be printed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic074x.u92	I accept that. I had asked the question orally in order to possibly replicate it, but if it is in line with what Cassatie says it will not be necessary. Should I come back to that in a later question?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic074x.u93	You can come back to that later. I see the question here now and I note that there is a lot of discussion. Certain authors are distracted from this. Since it appears that the administration has a different view, a written reply is nevertheless clearer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic074x.u94	Mr President, I should like to put my question to the President-in-Office. If I want to put 1756 orally, I have a reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic074x.u95	It is either a written question or an oral question. If you ask the question orally, the Minister must read out his written reply, otherwise there will be no trace in the Minutes. The reports only indicate what is said orally, and I did not know that all of this is so strict.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic074x.u96	Mr President, Minister, by judgment of 5 June 2014, the Court of Cassation stated that a statement of opposition to direct taxation should no longer be originally signed by the objecting taxable person or his representative. This makes the administrative statement that an unsigned retention document is not valid, as stated in the comments on the Income Tax Code 1992 in numbers 366/28 and 375/16. In the future, contradicted. However, it appears that this comment has not yet been amended. Certain authors conclude from this that, by analogy with the notice of reply to a notice of amendment and the usual practice at the Registry for the lodging of claims, an appeal concerning direct taxation in application of Article 366 of the Income Tax Code could now be lodged by fax or e-mail until the last useful day, without original or electronic signature. It would be sufficient, according to the Court of Cassation, at the time when it decides on the admissibility of the statement of objection that it is established to the administration that it is based on the applicant. Mr President, can you confirm, in an era of electronic exchange, that the procedure for submitting an objection should be sufficient? Can you confirm, in the light of the legal certainty of taxpayers, that those electronic means of filing without original signature are accepted as valid by the administration and thus by decisive regional directors of direct taxes or officials delegated by them? Where appropriate, should the taxable persons concerned or their representatives subsequently, for example, submit their original signature at any stage of the procedure?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic074x.u97	Ms Van Cauter, the administration subscribes to the judgment of the Court of Cassation of 5 June 2014. The current comment on Article 371 of the WIB 92 states that: "In order to be valid, the statement of objection which the person liable for tax may lodge with the director of the taxes must not necessarily be signed, provided that the statement of objection shows that there is certainty that the objection is lodged by the person liable for tax.' The judgment of the Court of Cassation is therefore clear and will be complied with by the administration. Of course, for reasons of legal certainty, it is advisable to give the written statement of objection an authentic character, with the signature of the person liable or his agent. As regards the submission of objections to a tax director by e-mail or fax, work is being carried out on a method which provides sufficient legal certainty for both the tax payer and the administration.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic074x.u98	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I note that the administration makes the judgment its own, which is very good, and that the comments have been modified in that sense, but what I do not understand is the following. If it is not necessary for an objection to be admissible to bear an original signature, why do we still need to work on a method by fax or e-mail? Then it should be possible, shouldn't it? What else needs to change to make sure it can be done that way?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic074x.u99	This is precisely the subject of what is being looked at, in particular how we can still have sufficient or minimum legal certainty as to authenticity.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic074x.u100	In order to have no further discussion about whether the document comes from the objector?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic074x.u101	You also know the sometimes inscrutable ways of e-mail traffic.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic074x.u102	I got it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic074x.u103	Mr Minister, the creation of the tax mediation service within the FPS Finance Office should counter the growing influx of judicial tax disputes and lead to faster collection of tax debts. Moreover, the creation of this tax mediation service is in line with the ever-increasing complexity of tax legislation. In most cases, this service is given a fair chance to mediate effectively, both on the levy and on the recovery of the various taxes. From analysis of the data from the annual reports of this service, I note that there is a success rate of more than 80% for some subjects. In all these cases, therefore, the taxpayer should not go to court to find an adequate solution to his dispute. I also read in the 2013 annual report that some officials are even encouraging taxpayers to ask for the intervention of this service. I can only welcome that. However, some tax lawyers give me signals that it is unfortunately different in some cases. In certain cases it would be the case that, if one still feels that one would like to appeal to tax mediation, the administration suddenly takes a decision on the objection, which of course cannot be the intention. This is, of course, contrary to the legislator's intention to introduce tax mediation and it does not seem to be in line with the principles of good governance. Do you share my view that tax mediation should be given a fair chance in all the cases envisaged by the law? Therefore, can you recommend to your administration that it reminds its officials in a general manner that, by announcing the intention to start tax mediation by the taxpayer, it will still allow this last opportunity to be used and, to the extent possible, postpone their decision until the time limit provided for in Articles 1385, 11° of the Code of Civil Procedure.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic074x.u104	I share your opinion. Indeed, the tax mediation service should be given maximum opportunity to reach a negotiated solution, regardless of whether the mediation is announced in the context of the disputes concerning the levying or the recovery of taxes. The situation in which an official would cut off the possibility of tax mediation by taking his decision quickly, while the taxpayer or his representative announced the desire for mediation and the rights of the Treasury were not immediately at risk, is obviously contrary to the legislator's intention in introducing fiscal mediation. I will therefore ask my administration to pay due attention to this and to recall this principle.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic074x.u105	Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister for the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic074x.u106	This is a question I asked in plenary last week and we know the answer to it. However, I would not like to comment on the political assessment of the question. However, I still had a technical question. The bond purchases are about 80% made by the various national banks. The European Central Bank is financed according to the so-called capital key, with Belgium accounting for about 2.47 % of ECB capital and thus for the ECB's account for 2.4 % of total bond purchases. That would mean EUR 1.5 billion per month for Belgium. I have two small questions on that matter. Firstly, it seems that it is not about monetary financing. Therefore, debt issued is not allowed to be purchased directly on the primary market. It's about the secondary market. The general principle prevents Member States from eating their national cash by putting extra money into circulation. It is important to respect that principle. Only bonds are purchased on the secondary market. Secondly, there is no loss sharing. If losses occur due to the bankruptcy of one of the publishers, those losses are not shared by the ECB members. In concrete terms, this means that no bonds from the Greek Central Bank are bought up in the context of the QE. Is it true, Minister, that the various national central banks...? For us, this would be mainly about Belgian OLOS and possibly in second order about Dutch or Danish government papers. I am simply asking the question so that we here in Parliament too can find a lead. It's a very important decision. Mr Gilkinet has a more general political question. However, I would like us to know exactly what this will mean for the various national banks and what our share in the issue will be, also because there is a misunderstanding about both monetary financing and loss sharing. Mr Gilkinet probably has a more general question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic074x.u107	Mr President, I have a question which may require a specific meeting of our committee with the representative of the National Bank to try to measure all the contours of the decision, and, if I have understood correctly, to explore the margins of negotiation which remain around this decision of principle last Thursday. We are gradually discovering the contours and limits of this massive asset buyback plan, including state bonds, which will be conducted in principle from next March until September 2016. We said in plenary that we were rather positive about the idea of the European Central Bank doing something. It's not about "waiting for it to pass," as we read, but I'm not going to revive Thursday's controversy. The ECB must try to find solutions to the weak economic climate. But the more we examine the plan as it exists, the more we wonder about its characteristics. The fact that private banks remain the necessary step towards the redemption of State bonds, that the limitation of a State's ability to redeem is linked to the relative weight of that State in the European Central Bank, which calls into question a principle of solidarity, the absence of real inter-State solidarity or the absence of other measures to deepen monetary union in social and fiscal terms, to stimulate demand, in particular linked to the resources and incomes of economic operators and citizens, raises questions. I have another question about the fact that corporate loans do not work particularly well in the current economic climate. Trust must also be restored. It therefore seems that margins of adjustment are still possible in relation to this plan, and it is mainly on this point that I would like to ask you. Can you give me your opinion on the plan presented by the European Central Bank, since on Thursday there was a discussion of principle? Since then, the decision has been taken. What was the position taken by the representative of Belgium in the context of this decision of the European Central Bank? On the basis of the margins of adjustment, will Belgium, as a result of the discussions, advocate further measures to improve the initial proposal of the European Central Bank, in particular as regards solidarity between States, the deepening of the Economic Union, the improvement of the resources of consumers and economic actors, the targeting of investments towards the economy of the future? This last point is important to us ecologists: to have a true vision of the economy of the future. What are the next steps in the ECB's decision-making mechanism for implementing this quantitative easing operation, on the understanding that it may be discussed in a broader framework here in the committee?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic074x.u108	I would suggest that a more exhaustive discussion on all aspects be carried out rather quickly. In fact, in the 20% section there are a few things which, I will say neutrally, require further clarification. I asked the National Bank. I propose that we discuss more exhaustively a number of specific features of this programme. For that 80% I understand it as well as you do: Belgium, the Netherlands and Denmark. However, before making any clear or firm statements on this matter in this committee, I would first like to be absolutely certain that it is. I asked the National Bank. I'll probably get that soon. I will not hesitate to share these answers with the committee so that the various aspects, including the aspect of the risk to the Belgian Treasury, are clear about where we are. For the rest, Mr Gilkinet, during the ECOFIN meetings which took place yesterday and the day before yesterday, Mr Draghi stressed that quantitative easing itself would not bring much results. Additional measures are needed – economic restructuring, consolidation of public finances, etc. – to create a positive situation on this level. It has been clear about this, and we have taken good note of his remarks. This gives you an idea of the context in which this decision was made. We will see the results in the coming months.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic074x.u109	Minister, we have the debriefing of the Ecofin Council on 11 February at 14:00. As a second item on that afternoon's agenda, I would like to put the consequences of the European Central Bank's procurement policy and the concrete content of what has been decided. I don't know how we put it best. I propose an exchange of views on the ECB's purchasing programme and its practical implementation for Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic074x.u110	If I may, it was the Governor of the National Bank who represented Belgium in these discussions. It would therefore be interesting for a representative of the National Bank to come and present the elements and have an exchange of ideas on the subject. Even the minister says he has questions about the scope and modalities of quantitative easing.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic074x.u111	I think I understand their decisions, but I would like to be sure.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic074x.u112	We can ask Mr Coene I do not know if he will be available or someone from the National Bank and the Minister, each of whom, from their competence, will explain the ECB's purchasing programme and its technical implementation by Belgium and its economic consequences. The intention is to have an exchange of views on the ECB's purchase programme, with introduction by the Governor and the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic074x.u113	Mr President, we certainly need to check the availability of the governor, because the meetings of the ECB will always take place on Thursday.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic074x.u114	It's about Wednesday.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic074x.u115	As far as I know, he always leaves on Wednesdays for a number of preparatory meetings. However, these meetings do not take place every week, but every two or three weeks. If you'll allow me, I'll go to the governor's office and see what his schedule looks like, and I'll be back tomorrow in the course of the day.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic074x.u116	We have the whole Tuesday and Wednesday. If you tell us which time fits best, we'll schedule it at that time.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic074x.u117	Wednesday morning, too?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic074x.u118	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic074x.u119	All right, I'll get back to you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic074x.u120	After all, it is important that we discuss the plan in Parliament. It concerns one of the most important decisions of the following years in relation to monetary and economic policy. We must look at this in substance, outside the framework of the oral questions, so that Parliament knows the consequences and the technical implementation of them.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic074x.u121	Mr President, I am pleased that we have this working time because it seems to me necessary. I am concerned that even the minister does not control the entire contours, or rather still has doubts... I agree with the idea that this will not be enough and that something else is needed. Maybe we won't agree on the other thing. My conviction is that there is a problem in terms of demand, consumer confidence and purchasing power. The Union must be deepened in social and fiscal terms. One cannot find answers only by pressing lemon over and over again, which is the majority option at European level.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic074x.u122	Mr Gilkinet, you still have a whole series of questions. I don't know if you'd like them all to be dealt with orally here. I suggest that you ask the questions to which you would like an oral answer in the short term. I'd suggest you turn the rest of it into written questions, but that's your decision.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic074x.u123	Mr President, I propose that five questions be brought together in order to speed up our work.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic074x.u124	I have all the answers with me.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic074x.u125	Mr Minister, Belfius decided to put an end, on 28 February, to the activities of his agency of Olloy-sur-Viroin, in the Namurian municipality of Viroinval. This closure will have a significant impact on the daily lives of citizens and will undoubtedly have harmful consequences for the economy in this rural entity, where tourism is important. Individuals receiving assistance from the CPAS could be particularly affected. In fact, when the latter grants urgent aid, the beneficiary sometimes receives a card which allows him to withdraw the amount granted to the Belfius agency, This operation can only be carried out with an agency of the Belfius network, a group with which the Federation of CPAS has concluded an agreement, the beneficiary would be obliged to make the move, necessarily more costly in time and money, to another municipality. I read that the municipal authorities of Viroinval had proposed to Belfius an alternative solution, consisting of the possible installation of an automaton on a communal building. The case of Olloy-sur-Viroin raises the question of the willingness of the Belgian State's 100%-owned bank, Belfius, to maintain a local service, particularly in the rural communes. Minister, can you tell me what Belfius' short- and medium-term strategy is with regard to its network of agencies? Can we expect new agency deletions? If so, which agencies would be closed? Is this removal of agencies compatible with Belfius' desire to strengthen its partnerships with local authorities, and more particularly in its collaborations with CPAS? Is it not appropriate to require Belfius to maintain an agency or even at least one automaton in each municipality of the kingdom as part of a form of universal service? Can a solution be found to maintain an automaton of the Belfius bank in Viroinval, if necessary, in collaboration with the municipal authorities?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic074x.u126	Mr President, Mr Gilkinet, Belfius has a strong network-based strategy. Belfius effectively covers Belgian territory with a network of more than 700 agencies. To my knowledge, there is no concrete plan to reduce the number of agencies. But Belfius management continuously optimizes its network. Belfius has to be managed like a commercial bank. Each investment decision of an automata or not is therefore logically based on an analysis of costs and revenues. This analysis was also done for the Viroinval automaton you mentioned. This analysis and its conclusion will be communicated to the municipal authorities.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic074x.u127	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, your answer is somewhat minimal. I interviewed your predecessors. It is not for the honourable Member that I am verifying any management act or strategic choice of Belfius, even if it is a public bank. However, the public authority holding the bank must define a comprehensive framework. The question of a minimum universal service, a presence in rural areas, attention to solutions that can be found in cooperation with local authorities at a minimum to maintain a socially and economically important automaton should be asked. I therefore hope that, beyond the minimalist response you have given me, as well as the direction of Belfius, you have heard my message and that a solution can be found not only in this specific case, but also more broadly with a view to a just territorial approach.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic074x.u128	If I may comment on that, we have had many years of discussion here about the mail rooms and the stations, every time a post office closed or a station was no longer operational. I believe that we must respect the autonomy of Belfius with regard to services and establishments. Questions are open, but if we go on that tour... it's not because it's a public company that it shouldn't be efficient and that it shouldn't be run according to a number of rational criteria. I find it strange, even from your point of view. You mean well with the public sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic074x.u129	I will try to explain myself even more clearly, because I would not want to be misunderstood. My intention is not to raise the whole of Belfius's agency closures and each time to ask a question here in the Finance Committee. Our view of the Belfius file, since it is a public bank of 100 %, is that the federal authority that holds the bank must give guidelines in relation to what Belfius becomes; and then leave it to management to carry it out on a daily basis. Among these guidelines, beyond a reasonable remuneration policy, risks must be avoided, the real economy must be financed, etc. It seems to me that the question of a certain form of universal service, of a presence, including in rural areas, of cooperation with local authorities when they ask for it for obvious social reasons, should be respected, since it is a 100 % public bank. That is what I wanted to highlight by my question, even if it actually concerns a municipality in my province. I regret that, as well as his predecessors, the minister is not careful to define a framework that also has broad public service values. I agree with you: Belfius must be well managed and cost-effectively, but I think there is also room for the issue of universality of service rendered.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic074x.u130	Mr Gilkinet, you said that all questions relating to the Belgian Government's letter to the Commission on the implementation of the budget could be turned into written questions. I think you can put them together.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic074x.u131	All right.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic074x.u132	Mr President, Minister, it appears from a study by the Union des Classes Moyennes (UCM) of 1,280 Walloon and Brussels entrepreneurs that more than 80% of them consider that access to bank credit is more difficult, if not more difficult than five years ago. Only 40 per cent of these officials consider that they did not have access to credit without difficulty during the same period. As worrying as they are, these figures reflect the testimonies of the SME managers I had the opportunity to meet. The provision of sufficient funds is a major challenge for the recovery of our economy and employment. With EUR 240 billion on deposit books, funding sources exist. It is now both a question of putting an end to the excessive chill of banking institutions and of setting up, in collaboration with the federated entities, incentives for citizens to invest in the real economy. Minister, can you tell me whether your services have also looked at the issue of financing businesses, particularly SMEs? Do you confirm the serious difficulties identified by the UCM? What steps will be taken by the government to address this issue? How long? What initiatives will be taken with regard to the banking sector, in particular banks wholly or partially owned by the Belgian State, to increase their role in financing the economy?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic074x.u133	Mr Gilkinet, in the course of the financial crisis, we had a problem with financing SMEs. The fall in interest rates has already helped a lot in this respect. Beyond the cost of external financing, the improvement of the financing environment for SMEs has also been reflected in non-monetary conditions. For example, the four large resident banks reported that in 2014 they had eased their criteria for granting credit to businesses. They were motivated by lower financing costs and balance sheet constraints and increased competitive pressure. In particular, SMEs were able to benefit from an increase in the duration of loans. Business leaders also indicated that they were making a favourable assessment of the conditions for access to new bank loans in 2014, for the first time since the second quarter of 2011. This is also confirmed by the SAFE survey in which the Belgian SMEs surveyed also reported a relaxation of access to bank credit during the period from April to October 2014 for the first time since the start of the investigation in 2009. Despite this substantial improvement in the financing environment, the pace of growth in the provision of bank loans to non-financial companies remained particularly low in 2014, highlighting the importance of demand agonizing. As for what the government wants or can do, an improvement in the general situation and the economic climate can support confidence. It is also a question of following, among other things, the measures taken by Mrs Laruelle during the previous legislature with regard to the explanation of refusal of credit. These elements can certainly positively influence SME financing.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic074x.u134	Minister, there is a disagreement on the principle of'substantial beautification'. Some of the investigations say there's a nicer one. The findings of the Union des Classes Moyennes, which is particularly well established at the local level in the Walloon Region and Brussels, are different. Regularly, I receive testimony from entrepreneurs who tell me their difficulties in obtaining funding. On the other hand, there is a new phenomenon that you have described as a lack of demand, the fact that there is no great confidence on the part of entrepreneurs or individuals to launch. I believe that this is due to the overall economic context and also, in part, to the austerity measures that have been taken at various levels. This is a problem that we are not going to solve here and now but to which the public authorities, this Parliament and the government must pay particular attention. The ECB's measure aims to refinance states in relation to their sovereign debt, but what matters is that economic actors and citizens can invest and turn the economy in the right direction, which is not exactly the case today.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic074x.u135	We have to be aware that we are asking for things that are somewhat contradictory to financial institutions. On the one hand, they are asked to limit their risks, because we experienced the 2008 crisis and we know the problems that happen when banks take too many risks. On the other hand, the real economy has financial needs. A balance must be struck between these two demands, which evolve over time. Before 2008, we were probably too flexible. Today, we are probably a little too strict. This is not an explanation, but a reflection on the current situation in terms of the provision of credit at the level of SMEs.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic074x.u136	The difficulties of banking institutions have not arisen as a result of the loans they have granted to the real economy. On the contrary, they are elements of stability for them. The problems have come from unconsidered investments at the international level or in pure finance and speculative products. What shockes us from the beginning is that it was the actors in the real economy, the citizens, who had to finance the aid to the banks. And it is these economic actors on the ground that are paying the mark today. It's totally abnormal. I believe that, in order to strengthen their model, banks should return even more to contact with the real economy and local entrepreneurs in order to diversify risk and re-establish their historical business of collecting savings and lending to entrepreneurs and citizens. The temptation to earn a lot of money on the financial markets remains there. The problem is, when you earn a lot, you can lose a lot more than a few months later. This lesson has not been perfectly accepted.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic074x.u137	Questions No 1683, No 1684, No 1685, No 1688, No 1689 of Mr Georges Gilkinet are transformed into written questions. Question No 1690 by Georges Gilkinet will be addressed to Minister Hervé Jamar.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic074x.u138	Mr President, Mr Minister, in the exercise of its powers, the Federal State appeals, in a number of proceedings, to the exercise of the benefits of judicial officers. This is particularly the case with respect to the collection of federal taxes and taxes or criminal fines. Since 2013, the services of the bailiffs are subject to VAT and the latter is passed on to the debtors. As a result, some people, whose precarious situation explains that they have not been able to honour certain bills, taxes or fines, have to bear an additional financial burden. Minister, the impact of the application of VAT on bailiffs' services for justiciable taxpayers has been assessed. Has it been estimated on the basis of the income of the taxpayers concerned, per decile? What is the result of this evaluation? Are there any arrangements or are there any plans to prevent these people from becoming more vulnerable, for example by ensuring that VAT is not passed on in full to the taxpayers concerned? What is the Belgian State's gain from the application of VAT to the services of bailiffs in 2012, 2013 and 2014?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic074x.u139	Mr Gilkinet, the exemption from VAT on the services of judicial officers was repealed with effect from 1 January 2012. Their benefits are therefore subject to VAT as in the other Member States of the European Union. However, no VAT is payable on a series of fees which the bailiffs refactor and which are considered disbursements. These include role rights, mortgages, registration of protests and pleading stamps. The application of VAT cannot be adjusted according to the income of the people who support it. As a result, no specific provision has been made to reduce the impact of the measure. Finally, the budgetary impact was positive for the state. The amounts are as follows: €31.2 million for 2012, €31.7 million for 2013 and €31.9 million for 2014.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic074x.u140	Minister, thank you. I fear that these revenues will be borne mainly by people who are already in financial difficulty. That is why we have challenged this measure, even if it is in the direction of European harmonisation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic074x.u141	Mr President, Mr Minister, in the exercise of its powers, the Federal State appeals, in a number of proceedings, to the exercise of the benefits of judicial officers. This is particularly the case with respect to the collection of federal taxes and taxes or criminal fines. As such, the bailiffs act as public officers and they see their prerogatives defined and organized by law. In this way, private persons carry out in a certain way the actual tasks of public service. I would like your clarification on how the bailiffs are currently designated by the federal authority and on possible improvements to this system in order to make it clearer and more equitable. Flanders and Wallonia have each chosen to open these markets in their own way. The first set up the so-called VLABEL system, which is a platform combining all the Flemish bailiffs who share the "recovery market" in Flanders. This system raises some questions about compliance with public procurement legislation. Wallonia, for its part, has decided to launch public procurement. Minister, how does the federal state designate the judicial officers responsible for recovering taxes, taxes and other criminal fines that are not honoured by the taxpayers and justiciable? What is the annual cost of judicial officers to the federal state? If you are considering opening these services to competition, how will you do so? Through public procurement or through a distribution formula among all interested bailiffs?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic074x.u142	Mr Gilkinet, the bailiffs are selected by my department from among the bailiffs who signed the collaboration protocols of 19 May 2000 and 8 June 2004 respectively. The proposal for the appointment of a new judicial officer may come from the recipient, the collection inspector or the regional director concerned. Upon review, the proposal will always be submitted for approval to the deputy head of the administration concerned. When it aims at the appointment of a complementary judicial officer, the proposal will be accompanied by a report setting out the powers of each judicial officer acting for this office. The report shall contain a comparative study, drawn up on an annual basis starting from objective and verifiable elements demonstrating the imperative and lasting nature of the reinforcement requested. For 2014, EUR 58 million was paid as a prosecution fee for direct contributions and VAT. The costs of bailiffs are included in these costs, but also some other costs of prosecution that have not been paid to bailiffs. Of this amount, EUR 54 million was recovered from debtors. The amounts of the costs not recovered from the debtors for the year 2014, charged to the budget of my Heritage Department, were estimated at €2 million. This estimate includes the amount of non-tax recovery costs, including criminal fines that were previously part of this general administration. There are no separate estimated figures for criminal fines. Currently, the question of opening the services of bailiff to competition is under consideration in the framework of the development of a new protocol of collaboration between my administration and the Chamber of judicial officers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic074x.u143	Minister, thank you for these figures. If I have heard you correctly, the cost of resorting to bailiffs is higher than the sums recovered, which should be an issue for you. Higher by 4 million euros! I think there is a matter for reform. The way in which we designate the bailiffs today seems to me not to be objective and problematic in the sense of fairness with regard to all bailiffs. The question is under consideration, you say. I can only encourage you to study how this is going in the Walloon Region and the Flemish Region and try to decide on how to designate the bailiffs, which is more efficient than today. There is scope for progress in terms of governance on the subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic074x.u144	Thank you for being here. There's no meeting next week. Tuesday and Wednesday we are in the European Parliament for the European Semester. The next week's agenda will be settled later.
