ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u2	[[for the standing meeting]] The President [[in front of the assembly standing]] Colleagues, There are times when politics stops, when what we are dealing with with with so much strength and conviction seems somewhat secondary to the current situation in its cruel drought. The year 2015 that ends leaves us a world bruised by blind violence and fanaticism. Unfortunately, we have witnessed a real overbidding in terror. In agreement with the Prime Minister, we therefore wished to pay a national tribute to the eight Belgians who lost their lives during the terrorist attacks that took place this year, while involving more fully all the victims of terrorism throughout the world. I am deeply concerned about the families of the victims who are here in the stands. I would like to offer them our deepest condolences and our sincere condolences. On Friday 6 March 2015, Lieutenant Colonel Ronny Piens from Nederbrakel died in Mali in a terrorist attack that also cost the lives of three Malians and a Frenchman. Lieutenant-Colonel Piens was a paratrooper of training and has worked at the European External Action Service since the beginning of the year as a security officer for the EU Delegation in Bamako. On 18 March 2015, two young Tunisians armed with kalashnikovs opened fire on tourists in the Bardomuseum in Tunis. 22 people died, including our fellow countryman Hilda Van Nerum from Antwerp. On 26 June 2015, thirty-eight innocent tourists were murdered in the seaside town of Sousse, in north-eastern Tunisia, in a savage attack claimed by the Islamic State. As you know, one of our compatriots, Mrs. Svitlana Novoselska living in Namur lost her life in this attack. It was with horror and dismay that we learned on Friday 13 November that barbaric terrorism had once again, alas, struck our French neighbours but this time on an unprecedented scale. The balance of the gruesome massacre in Paris is particularly difficult. The death toll has now risen to 133. Among the victims are people of 26 different nationalities. The whole world, in all its diversity, was in Paris that night. The victims were attorney, teacher, musician, bartender, engineer, student. They were French, Algerians, Tunisians, Romanians, Portuguese, Mexicans, Americans. Unfortunately, we also regret three Belgian deaths: Jozic Milko and Elif Dogan from Liège, and Quentin Boulanger, who lived in France. After the attacks against Charlie Hebdo and the Jewish supermarket Hyper Cacher in early January, which were primarily attacks against freedom of speech and against a certain community, terrorists are now attacking our way of life: a concert in Le Bataclan, a football evening in the Stade de France, a cozy evening in the restaurant or on a terrace on a wide boulevard. The unsubs cowardly killed themselves. Colleagues, As the Prime Minister reminded the House, in addition to the emergency measures that have been put in place since these attacks, we now need to implement a policy that is commensurate with the threats we are facing today. It is not only a duty of reason but also a response to the expectations of our fellow citizens for greater security. To this end, we have set up a temporary commission to examine and translate into legislation the various measures proposed by the Government in the context of the fight against radicalism and terrorism. Good colleagues, The news that two fellow countrymen were killed during the hostage situation at the Radisson Bluhotel in Bamako on Friday 20 November has touched us deeply. One of them was Thierry Jehin, 55 years old, from Saint Peter's Lion. The second Belgian victim was Geoffrey Dieudonné, 39 years old, from Ghlin near Bergen. He was the first board of directors at the Parliament of the French Community. The hostage campaign was ended by Malian and foreign soldiers, who invaded the hotel and liberated the nearly 150 people who held the terrorists hostage. There were 21 deaths, including two hostages, and seven wounded. With their attack, the terrorists wanted to maintain the breeding ground for divisions and conflicts, and weaken the peace process in Mali, which undermines the interests of many fanatics. Colleagues, I would also like to pay tribute to the victims of the bombing, which killed dozens and wounded hundreds on Thursday, 12 November, in a southern quarter of Beirut. The destiny of Lebanon concerns us all, because it is a country where communities of different nature and inspiration strive to live together in peace and stability. I sent a telegram of condolences on behalf of the Chamber to my counterpart, Nabih Berri, President of the Lebanese National Assembly. Finally, the attack, which targeted a presidential security bus in Tunis on Tuesday 24 November, killed at least 13 people and also injured 20 people. By targeting the Presidential Guard, it is one of the strong symbols of the Republic of Tunisia that terrorists attack. It had been less than two months since the state of emergency had been lifted, after having already been established in the wake of the attacks at the Bardo Museum and in Sousse. Good colleagues, It is our duty to do everything we can so that we can all live in a safer world. Every life that's broken down is a tragedy. Words are certainly too short when so many people lose their lives. My mind goes out to all the relatives and friends of the victims. Our thoughts also go out to the wounded, who are now carrying this trauma, and to all those who were faced with these attacks from far or close range.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u3	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, terrorism has no boundaries, no logic and no compassion. Murderers have struck blind in recent months in Paris, Tunis, Bamako, Beirut and in so many other places. We're all in mourning. Too many innocent people have bought their freedom with their lives. That is incomprehensible and unacceptable. We're shocked. We have to deal with this. Terrorists have no respect for human life. They strike at any time and want to make as many victims as possible, including eight compatriots who have been ripped out of our lives forever. Terrorists want to destroy fundamental values, democracy, freedom of conscience, freedom of expression. The fanatics want to force us to think like them, to act like them and to believe like them. It is the very negation of humanity, this humanity so borrowed from differences and therefore from respect. We strongly condemn this fanaticism that feeds terrorism. The honour of the Democrats is to protect our freedoms while defending security with respect for the rule of law and the values we love. We have experienced far too many collective debts: innocent people, the mourning of our eight compatriots murdered loosely by terrorists, criminals without faith or law. Eight innocent victims whose only sin was to love life, freedom, freedom to go out, travel and love. Today, we pay tribute to them. Our thoughts go to their family, their loved ones, their friends. On behalf of the federal government, in my turn, I wish to show them all our compassion and support at such a painful time. Today we pay tribute to the eight countrymen who have died. On behalf of the government, I would like to express my deepest sympathy today to the families of the victims present here. We think of you and feel sorry for you. I hope beautiful memories of your loved ones can ease the suffering. We wish you all the best.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u4	Thank you, Prime Minister. May I ask you to observe a few moments of recollection in memory of all those who have been broke by fanatical blindness and murderous madness?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u5	Mr. President, A.D.E.R.- No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, A for ambition, D for determination, E for commitment, R for responsibility. Four strong words, Prime Minister, that you used within three minutes at the COP21 gallery in Paris. At the same time, we were the laughing stock of the country, of Europe, and even of the 150 leaders from all over the world who accompanied you. Indeed, we have received this "fossil prize" awarded to Belgium for its behaviour in climate matters. However, everything had ended well on the evening of 24 October, when Mrs Marghem blew up the champagne cork to announce that an agreement had been reached with the four "climate" ministers of this country. We had to disappoint very quickly, and last Sunday we were taking over the same and we were resuming the same scenario. Prime Minister, while the debate is under way at COP21 in Paris, what will be Belgium's position? Are we going to follow the indications in the press over the last few days, namely a binding agreement, to reward students who invest to exceed their objectives or these famous measures at the federal level concerning the reduction of CO2 with regard to biofuels, energy saving investments, federal buildings? Finally, what about the 50 million you have announced? Is it a recycling of the existing amount or is it an additional aid to what we wanted in this area? Prime Minister, be careful! There could be no assistance to planet in danger!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u6	Prime Minister, when you took office, I told the press that the N-VA was going to make you suffer the Chinese torment, i.e. the drip that erodes over time. We don't count the number of drops anymore, and this week it's probably one of the biggest drops you, your government and your majority, had to wipe. To hear the Prime Minister say in the COP21 rostrum: "Europe speaks with one voice", but without it being able to say at the same time: "Belgium speaks with one voice", is the confirmation that we have achieved the goal assigned by the nationalists: the internal infringement of the state to prepare confederalism. These are not the only attacks or challenges to your credibility. You had to reframe the Minister of the Interior following his statements on Molenbeek, which directly targeted your party and one of its mayors. We have also been given other contradictory statements within the government on counter-terrorism issues. This is how we heard a Minister of the Interior say that an attack had probably been foiled on the famous weekend when we went to Level 4 and a Minister of Defence say in another daily newspaper: "No, not at all, we have no knowledge of such a fact". I could still point out other incidents, but there are so many that we can't keep up with them anymore. This drop of the N-VA is intended to undermine the credibility of this country. Of course, you will retort that you are serene and determined – a term that you love – and that you face all situations. But, at some point, the citizens perceive that the humiliation that the N-VA inflicts on you undermines the honour and credibility of this country. So only one question arises: how long are you going to endure this humiliation?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u7	Mr President, Prime Minister, this week in particular has been a very difficult one for you. You had to make a speech in Paris and try to convince more than 120 countries to conclude a difficult agreement that determines the future of our planet and, in fact, the future of humanity. According to many, this is the climate summit of the last chance. Just then, you must give your speech, knowing that Belgium, the country you represent, is not in a position to conclude a climate agreement. That was a difficult assignment. We know, Prime Minister, that you can say a lot without really saying anything, which we regularly observe in your reply in this House. And that's what you did in Paris. You understand that this is a very difficult situation for the people, don't you? Our country, a handkerchief large, fails to reach an agreement. Yemen and other developing countries can, we can't. And then suddenly there is another proposal from the Flemish Government, which believes that it will succeed now. The N-VA managed to sink the agreement last time. It now has a new proposal, which is apparently less favourable to Flanders. We were called the Fossil of the day on Monday. With the various decisions you have made this week, you and your government have honoured this title. I refer to Objectives 1 and 2 and to the agreement with Electrabel. My questions are simple. The summit in Paris is going on for four days. When will we reach an agreement? What does the Flemish Government's proposal say? Will this government be able to conclude an agreement so that we do not remain the threat of the world?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u8	Prime Minister, my colleagues have asked you about the lack of agreement on the allocation of effort. And they're right! Belgium has lost a lot of credibility and its image is also damaged because of this lack of agreement. As an environmentalist, rather than also pointing to this problem of distribution, I would like to point out that Belgium lacks ambition. I was in the hallways when you delivered your speech at the Bourget a few days ago. While most countries are here to commit themselves to 2030, 2050, and even 2100 for some, you, Prime Minister, have simply confirmed that you will honour the commitments of previous governments. Worse, while in 2014, Belgium spent €96 million on 'climate' financial contributions for developing countries, you said at the rostrum in Paris, in front of the entire planet, that Belgium, in 2020, will intervene to the tune of €50 million. A halving of the resources devoted! While at the same time you called for all countries, for all your colleagues to be ambitious, you were not. Sweden, to take this example only, has 10 million inhabitants and committed 580 million to the financial fund. And you, 50 million euros! Mr Prime Minister, when you returned from Paris, were you not a little embarrassed about that EUR 50 million? Like what, for example, Sweden is doing or what others are thinking, would you not think about raising your commitments? Do you confirm or deny what appeared in the newspaper Le Soir this morning, that as part of the intra-Belgian distribution, the federal government was asking for the removal of all measures related to its jurisdiction? These include tax support for energy savings, support for citizens and energy-saving companies, and support for all public transport issues. Are you going back, too, to previous commitments?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u9	Mr President, Prime Minister, in the last ten years the image of Belgium has never been undermined as it is today: the hub of terrorism, the nation without a state, the absence of a decision. The fact of seeing you intervene in Paris in the absence of an agreement has only reinforced these criticisms. However, the four negotiators of the National Climate Commission have spared no effort. They reached an agreement a month ago. This agreement was denounced by the N-VA. Despite this, they recovered around the table; they made concessions and again reached an agreement. This Sunday compromise, the N-VA denounced him. But she did not denounce him on Sunday, when adjustments were still possible before the opening of COP21. She denounced him on Monday afternoon. In this way, the N-VA had the guarantee that you would go up to the COP21 gallery without agreement. The N-VA therefore had the guarantee that Belgium would be decredible and its image debarred. I could understand that the N-VA would do so if the consequences were dramatic for Flanders. But, obviously, that is not the case. The Flemish Minister CD&V has twice defended this agreement. Yesterday, in the Flemish Parliament, the parliamentarians of the Flemish majority openly criticized the N-VA. Prime Minister, we are not in a community business, we are in a state business today. Federal Belgium is under attack because the N-VA wants to destroy it from the inside. Prime Minister, I very sincerely feel sorry for you. Even if it's not my habit, I'm sorry you had to go to Paris without agreement. I pity you for being the prime minister of a country that receives the "fossil prize." I very sincerely pity you for being at the head of a country whose main party wants the end! Prime Minister, my question will be simple, will you bring the N-VA back to your senses?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u10	Mr Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, what we have seen on Monday and this week was of course not a good sight, either politically or for this government. In terms of climate ambitions, we expect an ambitious government to go to the Paris conference with a climate plan. Mr Prime Minister, the reason why we stood there and why you had to make a speech without an agreement is, of course, due not only to the federal level but also to the regional governments. This is where many black people are played, but it is mainly the regional governments of this country who are unable to achieve the distribution of objectives. Saying that this is the fault of one and not of the other is clearly wrong. Yesterday my colleague Schiltz intervened in the Flemish Parliament, steps were taken forward and new proposals were made. The same applies to Wallonia and Brussels, and we must stop playing each other the wrong way. The next point, Mr Prime Minister, and I would point out that this is happening at federal level, is that the next day you held a press conference on extending the life of two nuclear power stations, two reactors. You did that against the backdrop of a missing climate plan. You must understand that the people do not understand this, because, on the one hand, the ambitions or the plan are lacking, but, on the other hand, you are standing there at the press conference. Over the last few days, I have spoken about this extension with many experts, and you could have defended it, because there is an explanation to justify such an extension, but you cannot do so without a comprehensive long-term energy strategy. This is crucial. You now have an agreement with Engie on these two reactors, but it is only now that the work begins to implement an energy policy that will enable the switch to be made by 2025. When can we continue to do so and make more progress?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u11	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to try to provide an answer on the basis of the facts. I hear many compliments from the opposition, for which I am grateful. However, I note that this dossier is a very old one in Belgian politics. If it is so easy, Mr Nollet, why didn't you find a solution when you were Minister? It bothers you, doesn't it, Mr. Nollet? It bothers you! Ladies and gentlemen, what are the facts? A year ago, a few days after the start of our government, I was confronted with this challenge at a European Council. We have worked at European level in recent months. At the first European Council at which I represented Belgium, we managed to get involved in the European concert. Regularly, for the past year, within the European framework, we have taken decisions taken on behalf of Belgium. It is not fair to say, as I have heard here, that we were ridiculous on Monday in Paris. What is right is that a candidate in the sp.a election has given the "fossil prize" to Belgium! That's the truth! What are the facts? It's certainly not my intention to look at the past. [[Objections to different banks]] May I speak, Mr. Calvo? Is it possible to express a position different from yours? Our intention is to do everything in our power to reach an agreement. What are the facts? In recent days, and also during the weekend before we left for Paris, we have tried to reach an agreement with the Prime Ministers. I've heard a lot of points of view here, but what is the truth? A few hours before leaving for Paris on Sunday evening, I personally tried, together with the Flemish Minister-President and the Walloon Minister-President, to bring the points of view closer together. I made proposals on Sunday evening, which were rejected by the Walloon government. Indeed, the following day, on Monday, refusals came from the Flemish government. That's the facts! This means that in the dynamics of negotiation... [[Brouhaha on the benches]] Mr President, may I speak? Can I answer a question without being interrupted? I repeat, on Sunday evening, I made a proposal which was accepted by the Flemish Government and which was not implemented by the Walloon Government on Sunday evening. That's the reality, Mrs. Onkelinx! That's the reality!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u12	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u13	I understand the truth is disturbing! Since Monday, we have been in constant contact with the cabinets of the various governments concerned. A quarter of an hour before the beginning of the session, contacts had still taken place, since the Brussels government was in a meeting. There were also consultations in Wallonia on the subject. Tomorrow morning, it is planned to hold meetings with the various heads of cabinet to try to draft a compromise text. I'm fighting hard! I am trying to play the good offices with a view to reaching an agreement as soon as possible. I recall that, on the one hand, we have taken the decision to support the European efforts to which we fully subscribe and, on the other hand, we must allocate efforts among ourselves. I really think that we have never been so close to an agreement in the last six years. We're very close to an agreement. The last efforts are the most complicated for each of the entities, as is the case each time and I appeal to everyone to be responsible. I solemnly express the federal government's commitment to continue to fully mobilize, to make the necessary efforts to bring this outstanding issue to fruition as soon as possible over the past six years. I hope to be able to put it into practice in the hours or in the days to come.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u14	Mr President, Prime Minister, fortunately, that ridiculousness does not kill and that you were better in Paris, since in Paris you still said the following words: "We have an appointment with the destiny of humanity. It's time for decisions and action. We need to build bridges, build convergences, forge strong agreements between us." Prime Minister, we are asking you to move from speech to action and not wait until Flanders has its feet in the water to move forward on this issue. Finally, I would like to make Victor Hugo's thought: "It is a sad thing to think that nature speaks and that the human race does not listen to it".
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u15	Prime Minister, it was enough to see, on the benches of the majority, how some refrained from applause when others of the majority spoke, or how some reacted when you questioned one or the other government to understand that you don't have all your majority behind you. That's the first problem. That's the problem of your majority! That is the truth! The second truth, Prime Minister, if you come to an agreement, is not because you have the determination or the ability to do so. It is because the weight of the Conference means that you cannot confess a failure, but it is only under the constraint of the eyes of the International Conference that you are led to reach an agreement. If you didn't, you wouldn't have it!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u16	Prime Minister, your answer really is to cry. It was like a conference of some comedian. You could have just said that there is no agreement and that it is being worked on, but you did not, and like a little child you said it was the others, for you. You made a complete fool of our country once again. I really hope that you, together with Mrs Marghem and the ministers of the regions, will reach an agreement, but I suggest that you start negotiating now on the distribution of the fine we will get, because if we do not have an agreement, we will get a fine and it will also have to be divided among the different regions. It was always said that this government would take care of the children and the grandchildren. Well, it does not, Prime Minister, because it uses the recipes from grandmother's time, namely the old energy and the old methods, to reach a climate agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u17	Mr President, Prime Minister, do you think for a moment that Bangladesh, where 200 million people have to move, Niger, where the desert is growing three kilometres a year, Fiji, which is at risk of disappearing, is interested in the fact that Wallonia refused a deal on Sunday and that on Monday it was Flanders' turn? Do you think for a moment that this is the priority today? One thing is clear: the EUR 50 million granted by Belgium must no longer be negotiated. This represents half of the amount committed in 2014. In this regard, there is no longer any question of negotiations. The answer was given in Paris. There is a lack of ambition. This is what all vulnerable countries are paying attention to because of climate change such as Bangladesh, Niger and Fiji. For them, no matter what intrabelgian distribution. What is certain is that Sweden, whose number of inhabitants is the same as that of our country, has raised EUR 580 million, whereas only EUR 50 million has been released by Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u18	Mr. President, Prime Minister, you are reinventing history! Do I need to detail the press titles that announced on Monday afternoon that the Flemish government, and especially the N-VA, denounced the agreement? In addition, Monday afternoon in Paris, when you go up to the COP21 stand, you get naked by the N-VA! Despite this, today you seem to find all this normal and harmless. But you're suffering from Stockholm syndrome! Sweden, again! If you think that being decreditized is not your problem, but there is obviously much more serious because today, through all this, Belgium as a whole is being decreditized. Prime Minister, we will do everything we can to reach an ambitious agreement in the coming days. That being said, the evil is done because the credibility of Belgium is being undermined!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u19	Mr Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I haven't been here very long, only a year and a half. As a young politician, it saddens me that this afternoon we are seeing bad theater on such an important subject as the climate, where black people are playing each other. In all honesty, I find that beneath everything. Apart from that, I believe that we have an important challenge here at federal level, alongside that of the region's neighbours, namely the development of a long-term energy strategy. We must make it clear to the people how we are going to make the change.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u20	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u21	Mrs. Temmerman, if you'd like to stop your performance, I can say something. We have to make that change and so we cannot park this file until 2025. We have a solution for a number of reactors, but how are we going to make the switch? That work starts now. What should happen to CO2 emissions? What are the ambitions? What's gonna happen to the nuclear? How will renewable energy be subsidised? That is an urgent debate. We expect an ambitious government in this area. Our group will be pulling the cart to ensure that this file is on-going and certainly not parked until 2025.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u22	Prime Minister, last Sunday, at a European summit, a deal was reached between the European Union and Turkey on how to deal with the refugee crisis. The European Union is apparently so powerless that it must outsource the problems it cannot control itself. This is happening to a country such as Turkey, which has a huge responsibility in the matter. Erdogan was quite sure of his case and he did not even think it was worth coming to Brussels himself, because he sent his Prime Minister. Afterwards, the Turkish Prime Minister was particularly in the clouds about the agreement. He called it an historic agreement, and from his point of view it certainly is, because almost all Turkish demands were met. That is the question of money. Initially, EUR 3 billion will be allocated, but this amount may still be increased. There is also an agreement to abolish the visa requirement by the end of next year, so that the 78 million Turkish citizens can move freely within the European Union. Last but not least, in the same week in which President Erdogan put the editor-in-chief of an opposition newspaper in Turkey in prison because he publishes evidence of arms deliveries by the secret service of Turkey to IS, an agreement is reached to strengthen Turkey's accession negotiations to the European Union. In short, Turkey is buying into the European Union with money from the European Union. Prime Minister, I have a lot of questions to ask. I shall now confine myself to three specific questions. First of all, what exactly was agreed? According to the conditions we have to date guessing. How will these conditions be qualified? Nobody knows, nobody answers. The Council's conclusions have not yet been published, and that is very exceptional. I would therefore very much like you to deliver the text of the agreements to the Chamber. Secondly, does the Copenhagen criteria for accession also apply to Turkey? Is the support to terrorists in accordance with those criteria? Has your government investigated the information according to which Turkey imports oil from ISIS? Finally, what are the consequences of the visa waiver? What does the European Commission's forecasts say about illegal immigration of Turks as a result of the visa waiver? I am very curious to hear your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u23	Prime Minister, friends are chosen, allies happen to someone, I would say. In a crisis, particularly in the current refugee crisis and in the fight against IS, a very broad international alliance is needed. Turkey is part of that. It is clear that Turkey will also play a role in a broad and constructive solution. However, I repeat, Mr Prime Minister, that we must not be naive. I am very pleased that you have brought that element into the debate. The agreement concluded last weekend and mentioned in some quarters the hammam agreement still raises some concerns about a number of issues. It would be nice if you could give the Chamber the necessary clarity. Our group naturally supports that the agreement contains a package of EUR 3 billion. It is also government policy to support the reception of refugees in the region. I believe that this is a consistent implementation. The question needs to be asked how these resources will be provided, where they come from and who has access to them. I would also like to ask you a few questions about the fact that some countries seem to have met, in a statute that is not clear to me, to talk about resettlement. What was the statute of that meeting? What was the Belgian Government's position on this matter? Within what contours should we place the rumours about this? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u24	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is an important point. Everyone understands that the problem of refugees is a very delicate and difficult challenge, not only for Belgium but for the whole of Europe. Everyone is also aware of the need to find strategic cooperation, a partnership, with our neighbours, and certainly with a neighbouring country such as Turkey. Today there are 2.4 million refugees in Turkey. That is today's reality. There are other countries such as Jordan or Lebanon, which also play an important role. The European Commission's intention was to strengthen the logic of cooperation with Turkey. I repeat, I am not naive. I know that Turkey will defend its own agenda. It is the responsibility of the European countries, including Belgium, to defend their own interests. That's what we do. The amount of EUR 3 billion. I was and remain very careful. I say very clearly that no blank cheque should be given. This means that the money must serve to improve the situation of refugees in Turkey, health care, education. I have defended that position very strongly. In this way, more space will be given to organise shelter close to the countries in crisis. That is the purpose of the agreement. I also repeat that we do not intend to release Belgian money without Turkey making its commitments concretely. We want to see the commitments made by the Turkish Government respected. That is why the European Commission has proposed that the money be released by means of discs. For example, permanent monitoring is possible. Like I said, I know it's a delicate and difficult point. It must also be clear that the accession process opens up the possibility of talking about human rights in Turkey. That's what we did. It is clear that Turkey is still very far from fulfilling the conditions of the accession process. In any case, this must be considered on the basis of the Treaties. There is no exception in this respect. The informal meeting before the start of the summit with Turkey came at the initiative of Germany. Eight countries were invited, which play an important role in the reception of refugees. Germany took the initiative to propose a strategy for the resettlement of refugees residing in Turkey today. I have made it clear that this is not possible for us. We must first look at what concrete commitments Turkey will make and what it will do. Today, that is not possible. Belgium includes its responsibility in the file on the reception of refugees.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u25	Prime Minister, you say that you are not prepared to write a blank cheque, but that is actually what you are doing. You speak of concretisation and realizations, but I have not heard you mention any qualified condition. It stays with a Turkish promise. The Turkish Prime Minister said at the end of the summit that he could not give any guarantees. He said that he cannot guarantee that the flow of refugees to the European Union will be reduced rapidly. Prime Minister, I stick to the principle that you should not sit at the table with an Erdogan who can send the flow of refugees at will. Because the external borders of the European Union are not adequately guarded, you will move the external borders, which is ridiculous and even cowardly. The European Union itself must guard its external borders. Your government must protect the land borders and your government must protect the democratic, western values. In the case of Turkey, I am thinking in particular of freedom of expression, human rights and women's rights. Instead of doing that, you make opportunistic deals. Your government is acting like a Brussels branch of the Turkish AK party.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u26	Prime Minister, I am very pleased that our country is adopting a firm stance on this matter. That is also the only position that can be adopted in this regard. If Turkey can make a tough, guaranteed appointment, it is in everyone's interest. However, let us not be naive: the statements on the Turkish side must make us even more attentive than they are now. We must avoid taking measures which would lead us to become more acidic in the longer term and which might cause more problems than solve them. I therefore welcome your reply that Turkey is still very far from joining the EU. As far as my group is concerned, there is even a huge distance to go before Turkey meets the Copenhagen criteria. For my group, it is clear that Turkey's EU membership is not on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u27	Mr President, Prime Minister, I am reluctant to ask these questions because I asked a question a few weeks ago and could not suspect that we would finally get this decision. It is not the first time that a decision has been taken on the extension and partial closure, which happened a few years ago, but what is new? Previously, a decision was made on the basis of a report by Elijah stating what could and could not be done. Now a decision was made with a report from Elijah in which the opposite is stated. The report given to the government by Elijah states that there will be no shortage in the coming years when the tearing plants are opened and Objectives 1 and 2 are closed down. In the coming years, therefore, there is no need for a strategic reserve. This applies not only to the coming winter, but also to the winter after, and the winter after. However, that is not so bad, because what is left in the report? With Objective 1 and 2 open, security of supply does not improve. We might think that it does not benefit, but it does not harm. However, what is gained by keeping Objectives 1 and 2 open, according to the report, is lost in import capacity. The supply capacity is therefore not improved. The only effect is to reduce competition. Maybe you think that's a good thing, but I don't. There will therefore be less competition on the market. No less strategic reserve is needed. Security of supply is not increasing. I have already seen Mrs Marghem sign that this is not in the report. I am sorry, but any objective analyst can only confirm that the report literally states that there is no need for a strategic reserve if the two are kept open and that security of supply is not improved. I cannot ask a sensible question about such a nonsensical decision that you could answer, but I note that the report of 13 November dates back. It is not about the content, but about the way in which we were deceived, misinformed and fooled here in Parliament. That's what this is about. Two weeks ago, we put a question to Mrs Marghem. There was no mention of that report at the time, while it was dated 13 November. Why should Parliament not be informed? Have the ministers been briefed? Did the vice prime ministers know that or did they keep that report secret, as we suspect, in order to close the deal with Electrabel? It is as they say, keep people stupid, then one can do what one wants.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u28	Mr President, Prime Minister, on Tuesday morning you told us, as well as all the citizens, a pretty fable to justify the extension of Doel 1 and Doel 2 and, after 48 hours, all your statements collapse. Your decision to extend Doel 1 and Doel 2 is not only unjustifiable, expensive, dangerous, but also hypocritical. It is unjustifiable in terms of security of supply, and you know that, Prime Minister. You justified it by the blackout, but all the reports, the CREG, the Energy DG and, as Mr Vande Lanotte said, an 80-page study by Elia show that we do not need Doel 1 and Doel 2 for our security of supply. It's a first untruth. It is expensive for the consumer. You mentioned an investment of 4.5 billion euros. I read the convention. I thought this one would offer guarantees. That's not the case! Nothing, when I say nothing, it's nothing! These are promises, wind, but there is no constraint at all. On the other hand, the consumer knows that you have raised VAT from 6 to 21 % and that he pays 100 euros in addition. The consumer also knows that the EUR 700 million that will be injected into two totally useless plants will be paid by the consumer because there is nothing in the convention. She's dangerous. Admit that a country that has seven reactors in operation is more dangerous than a country that has only five. That is common sense. They are also waste for future generations. She's totally hypocritical. By going back to the law on the exit of nuclear power which the vast majority of this majority voted, except for the N-VA – in fact, almost all the experts told us and repeat that seven reactors are not known to be extinguished in two years – you are committing this country to nuclear power for a long time, well beyond 2025. Prime Minister, I ask you to tell us the truth. Did you have Elia's report that was submitted to you on November 13, 2015 and that says we don't need Doel 1 and Doel 2? Does EDF agree with this agreement? Mr President, I end with something I've never seen before. I believe that no colleague has ever seen him before. The minister promised us, before the convention was signed, a bill to give us the terms of the convention, as the Council of State called for. What is annexed to the convention is the bills called for but countersigned by Mr Mestrallet! Today, it is no longer parliament or government that make the laws, it is private operators. Prime Minister, that is not my definition of democracy!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u29	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to welcome our new colleague, the one hundred and fifty-first Member of Parliament, a certain Gegé, Gérard Mestrallet. He is now the one who signs the nuclear bills. He has a small advantage over us, he can see them and adopt them before us. Prime Minister, do you find it normal for the leader of a multinational to be aware of and agree to a future bill before Members of Parliament? Do you find this democratic? The Minister of Energy promised us these bills, but we don't have them! Is that normal when we were promised? Do you find it normal that the amounts you arrived at during this negotiation were already in the budget for 2015 and 2016? Do you find it normal to extend Doel 1 and Doel 2 while Elia considers it unnecessary? Prime Minister, do you find it normal that the rent should be reduced if Electrabel shuts down its old or cracked power plants? This is the double penalty for Belgium since we lose electricity and money. I come to my last question, which is the most essential. Are you responsible for blocking Belgium until 2025 in this nuclear scenario, which prevents us from investing truly in renewable energies and which, every day, puts us in danger with old and cracked power plants?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u30	Mr. President, Prime Minister, admit it's pretty amazing! For the first time, this Tuesday we attended a press conference – at 16 rue de la Loi, in the bunker – of the Michel-Electrabel government that celebrated all smiles at the funeral in great pomp of the energy transition. Yesterday afternoon, we received the Elia report on security of supply, which confirms what we have been saying to the Minister of Energy for months, namely that we do not need to restart Doel 1 and Doel 2, contrary to what has been repeated to us dozens of times. As a matter of chance, the report that was tabled on November 13 at the Minister's office was not made public until the day after the agreement with Electrabel was signed. The decisions that are taken therefore lack transparency with regard to Parliament and, in particular, the majority. I appeal to the Commission, in view of this situation. Prime Minister, why did you want to extend Doel 1 and Doel 2 except to establish the policy of "nuclear everything" that you are advocating with your majority? Moreover, we have said and repeated in this Committee on Energy that it seems to us quite inconceivable that a private operator can negotiate with the State the amount of the tax he has to pay. Let's all try to do the same with our contribution controller: good luck! Moreover, it is amazing that the state does not at least show a concern for equality or equity. What happens with others, e.g. EDF? Prime Minister, can you confirm to me, swear to me that there is no agreement with EDF other than that signed by Engie? Where will equal treatment be? That's a question I'm asking you. And then, what about EDF's possible recourse to nuclear rents? Last, and I conclude, Mr President, 4.3 billion investments are promised by Engie. But what is the reality of these investments? Will they be dedicated to the energy supply of our country or will they be distilled in the other subsidiaries of the Engie group? There are no details of these investments by Electrabel. Above all, I would like you to be able to guarantee us the security of supply and the investments made in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u31	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Prime Minister, on 30 November you announced the conclusion of an agreement on the nuclear levy as part of the extension of Doel 1 and Doel 2. Yes, this government is responsible. Managing is obviously a decision. Yes, this government works transparently. [[Brouhahaha]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u32	This convention is public! We have never seen this in any other government. This agreement is made public! Yes, this agreement is important in more than one way. Security of supply. Yes, we are not immune to a technical problem. We are not immune to a supply problem with our neighbouring countries: France, the Netherlands. We have to use all the sources... [[Brouhahaha]] I have time, there's no problem!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u33	Let's stay calm!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u34	What I understand is what I'm saying is disturbing. But there is no problem, I will continue to say and maintain it. We must use all the sources that allow us to produce energy. We need to remove this risk of shortage. And yes, Prime Minister, when you took up your duties, the risk of shortage was significant. We must now move away from it. Every megawatt counts. Yes to the competitiveness of our companies! How do you want us to ask investors to come to Belgium if we do not guarantee them energy produced for them? The convention was also an opportunity to recalculate the contribution, the nuclear royalty. But obviously taking into account the reality of the market price. It is an agreement that will allow us to feed a fund that will give the opportunity to finance the energy transition. Prime Minister, can you remind us of the issues surrounding the conclusion of this convention and how this convention will enable us to prepare for the energy transition in our country? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u35	This weekend, ladies and gentlemen, thousands of people have been on the streets throughout this country for an ambitious climate policy, Saturday and Sunday. What happens then? On Monday, a Belgian climate agreement is once again calling off. On Tuesday, our Prime Minister is holding a major press conference with a French energy giant, an ungrateful, arrogant French energy giant, to announce that a 1975 nuclear power plant will remain open for ten years longer. Last night, across this street, Uplace, fine dust, traffic jams, diseases, all in that same week. Frankly, Mr Verherstraeten, Mr Dewael, I do not understand why CD&V and Open Vld are silent here today in the target debate as the grave. At least your colleagues across the street still have the courage to stand up to Geert Bourgeois, to tell him they don't want Uplace. Mr Dewael, what is liberal about a nuclear monopoly? What does the stewardship have to do with nuclear waste for future generations? You shut up. CD&V and Open Vld let the climate terror of MR and N-VA just happen. What role does our Prime Minister play in this discussion? He plays the game, he pulls the cart. I'm gonna recreate Tuesday morning. Our Prime Minister thinks it is normal to hold a press conference with the actual Minister of Energy, Gérard Mestrallet, next to him. He thinks that's normal. Old school politics, old boys network. Our Prime Minister has apparently been in possession of a report since the beginning of November which says in black and white that Objective 1 and 2 are not necessary for anything. Mr Prime Minister, my question is very simple. I haven't trusted Mrs. Marghem in a while. I'm starting to doubt your climate and energy response, too. So my question is, were your deputy prime ministers aware of Elijah's report? Was your entire government aware of the report that says that Target 1 and 2 are not necessary for anything? Secondly, join the debate with us. I'd be happy to. What is a valid argument for you to maintain a nuclear monopoly with Objectives 1 and 2 for the coming years? I look forward to your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u36	Ladies and gentlemen, one point we should all agree on in this House is to try, and it is not simple, to meet two objectives at the same time. On the one hand, it is security of supply. I guess no one wants us to be faced at some point with a risk of being relieved. This has clearly been a threat in previous years. On the other hand, this is the energy transition, which is extremely important and requires clarity in the choices made by a government and stability, which has not always been the case in the past. This has led successive governments to have to adjust decisions in terms of energy mix. Meeting these two objectives is a first point I wanted to point out. Secondly, I note that there is a difference of opinion between the opposition and the majority on security of supply. This report by Elia is, of course, an important document, and I will certainly not dispute that. Mrs Lalieux, Mr Vande Lanotte, I do not agree with your interpretation of the report, which I have also consulted. He says that in the next two or three years - we are talking about March 2017 - there will be no difficulties. But if you go through it carefully, you will find that it highlights the large number of unknowns beyond 2017, which are all threats, difficulties. Indeed, today we do not know the choices of the neighbouring countries, on which we are currently extremely dependent. Interconnections will therefore be reduced. Additional point: the closure of Objective 3 and Tihange 2 is planned for 2022 and 2023 respectively. The years 2022 or 2023 is tomorrow! We are therefore convinced that we are taking decisions that guarantee security of supply, that protect us from a shortage, that clarify the pattern we need to move towards, which, as Mr Lachaert rightly said, is necessary. That clarity is necessary. Why? I know it will not be obvious, but it is crucial to conclude an energy pact with the Länder as soon as possible, to make a good choice in the investments for the future, to find a good energy mix for the next few years. That's crucial. With this decision there is a starting point and there is clarity, we can work well and have good consultation. The minister obviously had this report which reinforces the idea that, for a vision of the next ten years, it was useful after 2017, in any case, to be able to extend the plants in question. As for information in Parliament, we have spoken about the previous points with a little passion and emotion, but we are playing cards on the table! We are forwarding the report and the bill at the same time. If we had passed the bill without the convention, we would have been criticized for having to ask for a blank and not know how to negotiate. We give the convention, the bill, all the schedules! I am convinced that the debate in committee will provide the necessary space for Members who are very involved in this matter, to move this issue forward in the right direction, to ensure the competitiveness of companies, security of supply, to succeed in the energy transition in order to make us more sovereign and more autonomous in terms of access to energy. These are the stakes. This will free up investments for the energy transition; the EUR 20 million multiplied by ten, thus EUR 200 million, will be invested in the Energy Transition Fund to support research efforts. Finally, it is not correct to say that we are only focusing on nuclear energy. That's all wrong. Last week in the Council of Ministers we made very important decisions on offshore energy production, Mr Vande Lanotte. Not later than last week, we have taken very important decisions at the Council of Ministers to encourage the offshore. It's too bad you didn't talk about it. Yet these are decisions that we have made!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u37	Mr President, Prime Minister, of course I am talking about this. However, if an analysis dating from the first Tuesday of the month shows that in ten of the twelve months nuclear energy and the limited imports we always have are sufficient to meet our electricity needs, you will leave no room for new investors. You won't find any serious new investor. The people who have started will continue, but you will not find new investors. No one believes that Target 3 and Tihange 2 will be closed in 2022 or 2023. You've frozen the landscape. You are the first liberal minister to claim that a monopoly will make us pay less.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u38	Prime Minister, I obviously accept that the majority defend its policy, which is different from that of the previous government, namely a nuclear policy at all. But I don't accept you telling stories. I don't accept hypocrisy. I don't accept amateurism. I do not accept that a multinational should go before parliament and democracy. I'm just asking you to tell the truth. You've decided to bet everything on nuclear power. You haven't decided on the energy transition. You're not talking about renewable energy. You're not talking about demand management. Prime Minister, the reports of CREG, DG Energy, and now of Elia, who has resolved to tell the truth in Parliament at last, state that Doel 1 and Doel 2 need not be maintained. So you have made, acknowledge, a political and ideological choice that leads our society to nuclear power rather than to the energy transition.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u39	Prime Minister, I would very much like not to come here, almost every week, to say that you are the towel rack of multinationals and thus avoid constantly justifying yourself. Nevertheless, on the one hand, the population will pay 21% VAT on electricity and, on the other hand, the multinational Engie will hit the jackpot three times: once by reinvigorating its cracked power plants, a second time by reinvigorating its obsolete power plants and a third time with a nuclear rent at a discount. Prime Minister, could you try to quantify the gift you're going to give this multinational? The CREG had calculated that at 67% of its capacity, nuclear energy accounted for between EUR 421 million and EUR 506 million per year to Electrabel. At 90% of its capacity, this will bring it back 700 million euros per year minus 150 million rents, or 550 million per year, or 5.5 billion in ten years. That's the amount of the gift you give to Electrabel. Thank you for them!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u40	Prime Minister, your answer clearly reveals the burial of the energy transition, because of your fault, the non-decisions and the decisions taken today. It is the failure of the organizations involved in demand management. Today, you buried the gas, it's very clear! This means that there will be no new energy policy. Let me remind you that Doel 3 and Tihange 2 were restarting and that last winter they were not on the market. What is the need for Doel 1 and Doel 2? I did not have an answer to my question about EDF or the real investments, 4.3 billion for Engie. With this convention, we got a cat in a bag! We don't know what this is about. With regard to the convention attached to the bill, by doubling the parliament, you invented the fiction of the legislator. That's amazing!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u41	Prime Minister, thank you for your clarifications and answers. Everyone has to take their share of responsibilities. Yes, the federated entities could also have played their role in the energy mix. No, it's not a pro-nuclear agreement. It is a balanced, responsible agreement, a legal framework that enables us to ensure this energy transition. This measure is part of a global short-, medium- and long-term framework, and it disturbs the opposition! Prime Minister, we will continue to support you in this regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u42	Mr President, Prime Minister, I note that you are making every effort in the world to avoid telling us when the government received this report and whether the Deputy Prime Minister and the other parties had this report in their possession when you left for Paris to put your wrinkle under that contract. That is actually the biggest problem, I cannot expect you to have a contemporary view of energy, you are not obliged to do so, but a prime minister of this country is obliged to tell the truth. A prime minister of this country must answer parliamentary questions in a fair manner, not only today but also in recent weeks. Mr Michel, I note that your cabinet is beginning to look more and more like the Lies Palace, with Mrs Marghem and Mrs Galant, and you are beginning to take over more and more. You say that this is a dispute between the majority and the opposition. Wrong, it is a disagreement between the Prime Minister, who says on Tuesday morning that it is necessary for our security of supply, and the transport system manager, who says in writing on Wednesday that this is not necessary at all for our security of supply. That's the difference of opinion, that's the discussion. In fact, and with this I conclude, there is no opposition to...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u43	Mr. Calvo.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u44	Mr President, I am about to finish one last sentence. I know that the parliamentary debate is difficult, but one last sentence.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u45	Mr. Calvo, stop. It's over.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u46	Everyone's allowed to chat here, and you turn off my micro.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u47	Mr Calvo, I will give you the timing, please sit down.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u48	It hurts. You're the chairman of the majority.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u49	Mr Calvo, the opposition has all the rights, but you personally have no more than anyone else.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u50	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u51	Mr President, I will take it a little more slowly than my predecessor. Mr Minister, I would like to raise another issue. This is a problem which concerns us all this week. A doctor died in Ingelmunster this week during a house call after a patient stabbed him. The fact that a paramedic gets killed that way certainly affects all of us. Doctors, general practitioners and other aid workers are certainly not the only profession at risk in such cases. However, they are a risk group par excellence. Especially for a general practitioner that is the case. After all, the word says it itself. They are often people who receive patients at home and who have to come home to people at any time of the day or night. I myself am the daughter of a family doctor who has experienced a lot of risky situations at our home. Luckily, they've always worked out well. My dad never let himself get scared, either, which is important. We can't be supposed to overprotect our doctors. After all, there must be a clear link between the patient and the doctor. That bond of trust is important. Nevertheless, it is a question which deserves our attention. Mrs Renate Hufkens asked for figures on the problem some time ago. They were very low, not because the problems did not occur very often, but because there is some reluctance to report patients to the general practitioners. I would therefore like to take advantage of the present moment to call on the general practitioners so that they can give the facts so that we can properly identify the problem. Mr Minister, there is no such thing as removing all risks. I also repeat that we should not over-protect the general practitioner. However, the professional associations have been asking for an alarm button or some kind of app for a long time, allowing them to send a signal to 112 in threatening situations. Mr Minister, my questions are as follows. How's the app coming? Do you have any further plans?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u52	Mr President, Mrs van Peel, it is impossible to completely rule out unfortunate incidents, as we have experienced this week. However, it is true that the Home Office is developing an app. The app is ready and is currently being tested. It is important that the app undergoes a test period. After all, we do not want a call from someone in need to be lost. So the app is now being tested. When the test is satisfactory, the app will also be implemented and delivered to the GPs. In the meantime, general practitioners can always contact the police immediately. However, the app is now being tested during a pilot project and will be rolled out in the near future when the tests are successful.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u53	Thank you, Minister, for that answer. I'm very glad you're working on it. It is an app that will be able to be used more widely, but the app will certainly be of interest to this profession. I believe that the doctors' associations now have the task of making their members aware of the obligation to report. At the time, a leaflet was made up on the subject. Perhaps we should bring it up again. It's a pity that such an incident had to happen, but I'm glad you're working on it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u54	Mr President, Deputy Prime Minister, the BOB campaign today celebrates its twenty-year anniversary. After twenty years, we can say that BOB saved lives. BOB has even become a popular icon because no one knows the number of evenings where the expression is quoted. In addition, it is today the most effective preventive solution found in relation to the problem of alcohol driving. The BOB programme is very effective and the fact that it has been extended to all three regions of the country is proof of this. It still has all its legitimacy despite the duration. Last year's results were the best in terms of positive controls; we are only 2.8% above the standards, while, according to one study, the IBSR gives figures of 2.9%. However, we must still regret that 12% of injuries are related to alcohol consumption. This anniversary year will see a special action at the level of Assuralia. Indeed, they decided to involve everyone in this anniversary by proposing the presence of a cake truck at major events in order to distribute the birthday cake to the Belgians. In addition, a national alcohol-free weekend will be held from 15 to 18 January with the theme "We're not half BOB!" In the current level 3 context, it is clear that road safety campaigns are taking on a particular dimension. I come to my questions. Minister, do you think that enough police officers will be able to ensure their presence for security reasons related to Level 3 but also to carry out the police checks necessary for the BOB campaign? What concrete measures will be put in place, a fortiori in small local areas where police officers are already in high demand? Are there any special safety instructions, in particular with regard to identity checks or personnel equipment?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u55	Mr President, Mr Burton, I can confirm that the BOB campaign circular was distributed last week. Last weekend, several local areas already started the campaign. As we are on alert 3, we must prioritize the tasks of the police officers. However, I confirm to you that the BOB campaign remains in the priority tasks of the police. It's a guarantee. You're asking me about the measures taken. It is ensured that, for every device on the streets, a person is armed with a rifle so that colleagues can carry out the checks and all members are wearing their bulletproof vests. The protection of colleagues during checks is therefore provided for. Be aware that other strategic and tactical measures that cannot be seen are being taken. You will agree that it would not be very intelligent to reveal them.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u56	Deputy Prime Minister, I thank you for your reply, which certainly reassures several colleagues who are also mayors and therefore present in police colleges. I would like to thank you for taking responsibility for the security measures that have been implemented, whether in the context of level 3 threat or the BOB campaign.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u57	Mr Deputy Prime Minister, a few days ago there was a police intervention in the city of Kortrijk, in which young people who could not open their own bicycle lock were impressively overpowered, carried away, searched and stripped. That is not obvious, but it is not a clear time, of course, not even for the police. Moreover, we must congratulate these police forces on the great work they have done over the past few days, but they are already under enormous pressure for weeks and months. Many expectations can also be met in the zone of VLAS, which includes Kortrijk. There too, of course, there is a threat level 3. There are great expectations, but also small expectations about bicycle thefts, a real plague in the region. That high pressure is there and makes it difficult for the police to work, especially in a city where this week a gang of burglars with the average age of 14 years was caught. It is therefore important that the police have the support of public opinion in order to be able to work properly. In order to gain this support from public opinion, people also need to know very well why the police are developing certain techniques of power, especially against young people. Many in my city have looked strangely, were very surprised or were unpleasantly surprised when they saw the images of that particular intervention. Mothers and fathers fear that as a son or daughter the bicycle lock cannot be opened immediately, they risk quite a lot in the city. Children may be children and minors deserve a different approach from a wanted terrorist. All interventions should therefore also be proportionate. I must say that the police force of the zone VLAS is doing a wonderful job. It's also a force that works actively around values. It is therefore a pity that the whole story has been undertone by latent racism or assessment of external characteristics such as skin colour, which is obviously unacceptable. (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u58	I am supposed to be paying attention to speaking time here. So I'll do that myself, won't I? Thank you very much. Mr. Deseyn, follow up.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u59	I regret that the opposition cannot live with this. We are having a very serene debate on an extremely precarious situation, in which we respect the security services and our young people. Mr President, I come to my conclusion. Minister, wasn't the display of power, with all the known elements available to the police at the time, too great? Wasn't the assistance of a trusted person necessary for these young people? Are the procedures with regard to minors adequate? Finally, I can only endorse the theorem of the Antwerp Chief of Staff. He also said today that any control must be carried out correctly and politely at all times.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u60	Mr President, Mr Deseyn, I do not understand why you are asking me this question here today. This is about the action of the local police. This will be arranged by the local police council. This intervention was also discussed there. Your party is also represented in this. The case was dealt with there on 30 November and closed as well. That's the democratic control body on the local police. As a result of your question, I did contact the local chief of police. You will understand that I will not repeat the whole story. The local chief of police did tell me that one of the inspectors present at the intervention is the specialist on violence control, both armed and unarmed. I therefore assume that this specialist knows and applies the law on police duties. I am not aware of an investigation by the P Committee. The chief of police wasn't aware of that either. If this were the case, let us wait and see. However, this is essentially a competence of the local police council.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u61	Mr President, Minister, since there are many federal interfaces, we are thinking of the competence of the P Committee and the instructions that are being circulated from Brussels. It is important that we do have the debate here. After all, this dossier deserves a good follow-up. The same applies to many other places with similar facts, if not very committed young people, bridge figures in the city, are threatening to drop out. That is exactly the reaction we do not want to hear. It is not a question of choosing camp for the young and against police intervention. However, one must dare to recognise human damage and we must be aware of the proper guidance. I therefore dare to count on good guidance in analogue cases. Our group will always argue for conflict mediation and only move higher towards repression when there really is no room for dialogue.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u62	Mr President, Minister, I have heard today that a tax investigation has been launched concerning a number of Airbnb tenants, i.e. persons taking new initiatives, forms of collaborative economy, which we can only welcome. Because whether we want it or not, the future and the growing Belgian economy will also depend on such new initiatives, which we must embrace. I refer to Airbnb, but there are many new types and forms of initiative in the collaborative economy. So I'm asking you to embrace these, grow them and make use of a playing field that other players should also be able to have. I'm touching a weak point with that. It is up to the government to ensure a level playing field for all economic players, not only for new initiatives and new activities, but also for those already in place. It is therefore particularly important that taxation, as an important lever for a level playing field in the economic sphere, should be able to ensure a level playing field. Mr Minister, a tax investigation was opened with regard to Airbnb tenants, but what is their scope? I would also like to call on you immediately to offer a clear and transparent fiscal framework for such initiatives now, while still possible. It cannot be the intention to organise a manhunt for those involved. There should be a clear framework on who should indicate what and when, as well as on the impact of the reporting obligation on Airbnb users. So I ask for clarity for initiators and users and not just a manhunt for the initiatives.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u63	Mr President, Mrs Smaers, I have no choice but to say to you that many things are changing in our economy, that there are many new players that we need to be able to do as much as possible. Airbnb is certainly one of the new economic initiatives. They must be given every opportunity, but, as you mentioned in your question, we must at the same time ensure that there is a level playing field between the new players and the traditional ones. The administration, in this case indeed the BBI, is currently documenting the working method and structure of Airbnb, whose mother house is located in Ireland. That information will serve to determine the appropriate tax treatment at a subsequent stage. The research currently under way is conducted in two ways. On the one hand, a desk analysis is carried out, trying to map the data available on the Internet. On the other hand, research is also being carried out by the company and by the contractors themselves. In this way, the administration aims to obtain as complete a picture as possible of the activities and structures used. Let me give you an example of the obstacles that are at issue. VAT on commissions is regulated by Airbnb Ireland. The problem arises that Belgian landlords are not indicated through the intra-Community listing of Airbnb in Ireland. That, of course, makes their identification difficult. Questions are now being sent for information, to gain more insight. It's done through a sample. At the moment it is about a dozen landlords, not to fish them but to get information about how the structures are put together. Further initiatives will be taken on the basis of the results of this study and of the qualifications that can be linked to the services concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u64	In my reply, Minister, I would like to call for a distinction to be made in the clear tax advice to this new sector between those who very sporadically make an apartment or a home available via Airbnb and those who make it a regular economic activity. I believe that this difference not only with Airbnb, but also with future forms of collaborative economy should lead to a significant difference in tax treatment. I would ask you to include this point in the further research, to look at it more globally and to create a clear framework so that we have precise information for initiators and users.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u65	Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, perhaps I can explain a few words first. What's grooming? I hate to give an example of it, but let me give you the definition of it. A groomer is an adult person who approaches a child for sexual acts. Cyber-grooming concerns an adult person who does so via the internet, via Facebook, Twitter or Snapchat. Sexting is the online distribution of sexually tinted messages, videos, naked photos etc. Minister, a report on the Koppen programme should not be broadcast on this subject for the time being, but it has already received a lot of airplay today. According to programmers, it is very easy to create a false profile on Facebook.We knew that for a long time and it is very easy for groomers to approach children in that way. At the end of the previous legislature, in 2014, a law was passed in the Senate, and then here too, in which the penalty for grooming was increased and with which cybergrooming was also incorporated into the Penal Code. Today there are prison sentences of one to even five years on grooming. I had a number of questions on that, Minister. I put it to you many months ago, but I have not received an answer to it so far. So I look forward to your answers. How many people have been prosecuted for grooming? How many convictions have there been? Do you see an increase in statistics on sexual exploitation via ICT? Is there a need for a separate registration of sexual exploitation via ICT? Measuring is knowing and it is only through the correct measurement and recording that the phenomenon can be mapped out and that we can effectively see whether the legislation adopted actually applies and can be used to fight against that kind of evil phenomena.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u66	Mrs Lijnen, I do not have the answer to your question, because the question you are asking here was not in your written version, but it was not as far as I could see. So I'll talk about grooming and sexting, as far as I can, but I can't give you the figures you're asking for. I'll say that right away. I don't think I have those statistics, but if I had them, I wouldn't have them. I also come from a European Council and I am going back there. In short, grooming is punishable today. You described that very well. It is an aggravating circumstance of a number of sexual offences that a child or a minor is approached and confided in advance by means of means of covert means. Sexting is a crime that hasn't been described yet. It's the contraction of the words sex and texting. Of course, it also happens a lot between young people and the elderly, but it becomes dangerous when it happens between young people and the elderly. It can then come in the context of other crimes, such as extortion, blackmail and so on. At the moment, a sub-committee of the Lanzarote Working Party, under the Council of Europe Convention, is examining whether the issue is specifically linked to a criminal offence. My administration is following that closely. I am very concerned about these matters with you. If, however, you have asked a written question to which I have still not answered, I will certainly do so at the earliest opportunity and offer you my humblest apology.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u67	I am concerned about the lack of figures, Minister. Let's be honest, it takes a report from Koppen to increase our public indignation in the first instance. I believe that she has actually achieved a great deal today, because parents, educators, teachers and we all know that a child from that safe living room, living room or bedroom can get in touch with people who have bad intentions via chat or Facebook. It's just that safety they're in in the living room that's in stark contrast to those people's horrible bad intentions. Prevention and communication are essential elements. We parents, too, must know this and have a responsibility in it. We MEPs have a responsibility in this too. We pass laws here and laws must be implemented. I asked the question about the results in June 2015. Those results are still not being given to me today. Something tells me this is because there are no results yet. The question then is whether we are not obliged to act forcefully in the area of police and justice and to ensure that there are results there too. That is what society expects of us, that is what ultimately has to be the outcome. That is also why reports like Koppen no longer need to be broadcast.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u68	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the European Union and our country are going through an unprecedented migration crisis. Mr Secretary of State, you are facing this important problem, which leads you to create places in order to accommodate all those seeking refugee status in Belgium. In the last few days, I have had the opportunity to visit two accommodation and reception centres in the province of Liège and have seen that the population is spread over more than 45 different nationalities. Mr Secretary of State, what are the rules for defining that a country is in such a situation that one of its nationals can leave it and join Belgium or the European Union in order to obtain refugee status there? What is the way to determine that this country is in real danger? In other words, how are you going to define a country as safe?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u69	My colleague, Belgian law provides for the conditions under which international protection should be granted. As a reminder, this protection is granted to persons who, first of all, have left their country of origin because they were persecuted because of their nationality, race, political or religious opinion or membership of a certain social group. That is what the Geneva Convention specifies. Secondly, this protection is granted to those who, if returned to their country of origin, face a real risk of serious harm. It's subsidiary protection. There are therefore two systems of international protection. The CGRA handling asylum cases can, in an absolutely independent manner, determine whether a country is safe or not. Is there a list of safe countries? Yes, since the 2011 law in Belgium, there is a list of safe countries. These are, for example, the Balkan countries and India. Only seven countries are on the list. It's a very interesting instrument. The European Commission is working on a list of safe countries at European level, but discussions are still under way. This item is on the agenda of the European Council to be held tomorrow.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u70	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your answer. However, I would like to point out that the Royal Decree of 24 April 2015 updates the list of so-called safe countries, but without taking over any country names. It's an update, but it doesn't have a defined list. On the other hand, I think it would be time to intervene at European level because there are distortions. For example, Ireland recognizes only one safe country. The Czech Republic, for its part, recognizes 44. Other distortions exist, for example, for Luxembourg, Ukraine is a safe country, and not for Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u71	That concludes the oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u72	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 2 December 2015, I propose that the draft law amending the Law of 31 December 1983 on the reform of the institutions of the German-speaking Community be entered on the agenda of this afternoon's plenary session (No. 1478/1). In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 2 December 2015, I propose that you include in the agenda of this afternoon's plenary session the draft law amending the law of 31 December 1983 on institutional reforms for the German-speaking Community (No 1478/1). Mr Georges Gilkinet will report orally. Mr. Georges Gilkinet fera report oral. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u73	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u74	Mr President, I refer to my written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u75	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we urgently need this draft law. I will show that by means of two examples. I had prepared my speech first on the basis of an example from two years ago, which showed that political interference is not good for our public enterprises. Unfortunately, I can add an example from last week. The Flemish People's Movement has had custom stamps printed for ten years to send their own mail. That's what she did this year. On 23 November the design of the new stamp was approved by bpost and paid by the VVB. Two days later, bpost informed the Flemish People's Movement that they can no longer print that stamp. For ten years, I could, not anymore. My colleague Peter Dedecker, who is following up the dossier, but cannot be here today due to illness, will certainly ask questions about this to the Minister responsible. The revision will make such matters impossible. Let me give a second example. You will no doubt remember 7 November 2013, when Didier Bellens, the enfant terrible of PS and then CEO of Belgacom, made himself heard. I quote him: 'Di Rupo is like a little child who comes to ask his sintering classroom on 6 December'. I was not a Member of Parliament at the time, but I remember that all the newspapers were sufficient and that almost all the parties in the chair complained. It was outrageous, c'était scandaleux. My colleague Peter Dedecker was already standing here and, although it is difficult to associate our party with Mr Bellens, Peter Dedecker said that Mr Bellens was right in that regard. After all, what was going on? Belgacom had to borrow to pay a higher dividend to the Di Rupo government. That dividend of EUR 534 million was needed to close the gap in the budget. Belgacom was no more and no less than the government's milk cow. The result of this short-term vision of politics on the company we see today in Flanders. By focusing on the dividend, Belgacom could not invest enough and it had to watch patiently how in Flanders the young Telenet with large investments in the network systematically gained market share from the old monopolist Belgacom. Telenet has a market share of 80% in Flanders today on the residential broadband market, for which I would like to congratulate the company, while Proximus has a market share of less than 20%. Ladies and gentlemen, after these two examples, I would like to ask whether people really believe that politicians are the best managers of companies. That is why our group fully supports the draft law, a draft law announced in the government agreement in which we as a party have expressed our vision. Proximus and bpost must be able to develop for us in a highly competitive market, in the same way that other companies do in the same market, so a level playing field, and that is what is finally coming. The depoliticisation of companies in a liberalised market is not only logical to us, it is also necessary. We can see this from the example of Flanders and Telenet. The draft no longer maintains the fetish of a majority share for the government. That's a possibility. The government can use any revenue from sales to reduce public debt, which is the only way our party could use that revenue, and synergies with other companies from home and abroad can also be sought with a view to increasing growth to even more powerful companies. Who could be against this? I look forward to hearing the speeches and voting behaviour of the opposition. Finally, my fellow Members, during the discussion in committee, the railway companies were also mentioned. However, this draft law does not apply to this. Apparently, there is a sacred fear among some parties that SNCB would also be included. It seems to be their biggest nightmare, should SNCB follow the same route as Belgacom and bpost, in which the pressure of competition and the entry of private capital turned the old PTT and RTT into performing companies, on which we are rightly proud. It is apparently the nightmare of the opposition, that citizens and travellers, i.e. taxpayers, have an alternative in the event of strikes, with a small group shutting down the whole track. That's not our nightmare or anyone else's. For us, that's a dream and maybe it's a dream for everyone. A better service at sharper prices, we are certainly in favour of it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u76	Mr President, I would like to state very clearly what has just been said. Contrary to the government's repeated statements that no decision had yet been taken on the sale and privatization of bpost and Proximus, I have just heard our colleague from the N-VA speak very clearly. Indeed, it indicated that the decision had been made and that it would reduce the burden of debt. The masks have finally fallen. We can therefore salute his honesty.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u77	Mr President, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the text which was presented to us in committee in October concerns, for 90% of its content, the modernisation of two public companies, bpost and Proximus. The government wants to strengthen these two public companies so that they can play an equal role with their competitors in a hyper-competitive market, a reality that no one can ignore today. He thus shows pragmatism and common sense. As such, the bill before us at this time positions bpost and Proximus in a real level playing field by allowing them to create subsidiaries, take stakes, outsource, employ contract workers. Similarly, the good governance rules advocated by the OECD will be consolidated in this way. Finally, we will end the negative politicization of management bodies. Both are currently governed by a 1991 law. To deny that, since then, the society and markets in which these companies operate have changed is to hide the face. We now know the internet, e-mails, gsms, smartphones, connected objects and e-commerce. These are indisputable realities. That is why it is important to take action, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, and I thank you for presenting this text today. The objective is not only to modernise the companies concerned, but also to improve their management. They need to be adapted in order to maintain this quality public service and to promote the jobs of tomorrow. A company that does not invest or invests badly is a company that dies. A company that does not adapt to the world in which it operates is a condemned company. A company that does not adjust its management to its competitors is a business without a future. This is, of course, the opposite of the direction the government wants to take. While liberalization is well underway, it is essential to give bpost and Proximus the weapons to face the reality in which they evolve and remain the strong players they are today in their respective markets. Let us turn now to the remaining 10% of this proposed bill, which is indeed considering the possibility, Ms. Fonck, of...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u78	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u79	Yes, my colleague said what she said, I say what I say. That is an eventuality in this bill. You can do semantics. It is in this direction that we will vote today.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u80	Mr Foret, if I may, I shall pass the floor to Mrs Fonck.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u81	On the one hand, I have read the content of the bill and the statements of some members of the government, including the Prime Minister. But in the gallery here, just before you, the main party of the government, which makes the rain and the good weather, clearly announced that the will was to sell and it was not semantics. On the other hand, and here I am waiting for you, this is what we have been repeating for some time and we have not seen anything: where is the somewhat serious analysis of all the issues related to these files? When I hear some say that reselling bpost state interests and Proximus is magic for debt, I don't understand. It's obviously a one shot. It is not to take into account the reality and the return of the annual dividends that is being made today. To reappear today is clearly to do a negative operation. You have never been able to demonstrate anything on this yet important financial issue. I spoke on the financial side because your colleague from the majority, therefore from the N-VA, spoke about it just before. We will return to the other issues later in the debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u82	You are talking about 10% of the text, but it is certainly the most fundamental point about "this possibility of selling". This is the heart of the debate that we have already had in committee and that we will still have today. You say, "We'll see," "We don't know very well." This varies depending on the language, French or Dutch, depending on the party. As for you, you say everything is possible and everything is on the table. This is the heart of the debate, the problem of this bill. We don't know where we're going. I would like to have your opinion, the vision of the majority and the government with regard to what needs to be done. We're told here, "Let us do it," "We'll see." Admit that it is extremely complicated to position yourself when the debate is put in these terms.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u83	Mr. Foret, do you realize what you're saying? I quote: "We must safeguard this public service." These words are unworthy of a liberal! Remember, you're a member of the MR! You cannot say such things: "This public service must be safeguarded"! Take the example of the colleague, Mrs De Coninck, who, at least, makes it clear that we must take an example on Telenet, which has 80% of the market in Flanders. The Voka is happy and, if the Voka is happy, the N-VA is also happy. You have to take on what you're saying. In any case, this paradox must be noted. On the one hand, you are telling us this sentence, which I repeat one last time, "We must safeguard this public service". On the other hand, you tell us that there is also the option that it is no longer a public service. Don't you think this statement is a little paradoxical?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u84	Mr President, I would like to make it a little less sharp than my predecessor, but I do think it is important to know and I am going to ask the Deputy Prime Minister what the government's position is. Colleague, I assume you are speaking on behalf of your party. What are the criteria for your group, for the MR, for the Prime Minister's group, to say that that majority participation can be reduced from 50+1 to 25+1?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u85	Mr President, I cannot agree with my colleague, Mr Ecolo, who says that the problem is that we do not know where we are going. Mrs Inez De Coninck, our colleague from the N-VA, has just announced it! This situation is regrettable for the Deputy Prime Minister, who has been cautious and round in committee, allowing history to unfold. Mr Foret, you say today: "This is what I can say!" As you know, our country is governed by the N-VA, which makes the rain and the good weather and even prevents progress in terms of climate. Today, things have been said by Mrs. Inez De Coninck. Madam, thank you for the clarity and transparency of your remarks!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u86	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to respond. First of all, you have apparently heard something different from what I have explained. Apparently, you've heard that I would have suggested selling. However, that is not even my competence. I am a Member of Parliament. It's up to the government to decide on a sale. I have pointed out that this draft law makes it possible to sell part of those companies. For you, these companies are apparently a fetish, which must not be touched. Secondly, I have added that, if there were any sale, the decision would not lie with me but with the government, the decision will be taken after all kinds of economic analyses. If there were to be a sale of part of the shares of those companies, it would be important for our party to use the revenue from that sale to reduce the public debt.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u87	When it comes to the possibility, it is not necessarily a question of selling, but of going below 50% of the state's shareholding. The Deputy Prime Minister reminded him in committee, the fact is that bpost or Proximus could at some point be held by the state at less than 50% because they take stakes in another company where a capital increase occurs. It is therefore important to make this distinction properly. It is not about selling at all costs, it is about ensuring that bpost and Proximus can be in the right conditions to face a hyper-competitive market. I have made no further progress, either here or in committee. Finally, we have had a lot of intent trials in this commission. Here we are in a debate that is pragmatic and sensible, so that these companies we hold are dynamic, efficient and can face a hyper-competitive market. So we must not see contradictions where there are none. We're used to this little game at home, but please, let's move on!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u88	Mr Foret, this reflects the debates in committee. We are in pure ideology and, above all, caricature. We are told that this law is important because we must have common sense, because we must be pragmatic and modern. We're talking about the internet, the smartphones. This has nothing to do with the participation and role of the state in florets such as bpost and Proximus. For me, this is the fundamental question, and I will come back to it later. If we announce tomorrow to the 40,000 bpost and Proximus workers that the company has been sold in one night to any private partner or that there has been a drastic change in capital, will you tell them that it is a matter of common sense and pragmatism? This is totally insufficient as a justification. If we are in ideology and caricature, do not participate!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u89	Mr President, without going into a caricature, I would like to ask my question again. What is the limit for your group, what are the criteria to be met in order to reduce public interest? Can you give me an answer to that?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u90	First of all, I would like to give you the beacons, the guarantees in which you have to evolve and we will not sell, overnight, according to the good intuition of a minister. As a reminder, this is a deliberate decision in the Council of Ministers. This decision will be taken in a collegial manner at the government level and will be taken on board. The discussions are about whether or not to sell, because it may not come and we may not be Members when it is sold, if it is sold one day! There! I believe that a government and a parliament must be proactive and provide this framework for the day of possible implementation. The beacons are well integrated. The Belgian anchor is important and inserted in the texts, as is this notion of employment, growth and strategy in the evolution. So, new technologies are important, because these two societies are evolving in ever-changing worlds. In 1991, we didn't have the Internet, we didn't have social networks or e-commerce. The world is changing, borders are no longer physical, they are virtual. You know I didn't do ideology. I came to committee with pragmatic arguments. Let's move on! The Deputy Prime Minister will come back to explain the various elements, but for my group, these are very important beacons, because we do not want to do anything with these two Belgian flowers. For the rest, we must continue to do so. Thank you for your good listening, your questions that always allow us to raise the debate, Mr Devin. It's always a pleasure to debate with you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u91	Mr President, Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this bill is like this government, inspired by a 1980s trend ideology at all to the market. It despises the fate of workers, public service and democratic control. Before addressing the substance of the draft, I would like to dwell on our misunderstanding of the conditions under which the majority imposed on us the study of this text. While absolutely nothing justified it, the majority not only refused to ask experts about this project, but also refused to ask for their simple written opinion. This contempt for transparency and democratic debate is regrettable but is not an unprecedented fact. The 35,000 bpost and Proximus workers would, in our view, have deserved more consideration. However, a cynical honesty of the project will be recognized against them. There is no line in the project that claims that the proposed changes will significantly, or even somewhat, improve their fate. It's even the opposite. By allowing the use of subcontracting and self-employed persons without any limits, the government organises the deregulation of work within the company and the competition of workers, with the result that stable and quality jobs are reduced, and thus the levelling down of social status. Should it really be recalled that self-employed people, unlike workers, are not protected in the event of dismissal, are not entitled to a notice, do not enjoy the same protection in the event of sickness or unemployment? Some of these regressions add uncertainty. It has already been debated. Privatisation. If the project does not formally privatize public enterprises, it allows the government to do so on the basis of criteria that are too vague to be objective. In other words, tomorrow the government will be free to sell the majority shares of the state at any time. This insecurity suspended above the workers' heads can only undermine the social serenity of bpost and Proximus. One can imagine the bitterness of the bpost workers who have already made so much effort to accompany the strategic reorganization of their company. But this project does not concern only the workers of these two public companies. SNCB is not formally excluded from the scope of the project. And it is not for lack of having tried to clarify the text in this respect in committee. Despite the statements made by Minister Galant and Deputy Prime Minister De Croo, the text, in its Article 5, does indeed enable SNCB to be involved in these reforms inspired by outdated liberalism. Three successive amendments tabled by the opposition could have reassured SNCB staff. He wasn't. Today we are repositioning ours so that the government's speeches will finally be consistent with its actions. This project is the product of a purely liberal ideology, and not only because it puts workers in competition with each other. More generally, even outside of privatization, the bill enshrines these companies in a vision based on the law of the jungle, the law of the strongest, more distant than ever from the notions of general interest. From now on, only the law of the market will have to guide the action of public enterprises since they will no longer be accountable to citizens and their representatives. Finish the annual reports to Parliament or the audit by the Court of Auditors. No more control of the Minister of Budget. No longer the State's right of scrutiny in the actions of two institutions belonging to the community. Let me give you a very recent example. While the geopolitical context requires us to strengthen our ties with France, Proximus, for purely economic reasons and regardless of the political consequences, would have already decided to remove the French channel 24. Tomorrow, with your project, this decision will become unappealable. We are, therefore, witnessing a complete disengagement of the government from its own responsibilities. It is not acceptable that the fate of these large companies, owned by all Belgians, should be placed in the hands of managers without democratic legitimacy. These control mechanisms, destroyed by this project, ensured the legitimacy of the decisions taken by the managers. A control of bpost is all the more necessary since 80% of its turnover comes from activities in the public sector. And what about Proximus, whose telecommunications infrastructure extends all over the country and which has become a strategic national security issue, so much so that in 2013, Belgacom was the victim of international piracy. Today, however, more than ever, by removing formal and informal communication bridges with Proximus, the government is depriving itself of a major player to appreciate the security stakes of the Belgians of the 21st century. Already outside of any privatization, this irrational state accountability to satisfy a liberal doctrinary ambition is severely critical. But the ultimate goal of privatizing bpost and Proximus is not only in contradiction with principles of good governance, it is also an aberration in terms of facts and figures. It has been said, repeated, demonstrated, explained: today selling these successful public enterprises means a loss of about 300 million euros per year for the State. And beyond these figures, the sale of these companies is a fundamental economic mistake for our country's competitiveness. Currently, Proximus invests about 1 billion euros per year in our economy. However, such investments, as the executives of Proximus have reminded us, require a stable majority shareholder ready to accompany the company in cycles of several years. As for bpost, it is all the more in need of a stable majority shareholder as the postal sector is also in full change and is facing one of its greatest challenges with the decrease in paper mail and the phenomenal growth of postal parcels. These investments are all the more fundamental to the competitiveness of our economy as they accompany innovative technological sectors. So, Deputy Prime Minister, you are going to tell us that the decision to privatize Proximus and bpost is not yet made. We have an obligation to raise the issue here and today, and a fortiori with the statements of our colleague Mrs De Coninck. If this bill is passed, colleagues, today's vote will be the last opportunity for the nation's representatives to decide on the fate of these public companies. It is therefore for all these reasons that the Socialist Group and I will oppose the adoption of this text. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion, I would simply like to read three passages from the government's agreement that this evening will become promises destroyed by this bill. "The correlation between long-term business services and the performance of the public service mission, on the one hand, and the variable remuneration of managers, on the other, will be reinforced. (...) The CEO of each autonomous public enterprise will present annually in the parliamentary committee the operational and daily policy that has been followed, as well as its effects on society. (...) The appointment and dismissal of the managing director shall be carried out by the government after consultation of the board of directors and by royal decree deliberated in the Council of Ministers". These are three more commitments of the government that are buried today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u92	Mr President, this draft law is an important step for Proximus and bpost. In the implementation of the government agreement, the government will now act as a normal majority shareholder of a listed company and no longer as a mother-in-law who can deal with internal management. In addition, it is essential that we have also stressed this in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection that a level playing field is created for both companies as they have to compete against competitors who do not have to operate within the same strict straitjacket. In other words, the present design is a necessary condition for bpost and Proximus to continue to play an important role in the future, both in the postal and telecommunications markets, or under the same conditions as their competitors. Proximus and bpost are modern and performing companies within a competitive environment. With this design we give them the weapons to fight. All fellow Members who believe in a bright future for these two companies can only endorse this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u93	Mr President, Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the bill before us has three objectives: the removal of organizational constraints, the alignment of the way in which the management bodies of public enterprises operate with that of private enterprises and, finally, the possibility for the State to become a shareholder like another through the acquisition of holdings in certain public undertakings. The first two objectives are legitimate. Unfortunately, we have understood that they are only there to enable the third to be achieved: privatisation. Moreover, Minister, you have not contradicted this finding, since you have considered other assumptions of structural change. Much more than an eventuality, privatization therefore seems to be an unconvinced desire of this government, in any case of its liberal wing. For the CDH, adapting this bill without a serious and in-depth analysis certainly demonstrates a slightness and a lack of seriousness. It seems to us that you put the plow before the ox. Technical studies praised by you during the debates have never been made public. In addition, the requests for hearings by the opposition parties, as Mr Devin recalled, were rejected. The aim was to hear the main players, including Ms. Leroy, and to ensure that their statements were understood and accurate. Finally, the analysis of the financial impact and the impact on employment, as well as on citizens and the various sectors – whose print media – is sorely lacking. In my view, you want to pave the way for the privatisation of certain public enterprises, but you do so blindly or, at least, backwards, without measuring the consequences and bypassing the democratic debate. Indeed, once the draft was adopted, it would no longer be possible to intervene, since these companies would be able to change their shares by means of simple royal decrees. In view of the fact that we will not be able to express ourselves on this subject, I would like to point out that there seems to be no justification for privatization, both financially and politically, socially and economically. In this regard, I will take up the points raised by an analyst working at Fortis. According to him, "financially, the dividend's annual return is 5%, i.e. higher than Belgian debt rates. Politically, the transfer of a large Belgian company to a foreign shareholder would not be very popular. From an economic and even social point of view, State control over Proximus ensures employment." As far as the social aspect is concerned, I doubt that privatisation will raise the employment rate and create what has already been said "jobs, jobs, jobs". Privatisation would obviously lead to job losses both internally and among subcontractors. As a guide, Proximus employs more than 14,000 employees and at bpost, just for the distribution of newspapers, 3,000 jobs would be threatened. On the other hand, privatization would be an open door to large-scale relocations. As for the print media sector, which already suffers from new communication technologies, it now holds thanks to subscribers. In the absence of this principle of quality, there are great risks that it will be severely undermined. So I don't see any real winner in this case that looks more like a poker hit. The Belgian State loses its annual dividends, 490 million euros in 2014, in favour of a one shot of 8 to 9 billion euros. Citizens risk paying more for lower quality services and staff find themselves in an uncertain job situation. We're not in a rescue operation. It's all right. That too is pragmatism. Public enterprises are already demonstrating good governance. Why not continue this way while possibly improving what would affect their effectiveness? As they have stated, these companies need a stable shareholding, for example the State. Recently, the government commissioned three business banks as well as a consulting firm to assess the value of disinvestment potential in a range of companies, including Proximus and bpost. Is this really a coincidence? The experts obviously recommended that the government retain its participation. Deputy Prime Minister, you will tell me that this project does not sell Proximus and bpost but it still facilitates a possible sale. The debate is there. Rather than putting these public companies in the best position to do their job best, this government seems determined to play the risk card regardless of the services and the people. I fear that your ideological choices, which are probably based on short-term budgetary visions, will undermine the companies concerned and the public service missions. In these circumstances, my group does not subscribe to the adventure in which you want to take these companies. That is why we have tabled an amendment to delete the article which makes possible privatisation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u94	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this is an excellent draft ideological bill, certainly the third part. In my speech, of course, I will also focus on this. Of course, Minister, you will not be surprised that this draft law is not in line with my vision. I believe that its underlying vision is a purely neoliberal vision. As I said in committee, I have no problem with the full support of the Open Vld, the N-VA and the MR. I have been able to debate with you well in committee. I have also said that these are not my ideas, and you have tried to put forward your vision in a good debate. It is a pity that Mr Dedecker is not here, but I shall not dwell on that further. I did find that the arguments put forward by the N-VA Group during that debate, and also now, were far too revanchist. Everything's got to be on the shovel. Definitely anything that smells like government doesn't like the N-VA. I will not go back to Mr Dedecker's speech because he cannot defend himself, but also after the short speeches here, I think we should look at the added value for society, for businesses and so on on on this important issue. In short, I understand your views, even though I do not share them at all. You know that. It is good that we know from each other that we will never have the same vision on this. What I do not understand at all, and now I am looking at the colleagues from CD&V, is that after hearing the discussion in committee and after hearing the report, CD&V can agree to this draft. I don't get it. It has probably been said that a trophy should be given to Minister De Croo; that could be it. Trophy cabinets must be filled. In itself, that is a legitimate reason. The question is whether this should be done through such a fundamental design. That's the question I'm asking CD&V. I'm sorry for the expression, but if you give me this, you'll prove that you're in this dossier for bacon and beans. I shall return to what we think, because that is also important. The sp.a absolutely believes in strong, transparent public enterprises, which means that we must constantly modernise. Those who say in this Chamber or in committee that we are corny because we are defending the RTT system, I dare to demonstrate where and when I have defended it. The past shows that a government with socialists in the file of bpost has attracted a private partner to invest in that company. This happened in the hope that this company could grow despite a very difficult social climate. Compared to other countries, Belgium has succeeded in turning the postal company into a successful company. This is not the merit of politics, but of management and its vision. However, it is also a merit of the trade unions. Those who wish to deny this can, of course, do the same. However, at some point the trade unions sat down with the management. The company's future was so important to them that they thought that everyone needed to drink water. We then looked at how long-term business security could be created. Eventually, the employees joined the story. Sometimes this has led to social conflicts, but among other things the Georoute system ensures that bpost can survive today. The underlying idea is of a certain political importance, because all this could happen in a stable shareholdership. The majority shareholder provided the means and time to bring about the transition in the hope that the company could survive. In other countries, Sweden and Great Britain par excellence, this has not happened and the effects on the labour market and on the company itself are noticeable. That's what bothers me about this bill. Mr Foret has also said that the draft law before us represents a possible reduction in the public interest. Mr Van den Bergh also said in committee that this possibility should not be overstated. The Minister also referred to the Explanatory Memorandum, which mentions 25% + 1. In my opinion, it is extremely damaging to create a certain form of uncertainty in a company that is already suffering from a huge, and perhaps steady, reduction in the volume of letter mail and the transition to a parcel mail. So that bothers me. The N-VA is much clearer and says that we must do so. At least it's fair to say that here. A second element that bothers me as a Member of Parliament is the following. Mr Foret says that these criteria should then be considered afterwards by the government. But this majority gives a blank cheque to the government in the vote today..................................................................................................................................................................................................... The text clearly states that a royal decision taken by the Council of Ministers may determine when the reduction in the public interest of 50% + 1 may be reduced, with or without a minimum limit of 25% + 1. Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, from where does this broad delegation stand? The next question is why do you do that? This is a legitimate question, because if such a draft law is supported, then there should be an agenda or an objective hiding agenda in this case not pejorative. Indeed, we must have an objective in mind before we come up with a draft of this kind. When I look at the social added value that public enterprises can have, it is legitimate for me that these public enterprises exist. In that context, I am thinking of bpost. This week the Minister explained in committee the management contract, which also looked at the added value of postmen. By the way, my city council is very much looking at how we can support this. I am also thinking of Proximus, where there are many investments. Also thanks to the fact that there is a strong player like Telenet in Flanders, there is huge investment to achieve healthy competition between them. There are also committed projects such as PEP-NET, investments in and support of Child Focus and the like. When I look at the financial reason, and it is now the third or fourth time that I say that in this chair, I do not see its value. I asked a few months ago about the results of the investigation, the audit of the FPIM. In the meantime, I have read in the newspaper about the research into the value of all government participations. The report clearly states that there is no financial incentive to sell public participations, as dividends' revenues are higher than interest charges saved. In budgetary terms, this means that, where appropriate, the gap in the budget will be increased, which means that families will have to pay for it. I can explain again that calculation I made for Proximus and bpost. In my calculation, the value of the shares and the government interest of 53% is calculated on the value of the share at a price of 31 euros. After that, I checked the proceeds after the sale. I then checked the increase in the public debt and calculated the interest or income of the dividends. For Proximus, this resulted in a negative balance for the budget of about €92 million. I made exactly the same calculation for bpost, starting from the value of the shares, which is 5104 euros. This calculation resulted for the Treasury in a negative balance on sale of between EUR 70 and 75 million. In my view, these are important arguments for not making sales at all at the moment. I'm looking at the companies themselves now, which is also important. We were given the opportunity in committee to hear those responsible for both companies. I can only conclude that, and perhaps even if you were present at the hearings or read the report, the companies were absolutely not a asking party. The CEO and the Chairman of Proximus' Board of Directors stated clearly here that they want a stable shareholder and are not a requesting party to a reduction in the majority shareholding of the government. They mentioned names. The CEO warned against a scenario such as in France, where SFR was bought by Altice and where CEO Drahi actually applied the strategy of hit and run. Besides, the CFO has now switched to Proximus, because he didn't agree with the way that transition went. Before bpost, Mr Van Gerven was indeed more cautious during the hearing. However, he also underlined the importance of a stable majority shareholder, given the reduction of mail and the transition to packages. I have the following question. Why does the current government want to continue with this sale? I'll come to the level playing field. I agree, of course, with a number of provisions, as I said in committee. In the context of modernisation, we must always look at the arsenal that can be used to operate in that market. What I still do not understand is the limitation in language for advertising. For example, bpost may not even communicate in English. I have asked several questions about this. I find that a little out of date today. Tot slot, het social level playing field. I hear that a social level playing field will be a downsizing, so down. Mr Vice-Prime Minister, you rightly said in committee that Telenet also has a social dialogue which is going on as with all the other companies. Actually, that's not what I'm talking about, absolutely not. I have just looked over the wall, for example at the advice of the Dutch Inspectorate of Social Laws. In the reform of the postal sector ten years ago, we actually started working there with piecework, and we are actually going to consider that as a second or a third job. According to this report, the revenue from the distribution of the post comes on average at 40% of the minimum wage. We must be careful not to take full participation in the labour market downsize to a social level playing field with the provisions that the government will take. With regard to the reduction of wages for CEOs, we also regret that this is no longer possible. I would like to respond very briefly to the speeches made by the other Members. Mrs. De Coninck, you mentioned Telenet's market share. I think it is really important that there is certainly good competition in Flanders. However, I think that you are going a little short when you say that this is because Proximus was not able to invest enough in the past. The most important explanation for this is, in my opinion, the historic infrastructure, the cable, where there was a delay but, fortunately, there could be two fully-fledged companies because of strong investment. This is good for the economy in the short term but also in the long term, where, of course, the Internet and its carriers become much more important in the context of economic development. My question remains to what extent the different views of these parties can be reconciled. Mr Foret of the MR said that they would look at it. Mr Van den Bergh said in committee that this would be looked at when it was necessary. The Deputy Prime Minister said that the final deadline for this delegation power is 2018 and stated clearly that this would be considered within that period. We are actually on the verge of 2016. I have just heard Mr De Coninck's speech from the N-VA, which I, like a number of other fellow Members, interpret as: we want that to happen and force that to happen. The question here is: what is the government's position? What's the timing? Why do we need to continue with this today and forcefully? What's the project? Who in the government is right?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u95	Mr President, I would like to respond to what Mr Geerts said. I said the same thing as Mr Foret and Mrs Lijnen. I did not say that there should be a quick sale for us, but that the draft law before us, after its adoption, offers an opportunity to sell. I didn't say that the sale should be done as soon as possible. When I interrupted on my couch earlier, I said that any sale will have to be weighed on the basis of economic criteria. Two weeks ago, a study was published in the newspaper. You referred to that as well. You quoted an economic analysis, according to which one cannot sell at a loss. That seems to me to be the obvious thing. My question to your party is why you did not make the same analysis when you asked Belgacom to pay a higher dividend than it was worth.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u96	Mrs De Coninck, it is true that a higher dividend has been requested at some point. We shouldn't be getting carried away with that. That was in the context of a budget discussion. However, I have another question. Just now, in my brief explanatory statement, I was talking about the budget gap that you caused by reducing the interest in Proximus and bpost. That will cost more than 200 million euros. I wonder why you want to do that. Why do you want to put that additional burden back on the taxpayer? Can you answer that?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u97	Mr Geerts, I refer to my question just now. Again, we do not argue for a quick sale. It seems obvious to me that we are not selling at any price, and certainly not at any loss. The balance between income from dividends and income from total sales will have to be made by people who also consider all economic criteria.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u98	Mr President, I will conclude. Mrs. De Coninck, with what you're saying, you're actually backing down a little bit. You wanted to implement the power of change and make people pay EUR 200 million more. The MR and Open Vld say they'll check if that's necessary. CD&V has also said this in committee, and I assume that Mr Van den Bergh will repeat that. So my question remains as to why, apart from the first two shutters with which I have no problem, you will approve the third hatch. We are on the eve of 2016. The FPIM advises the government not to do it because it would be unwise. I hear everyone saying they shouldn't. Then why will you approve it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u99	Mr President, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I will give you a confidence: this is the first time that I have had the pleasure of speaking in the gallery on behalf of my group, Ecolo-Groen, in order to defend our position on a government bill. As at the very first time, I was full of enthusiasm given the importance of the stakes: the future of two Belgian industrial jewels, bpost and Proximus, in which the State still plays a leading role as a majority shareholder, with as a corollary, just as crucial, the future of the 39,870 people who work for these two groups, the quality of their employment and the sustainability of their tools and their working conditions. As at the very first time, I was therefore anxious but also determined to get 100 % involved in lively debates, given our respective initial assumptions, but exciting, since it was a matter of determining a vision for the future regarding the place of the State among major Belgian economic actors. As at the very first time, the result is always mixed, with some positive points and many improvements to be made for the future. Minister, in this case, I must admit that the balance is particularly negative and that you have, in a way, ruined this first time. Everything started very badly in committee, with a categorical refusal by the majority to conduct hearings or to resort to written opinions, even in the context of a tight timing. The only justification of the majority colleagues was that we had already received – and therefore fairly heard – the unions on the subject. Beyond a clear lack of consideration for workers' representatives – I would remind you that we are talking about almost 40,000 employees – this meant that it was impossible for us to hear from specialists in the telecoms sector, from specialists in the postal sector, from professors able to shed light on the considerable impact that privatization would have on the market and prices, or from associations representing the interests of consumers. Not to mention the management of bpost or Proximus, whose strategic five-year vision of their company could have been useful to us, certainly in view of the statements of the CEO of Proximus, advocating a strong, stable shareholdership, implicit reference to the current situation. No, absolutely no outsider could find thanks in the eyes of the parties of the majority. This is regrettable because it inevitably deteriorates the quality of the democratic debate by damaging the image of this parliament which votes texts in the Hussard without consulting experts on the ground. [[It's like we're stuck in a glass tower, away from the realities of our fellow citizens.]] On the substance of the general discussion, disappointment was also at the meeting with the turn taken by the speakers and their successive interventions. Unpacking, verbal and ideological games and therefore, for the most part, sterile, with the N-VA/MR duo at the head of the pack in turn invoking modernity, pragmatism, new technologies, international competition, common sense, the rejection of structures of companies of the past granting "social jobs", to justify a disengagement of the state in bpost and Proximus. All those who did not dare to share this vision were immediately taxed as pastors, nostalgic of a past and idealizing outdated economic models. In short, it was I who felt like I was going back to the last century with these exchanges worthy of a duel between Ronald Reagan and Che Guevara, completely missing out on the stakes at hand. For us environmentalists, the state must assume an important role in the economic sphere, a stabilizing role, an investor role, an innovative role, in short, an entrepreneurial role, as described with talent by an economist whom I would have wished to invite to our hearings in committee and which I had the opportunity to listen to last week, Mariana Mazzucato, author of the book L'État entrepreneur. In a few words, Mrs Mazzucato starts from the assumption that the market alone never has any choice and that it will therefore never support any particular sector, given that its main interest is the profit generated in the short term. The choices made by States to invest and support entire sectors, in partnership with the private sector, are therefore crucial for the sustainable development of our economy. Finally, Mrs Mazzucato also shows that none of the recent major technological advances (Internet, smartphones, renewable energies, biotechnology, nanotechnologies) has been made without a massive investment by the state. Dear colleagues of the majority, without the state and its large-scale intervention, today you would not have iPhone in your pocket, nor computer in front of you, nor tablet! Be sure and thank the State for that! Moreover, investments and the importance of the State do not mean the control and politicization of the management bodies of enterprises. For this reason, the Ecolo-Groen Group supported the articles of the bill related to governance reform and depoliticization. Let me now turn to the bill on these components a little more in detail and part by part. With regard to the first part of what is called the level playing field, in other words the ability to evolve on equal terms with private competitors at international level, there are certain aspects that we consider logical to adapt, such as the creation of subsidiaries, participation in other companies. In terms of lifting restrictions on the employment of subcontractors, however, we have expressed serious reservations about the authorization to generalize contractual recruitment. Although this is partly in line with the practice on the ground, the lack of benchmarks in the proposed text makes us concerned about the consequences with regard to the quality of paid employment at bpost and Proximus. The safeguards against the precariousness of wage-earning work in these still state-owned companies are in fact totally inadequate in our view. The text also specifies that the measures related to level playing field currently apply only to bpost and Proximus, but I quote the text: "This new chapter will apply in the future to other autonomous public undertakings which, for at least two consecutive years, generate 75% of annual turnover in activities open to competition". From then on, a royal decree deliberated in the Council of Ministers sets the date on which the undertaking concerned will fall under this chapter. In other words, Mr Minister, you are clearly targeting SNCB, since Belgocontrol, and here you said in committee, is not a factor. By simple royal decree, therefore, if the condition of 75% of turnover is met, the Council of Ministers may decide that the lifting of restrictions on the employment of subcontractors and independents will be completely lifted, also at SNCB. This represents for us, environmentalists, a green line not to be crossed because we do not consider SNCB to be a company like any other, which we can simply assess by talking about ratios, returns on committed capital, profitability on equity or other. In our view, SNCB is primarily the provider of a fundamental public service for the benefit of all our citizens. Such a function requires a long-term vision well beyond the level playing fields of the market and international competition. We have therefore, together with my colleague Stefaan Van Hecke, tabled an amendment to remove from the text those provisions concerning SNCB, an amendment rejected by the majority, which confirms that SNCB is therefore in your viewer. The second part of your project is about governance reform and depoliticization. The text proposes, in particular, that it be the general meeting of the company and not directly the government that appoints the directors, and that the board of directors appoint its own president and the CEO of the company instead of the government, as is the case today. We believe that these objectives of better governance, better transparency and, above all, depoliticization are in the right direction. My Ecolo-Groen Group has therefore supported this aspect, Article 11, in committee. In fact, we were the only opposition force to have done so. We would even have liked to go further by proposing that it be explicitly on the proposal of the board of directors that the general meeting appoint the directors, in order to avoid some minority shareholders actually exercising almost total control over the general meeting. Mr Minister, I was also surprised at the fact that you made a last highly politicized appointment to the Proximus Board of Directors last September, that of Mr Karel De Gucht, which, you will excuse me, seems to me to be only a formal part-party re-assignment, especially since you have not given any details on the recruitment or selection procedure that led to this decision. The last part of the project, by far the most indigestible, allows the state's participation in Proximus and bpost to fall below the 50% threshold by simple royal decree and without any lower limit. In other words, this text allows the government to potentially sell the entire state shareholdings in these two companies, overnight, without going back to parliament and without having to debate the appropriateness of such an operation. This is the worst in our eyes! This bill avoids any debate as to whether or not to sell the shares of the state. Up to what threshold? More fundamentally, what is the government's vision for these public enterprises? In fact, Minister, you're just asking us for a blank cheque that translates into a real hold-up of democratic debate. Indeed, we have had no debate on the considerable impact that a potential privatisation of bpost or Proximus could have on a range of areas: the future of the 40,000 workers, the public service tasks of these companies, the revenues of the State, since the dividend ratio is now well above the cost of debt, the collateral effects on the Belgian telecommunications and bpost sector or the impact on consumers. On many occasions, I asked you about your vision, your plan for these major public actors in our economy or the type of partnership with which you may want to engage. What shareholding are you considering? Should the state keep a 25 per cent blocking minority? Do you want to increase capital? It was also an option that you yourself emphasized during the committee debates to make potential acquisitions. All these legitimate questions therefore remained dead letter. You simply replied that all the options were possible and that no scenario was preferred at this stage because, I quote: "I don't have a crystal ball". But neither will we, minister, and that is precisely why we will oppose this bill. Making decisions without visibility, without a specific plan of action is simply not serious and is a mistake, whether for the business world or for the political world. Minister, you are asking us to follow you blindfolded, on an unknown path, with your crystal ball in your hands. I'm sorry, but my band is not ready to play colin-maillard with you on the back of 40,000 bpost and Proximus workers. We will therefore vote against this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u100	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like first of all to welcome Mrs Inez De Coninck's frankness with regard to the government's objectives, even if she wanted to correct her points later. The desire to privatize the public undertakings concerned was felt, as well as the SNCB, since it stated that, once privatized, SNCB would function much better. I would then like to reiterate the purpose of SNCB. At one time, the railway was private and the trains were not rolling, the companies were bankrupt. It is therefore the bankruptcy of private management that is at the origin of the creation of SNCB. One could also take the example of banks. I recall Mr Reynders' comments on the Fortis case that the State was not intended to remain indefinitely in the bank's capital. We see what happened to Fortis, which was ultimately the result of the privatisation of the CGER, which operated in a public manner for 130 years without ever having encountered any problem. It was enough to privatize this bank, after ten years of private management, to face a crisis that is still being paid for today. There is no need to remind you of the sad episodes of Fortis's near-bankruptcy, which explains why public finances are still being undermined today. What I would like to say to you is that privatisation is not only, even if it is planned, to privatize all the capital of the company, but also to impose private management of these companies. That's what we see, that's what's already achieved. Finally, Minister, what you are doing is deepening a process that has been under way for several years. You recognize that this is the logic. We are not going to say who is responsible, but it is true that it is not necessarily only the Liberals. Let's admit you want to add another layer! You're talking about "modernizing." I'm going to translate that term, because sometimes it's useful to translate things. There are language translations, but political translations too are sometimes useful. "Modernize," I see three things. It is first of all to break working conditions by allowing the engagement of contractors, independents and subcontractors. Secondly, it is also a preparation for pure and simple privatisation. Thirdly, it means enabling these companies to operate as private companies, including in terms of executive remuneration. To see the process you are going to deepen, it is useful to see what has already been done, with what consequences. I'll take the example of bpost. At bpost, we see that finally, the public service, the service to the public has deteriorated. Working conditions have deteriorated sharply. Employment has deteriorated sharply. On the other hand, profits, profitability, have been revised upwards. A few figures: at the employment level, bpost staff increased from 46 000 workers in 1989 to 27 000 in 2014. A decrease of 20,000 jobs. "Jobs, jobs, jobs." 20,000 fewer jobs. 40% of staff. Productivity, on the other hand, rose from €53 000 per full-time equivalent to €100 000, but with a very sharp deterioration in working conditions. In terms of service to the public, the number of post offices has been halved. We've grown from 1,342 to 676 offices. The price of the stamp is among the highest in Europe. On the other hand, as I said, profitability has exploded. The Danish post office and HVAC benefited greatly. There are several studies about working conditions that have deteriorated. A VUB study showed that, especially with Georoute, the workload was much heavier for workers. I would add that there is also the multiplication of the statutes. Since 2000, contrary to the law, bpost has only engaged contractual factors. At this level, Minister, you have shown inventiveness at the level of vocabulary, as you have stated that bpost is involved in a dynamic interpretation of the law. As far as I'm concerned, I'll say bpost had illegal practices. We're with each other, we can say that. In fact, a trial on this subject is under way. After that, there were other substatuts such as the auxiliary factor. But that was not enough, it had to go even further. This is how we now open the door to independents and subcontractors. We have figures on the hourly cost of these different statutes. Thus, the hourly cost of the statutory conventional postal worker amounts to 28 euros, that of the bpost contractual worker amounts to 25 euros, that of the bpost auxiliary distributor amounts to 19 euros and that of the self-employed person to 12 euros.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u101	Mr Van Hees, I hear you saying that we cannot open the door to subcontractors. Let me give you an example from life as it is. Our municipality has long had its postal services provided by bpost. Each year, a new contract is issued for this purpose. This year the bids from the Flemish Post were cheaper and for that reason we decided to work with the Flemish Post from now on. Now it turns out that the Flemish Post works with a subcontractor and that subcontractor is bpost. So I'm paying less now, but our city leaflets are actually being distributed by the same company. If I work directly with bpost, I have to pay more than when I actually let the market play. I don't know if that was your intention when you said that contracts shouldn't be outsourced to subcontractors. This can lead to surprising results for both public and other companies.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u102	I have come with fairly clear figures, which show that subcontractors and self-employed people are less well paid. On the other hand, you state that this allows for lower rates. However, I have indicated to you that the price of stamps in Belgium is one of the highest. It shows that working conditions are being degraded and that service to the public is being reduced by increasing the cost to users. Paradoxically enough, Minister, you want to drastically reduce the salaries of a large part of the staff while another category can receive higher salaries, namely managers and CEOs. You had, moreover, already defended this position in the past. About Johnny Thijs, you said that he had done a very good job as general manager of La Poste and added: "If you want to attract the best managers, you have to pay them well." In this regard, I will take the example of Fortis. We found a manager so good that he was paying four million euros to run this bank. When asked what justified his salary, he replied: "It's a bit like Justine Henin, when you have exceptional qualities, you're entitled to exceptional remuneration." That was in 2007. In 2008, its management was so good that Fortis found himself on the brink of the abyss, so much so that the state had to intervene to save it. These CEOs are heavily paid to bring a higher profit to shareholders, to the detriment of staff and users. It is precisely because this leader reduces the wage bill that he is generously paid. In conclusion, I will not be surprised by the fact that unfortunately we will not be able to vote in favour of this bill. I read the disappointment on the face of Mr. Minister... I will finally quote a trade unionist who recently told me the following sentence, which I believe is essential: "The quality and well-funded public services are the wealth of those who were born without wealth. This is a modern public service, capable of fulfilling this role of service to the community."
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u103	In fact, very few questions have been asked to the government. It was mainly a debate between Members, which is always nice to see, but which is not very motivating for me as I do not have to answer certain questions. I have the impression that some of us are having a debate here in the 1990s. In the meantime, it is the 21st century, and it is clear that the private sector has its role, that the public sector has its role, and that a number of sectors in Europe are replaced by the private sector. I have heard a lot here about the interests of workers and trade unions. That's all very important. But I haven't heard much about the client's interests. Hardly anyone's talked about what's good for the customer. One makes it seem that a private company can never mean well with its customers. I think that's weird. Perhaps you should ask Telenet and the other companies operating in these sectors. Perhaps you should ask their customers if they have the impression that they are being treated badly. What this debate is about is a difference of vision. The opposition doesn't believe in opportunities. The opposition believes in limitations. You want laws that limit as much as possible what public enterprises can do, while we believe that we in today's economy should ensure that these public companies receive oxygen so that they can arm themselves, and that we give them the best chance of survival in a sector that is evolving at an extremely rapid rate. Mr Geerts, you asked me what the government's position is on one particular element of the law. There are three major elements in this law. Firstly, there is the governance of these companies. Secondly, there are the rules of corporate governance, which are very important, but no one has talked about it. On the third element we are very clear, it is an eventuality. It's a possibility. So far, one possibility has always been mentioned, namely that the government would decide to sell some. That's a possibility. There are other possibilities. Today it often happens that companies make acquisitions based on their shares. Today neither of the two companies can do that because they are completely blocked in this respect. You say this is ideological. It's absolutely not ideological. I am pleased to note that certain members of the opposition also consider that this is not ideological. I just want to quote one quote from La Libre Belgique of 12 January 2013: "Je nübai pas de blockage idéologique à ce sujet." I don't mean to keep the 51%. This is from an interview with Paul Magnette from 2013, then chairman of the PS. I am glad to see that there are a number of people who are now in the 21st century and no longer in the 1990s.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u104	Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive reply. In your reply, you did not consider the interest of the customer. If we compare the figures on customer satisfaction at Proximus and bpost today with the figures for the last ten years, it appears that customer satisfaction has been at a fairly high level in the last five years. Compared to other operators abroad, there are few complaints and the satisfaction is very high. There is no problem here. So do not argue that we should do so in order to increase customer satisfaction. The reports of the ombudsmen from among others the BIPT do not reveal any problems, so that cannot be an argument. I have just asked what the arguments are. I said that the FPIM study showed that it cannot be a financial argument. I didn't talk about customer satisfaction because I didn't see a problem there. I keep wondering what the need for this movement is. You say that the opposition does not believe in possibilities, but only in limitations. The statements, including those made by members of your majority, today and in committee show that they do not need to do so. Finally, I would like to respond briefly to Mr De Wit's example of the distribution of mail. The reality is that, in the context of a public tender, bpost is legally obliged to bus more rural parts of municipalities, in this case for the Flemish Post.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u105	Minister, thank you for your answers and comments. We are not going to repeat all the arguments here, but it is still a bit caricatural to say that the opposition lives in the 1980s and is in favour of a model of state enterprise as it was in the past where everything was frozen and sclerotic. It is not because one defends an investor state and supports companies and industrial flowers that one is in favour of a vision of the beginning of the twentieth century. At this level, we must also be innovative in relation to the role of the State. The fundamental problem for us is that tomorrow there will be no debate on the future of public participation in bpost and Proximus. You have not given a clear answer to this question. Why don't you allow a parliamentary debate in a month, a year, ten years? You said it yourself, you don't know any more about timing. Today, we cannot debate it. Without going back to all the elements, basically, it's problematic.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u106	Deputy Prime Minister, we have been able to debate at length. For this reason, we are not going to prolong the debate by restating the questions again, knowing that we do not share the same view at all. You're saying we didn't talk about the customers. In fact, we did not talk about citizens. We are talking about the general interest. You say there will be no more rules or limits. We realize that we are going towards services with variable geometry and with a different price depending on where we live. This equal treatment is violated. You're talking about two companies, bpost and Proximus. They are companies whose customers, the citizens, have the best possible appreciation. You've seen the bpost satisfaction charts. We can only rejoice. As for Proximus, who today can say that Proximus does not yield substantial benefits? Who can say that bpost and Proximus do not represent tens of thousands of jobs? I'm ready to date you in two years' time, in four years' time – I don't know how long we'll stay here. But sincerely, we can take date. Then we will see what is really happening. I put the pole on you. I asked you once, twice, three times the question. Why didn't you bother getting the SNCB out of this? So that there is not this concern that will haunt tens of thousands of workers tomorrow at SNCB. Finally, there is a fundamental difference between you, me and a few in this House. You have some idea of state enterprises, of the state, of public services. It's yours. I must be able to recognize that idea. But sincerely, when we see the job we are doing, having such a bad image of the man, of the politician to say that "without politics, everything is going much better", is to offend all of us, I think.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u107	Minister, I have heard about the negative impact on workers, but not the impact on clients. First of all, I take it from what you say that, indeed, for the workers, it is not going to be pretty, that the social damage is going to be significant. Obviously, the workers are not within your scope of concern. You're saying we didn't talk about the customers. Anyway, I told you about it. I told you that at bpost there is an extraordinary deterioration in working conditions. The process you want to deepen has already made the conditions impossible for the workers. It also dismantled the public service and reduced the possibility for customers to have a public service. I'd rather talk about users than customers. In any case, the price of the stamp is among the highest in Europe. Many post offices have been abolished, etc. There's a dismantling of the public service. This makes sense, because when private shareholders want to make profit, as is the case with private bpost shareholders, they necessarily try to find that profit wherever it is possible to find it. It can be found both by reducing service to users and by degrading working conditions or wages for workers. Everything is good to increase this profit, including the deterioration of the public service, from service to the public. Does this mean that, in the private sector, everything is perfect for customers? Can we say that those of private banks, such as Fortis, are satisfied? Can we say that those of Volkswagen, who bought cars equipped with spy software, are happy? Can we say that those in Electrabel, whose nuclear power plants fail every six months, are happy? No, I don't think so. The reason for this is that this search for profit affects both users and staff.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u108	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? ) The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u109	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1287/5) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1287/5) The draft law has 20 articles. The bill has 20 clauses.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u110	• 7 - Karine Lalieux cs (1287/2)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u111	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and articles that have been tabled and on the whole will take place later. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and the reserved articles as well as on the whole will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u112	Sustained: the vote on the amendments and Rules 5, 6, 8, 11, 12. Article adopted by article: Articles 1 to 4, 7, 9, 10, 13 to 20.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u113	******
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u114	Without report Not related
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u115	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u116	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1355/3) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1355/3) The draft law has 12 articles. The bill has 12 clauses. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u117	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u118	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur, Mr Crusnière, referred to the written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u119	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1390/4) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1390/4) The title was amended by the Committee in the draft Law amending Articles 419, (i), (iii), 420 and 432, § 3 of the Programme Act of 27 December 2004'. The title has been amended by the committee in draft law amending Articles 419(i), (iii), 420 and 432, § 3 of the Programme Law of 27 December 2004". The draft law contains 5 articles. The bill has five articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u120	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u121	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mr Stéphane Crusnière, rapporteur, referred to his written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u122	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we have already had the opportunity to say this when we rejected a similar treaty with Central America: my group wants decent work, human rights and social and environmental standards to be clearly at the heart of our diplomatic and commercial relations. This time again, however, we are faced with a purely commercial agreement, which deliberately closes our eyes to the human rights situation and the manifest non-compliance with social and environmental standards prevailing in these countries. I have been able to meet many Belgian NGOs and local Colombian and Peruvian actors, who have all asked me the same thing: not to ratify this agreement, which, in their view, will amplify the inequalities and violations of rights that already prevail today. To avoid this, I have consulted a great deal on these two countries and on our economic relations. Unfortunately, the finding is unappealable. In Colombia, today, violence against trade unionists, as well as against other social actors, continues, as many international reports attest. These reports note the enormous responsibility of paramilitaries, guerrillas, criminal gangs and State agents for anti-union violence. In 2013 alone, 26 trade unionists were murdered. In this respect, one can only deplore the rate of impunity: 90 per cent on the murders of trade unionists for all these crimes, a violence which, alas, is not limited to these assassinations, since freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining are also largely undermined. The problem around the land is also a major problem and a source of violence and intimidation, as in Peru. In that country, repression of social protest, particularly on the issue of mines, was on the rise. The Inter-American Commission on Human Rights and the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights had described the current situation in that country as a setback, including several laws criminalizing human rights defenders and violent repression of peaceful demonstrations. For both countries, trade unions and social movements deplore the asymmetric nature of this agreement. It will reduce their country's tax revenues and create great uncertainty about access to natural resources, land grabbing, the re-primacy of their economies, not to mention issues related to pollution, deforestation or access to drinking water. Money laundering and financial instability are other sources of concern. In short, there is no guarantee of interest to local people by ratifying this agreement. There is no guarantee that social protection, decent work, human rights, social and environmental standards will be strengthened or even encouraged. The agreement does not provide for any control or sanction mechanisms to ensure this. It is above all, as its name indicates, a trade agreement. One point, that's all! Faced with these legitimate concerns, these questions, the response of the Foreign Minister leaves me somewhat dreamy or even perplexed, a bit like a simple "Circulate, there is nothing to see!" However, this was without counting on a certain reluctance within the majority. Minister Reynders therefore proposed to postpone the debate in committee on this draft, after writing a note. In this note, we are proudly announced that we have entrusted the administration with preparing an annual general report, reflecting the evolution of Belgium's relations with the countries with which it will conclude a free trade agreement and/or an investment protection agreement. The first such report, which also includes Colombia and Peru, will be published in the first quarter of 2016, while this agreement already applies on a temporary basis. The proposal is therefore attractive and visibly convincing enough for my colleagues, but as far as I am concerned it is largely insufficient. The request made by some of us, the majority and the opposition, was to be able to assess whether this free trade agreement can actually provide real economic, social, environmental and democratic added value for our country and the signatory partner countries. For my colleague Miller, that always seems self-evident. A priori, it did not seem insurmountable to him to demonstrate it in a somewhat scientific way. But here, Mr. Reynders' proposal does not provide any response in the context of this bill's consideration, since he does not commit himself to tabling a first report until this agreement is ratified by this House. I repeat, the exercise is interesting, but I do not see how it allows us today to comment on the supposed benefits of this agreement. Above all, it would have been necessary to carry out a thorough assessment of an expected pact in order to assess the risks, but also the potential opportunities. In this way, we could have made an informed decision. Unfortunately, we are offered to buy a cat in a bag. We will vote first; for the consequences, we will see then. However, as soon as this text has been voted on, we will no longer be able to go back – even if negative impacts were to be noted. Ladies and gentlemen, I would remind you that if we were to amend this agreement a posteriori, for example in the light of the progress report announced by Minister Reynders, this amendment could only be made with the consent of the twenty-eight Member States. In other words, mission impossible! For my group, that is unacceptable. This is by no means a serious and responsible job. We could and should have done otherwise, by producing an ex ante impact assessment of this trade agreement in order to equip ourselves with all the tools that help us to judge to the best of the relevance of its ratification. We could have waited for Mr Reynders' first progress report for spring 2016 before taking a decision. But nothing did. Even this constructive proposal was swept away by the majority, including the CD&V, which seemed to feel some remorse. Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, you will not be able to say that you did not know. Many of us have alerted you to the consequences of this agreement. Nevertheless, many of you will not take these elements into account at the time of the vote. My group and I prefer, in any case, to make the choice of a more just, more egalitarian and more supportive world. That is why we will forcefully reject this agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u123	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, relations between the European Union, Colombia and Peru were based, until this agreement, on a framework cooperation agreement signed with the Andean Community of Nations on 23 April 1993. This text, while of course trying to give impetus to trade relations, has already reserved – I stress – an important place for the protection of human rights and respect for democratic principles. As a result, EUR 135 million was allocated by the European Union to Peru for the period 2007-2013, in particular for State modernisation, good governance and social inclusion. In order to deepen these relations, negotiations began in 2007 with a view to concluding a trade agreement between the European Union and the Andean Community of Nations. In the absence of consensus, these negotiations continued with Peru and Colombia and concluded at the technical level in May 2010. The text of the trade agreement was then initialled in March 2011. We know that Peru has interesting economic elements, but this country remains highly dependent on the Chinese economy. The informal economy, the environment, the poverty that affects almost a quarter of the population, the instability of government and the challenges of drug trafficking are of course worrying and we are as concerned as you, Mrs Grovonius. Colombia is largely dependent on the prices of energy raw materials. It is also sadly affected by drug trafficking, social inequalities, one feeding the other and vice versa. Colombia's image has long been associated with the civil war against guerrillas and more specifically with the FARC. However, a peace and reconciliation process was under way and should bring Colombia into a new phase.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u124	Mr Miller, I hear you explain the emergence of drug trafficking by the social problems present in Colombia, but you are forgetting a phenomenon that is essential to the work in Colombia, which is land grabbing. The fact that today farmers who are embarking on the cultivation of coca have been uprooted from the regions of origin because Colombian and also European and American societies invest in land and relegate peasants to less efficient and interesting portions of land and therefore cultivate coca. The basis of the social problems that explain the emergence of the FARC - communists who mobilize the social distress in which these farmers find themselves - but also the coca are not only related to social problems. The latter are linked to the uprooting of the peasants. If you do not solve the problem of the uprooting of the peasants by giving them land, then you will not solve the problem of the coca, nor the problem of the emergence of a communist guerrilla which, of course, derails these uprooted populations.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u125	Mr Hellings, you are insisting on an important point. I don't deny it. But that is precisely why I think it is absolutely necessary to support this Treaty. Building on the European Union and the importance of markets with the European Union, improvements can be made. I'm continuing my reasoning. For the time being, there is a process of peace and reconciliation that will hopefully allow Colombia to enter a new phase in its history. A phase that the population expects and hopes for. It is, in my opinion, a lack of courage to reject, of course, the idea of a treaty simply on the basis of not ideological considerations – I also have ideological considerations that I respect; it was therefore not pejorative on my part – but rather on the basis of analyses. It is a lack of courage and voluntarism. It is a little too simple to play the beautiful soul, saying that this type of treaty is not appropriate because, in these countries, there is no social, trade union or sufficient protection for women, etc. We prefer to develop treaties that push for the advancement of these populations. This is our vision of globalization.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u126	Mr Miller, Mrs Grovonius wishes to speak.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u127	I should have gone to the gallery, Mrs. Grovonius. I'd have seen you better!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u128	Mr President, Mr Miller, you see, the power of flowers has a certain efficiency! Mr. Miller, I'm not asking for any better than to rely on facts. What I have been asking you from the beginning is to present me with studies, figures and scientifically documented facts that demonstrate to me that by signing such agreements, we will be able to bring Colombia and Peru to a much more comfortable situation in every respect. That's what I'm asking. I'm not asking for any better. I don't want to stick to ideology. On the other hand, as far as you are concerned, you are guided by the basic ideological principle that this type of agreement necessarily improves well-being. I have no difficulty in this. Demonstrate the opposite to me! I would be very happy to be able to discuss a text and to vote on it with full knowledge, which is not the case today.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u129	That is why, Madam, our group welcomes the proposal made by our Foreign Minister. Why? Because it has committed itself to producing, at the beginning of each year, a report which will contain an assessment of the 'human rights' component, in the broad sense of the term, within the countries with which we have concluded free trade agreements. You are asking for some kind of evaluation of an agreement that will only be voted on today! I know, Mr. Hellings, that you're going to tell me that it's already applicable, etc. What we are interested in is to move on to the ratification of this text, so that it can be fully developed and monitored in accordance with the standards of the European Union.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u130	Mr Miller, how can you convince me to vote today?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u131	I told you, it is only a kind of faith in the benefits of liberal trade policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u132	I understand that!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u133	That's why I'm a Liberal! In my view, the countries that deal with each other at a commercial level have a more enviable standard of living, development and security than the people who live in territories that have not signed such agreements.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u134	This remains to be demonstrated! And I wouldn't ask for you to demonstrate it in a scientific way. What you are proposing to us today is to vote on an agreement that is already in force. You then tell us that we will examine the consequences of this agreement in five months' time. This is completely irresponsible, Mr. Miller!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u135	I ask that we vote on a text from the moment when the Foreign Minister has made the excellent proposal that we should be able to assess the development of the human rights situation in these countries after some time. How do you want a text to be evaluated if it has not yet been voted on?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u136	Evaluations of an ex ante pact exist. This is done all the time for a lot of projects and it can also be done for agreements. Moreover, it is already in force, so we could already assess its impact today.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u137	Mr Miller, I'm going to bounce back on what you said about your faith in international trade to improve the well-being of both the North and the South. There is a precedent, it is the free trade agreement between the United States and Colombia. Did the Colombian people live better as a result of the free trade agreement? What has been seen in the case of the free trade agreement between this major trading partner, the United States, which is comparable in strength and power to the European market, and Colombia? There has been a growing phenomenon of latifundia (large landowners). So there was land grabbing. There have been massive investments in mining areas, where farmers who once occupied the land have been relegated to the borders of Colombia before becoming open-pit mines, with the ecological and economic consequences that we know. There's a precedent. Free trade agreements do not bring welfare to Colombian farmers, except perhaps for American or European shareholders. On the contrary, we forced them to burn their seeds because they were not validated. As I explained to you at length in committee, I am not going to go back to this episode. This is the consequence of free trade for Colombians, Mr. Miller.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u138	Mr President, I will not be able to convince Mrs Grovonius and she will not be able to convince me. As for Mr Hellings, he knows how much we share the concerns he has raised. I will answer you briefly, Mr Hellings, so that we do not continue this confrontation of ideas which will not convince us either. What we are talking about today is not an agreement between the United States and Colombia, Mr Hellings. I am a European and have a deep faith in the values of the European Union. When there is a trade treaty to be carried out by the European Union, I do indeed hope that the values that are on the front of the European Union will also be defended at the level of the treaties that the European Union can accept and implement. It is therefore a major axis of cooperation with the European Union. Article 1 of the Agreement contains a reference to democratic principles and fundamental human rights allowing the suspension of the Agreement in the event of non-compliance with human rights by one of the parties. The Union is also very explicit about the obligation of both countries to implement the eight core conventions of the International Labour Organisation. It's not nothing anyway. Having a treaty will allow this verification. I repeat, our minister has committed to produce a report at the beginning of each year that will include an assessment of the human rights component in the broad sense within the countries with which we have concluded or will conclude free trade agreements. The MR Group very much welcomes this way of working. Ladies and gentlemen, I am convinced that this free trade agreement should strengthen economic trade and investment between the European Union, Peru and Colombia. I am also convinced, I have said perhaps by ideology, that this agreement, like others of the same nature concluded earlier, will enable these countries, these people, these individuals to enjoy the individual and collective rights and freedoms that we enjoy here in Europe.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u139	Mr Miller, two colleagues would like to take the floor. You have the last word, Mrs. Grovonius.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u140	Mr. President, you can let him finish his sentence.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u141	Mr President, I have finished my speech even though I would like to say one more word to Mrs Grovonius.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u142	Mr Dallemagne also wished to take the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u143	Mr President, very briefly: I think that this agreement is the story of the bottle half full or half empty. Let us look at the photographs, the human rights situation, the general situation of governance, the situation of violence in Colombia, for example, since this is a great deal. A few years ago, she was dramatic. I think there are positive developments in Colombia today. In particular, there is a peace agreement with the FARC that is fundamental. And there are a series of developments that, I think, are favorable. That's right, the situation is far from great. This agreement is just a trade agreement. It could have been wider, it could have been more ambitious. There's still a series of problems. That is why we propose to abstain. I think there are developments. We would have opposed it a few years ago, we do not oppose it today, but I think there are still some problems. The Minister of Foreign Affairs has proposed a mechanism. I think that's a good thing. I have proposed that this mechanism be accompanied, or rather consolidated, by fiscal and governance components. The Minister for Foreign Affairs, in committee, told me that it was self-evident. In particular with regard to taxation, I have also proposed a series of indicators, so that we can verify on an objective basis the development of the situation in these countries, as in other countries with which we have or will have trade agreements and association agreements. Again, I believe that the situation in these countries, and in particular in Colombia, is not yet satisfactory, far from it, but that there is a process. Personally, I do not wish to oppose this process and the conclusion of these trade agreements.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u144	I thank Mr Dallemagne for his appreciation and for pointing out that there is a positive development in Colombia. It seems to me that it is our duty to do everything we can to try to promote, to strengthen the peace process, in particular through a policy of economic revival, through trade treaties. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the position of our political formation. I assume that the minister will also respond to your concerns, Mr. Dallemagne. In conclusion, I wanted to say to our excellent colleague Mrs Grovonius that we too, as you said, want a more just world, a world where there is more well-being for the people, a more equal world. But I have the feeling that with your attitude, it's finally a fairer world for you, and maybe not for everyone.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u145	Mr President, I shall be brief. We have spent a great deal of time in committee discussing these texts. Our group will vote against, and I shall now answer for that vote. For us, ladies and gentlemen, the key test for a vote in favour or against was whether the Treaty contributes to the political stability and economic growth of Colombia and Peru. Some of my fellow Members have already said that this is what the debate was about. The Minister said that the Treaty promotes economic growth and we asked him if he could make that statement. We have not received an answer from the Minister in this respect, unless the commitment to draw up an annual report, but that is mainly about respect for human rights and not about the economic consequences of those agreements. So we have not received an answer. I have already mentioned in committee Mr Hellings has already referred to the fact that the present treaty, which will be adopted by the majority, is very similar to the one between the United States and Colombia. The effects of that treaty are as follows. In 2011, when that treaty was not yet in force with the United States, Colombia had a trade surplus of 3 billion dollars in its relations with the United States. In 2014, Colombia has a deficit with the United States. It is therefore clear that the Treaty has not improved the economic situation of Colombia. The question arises as to why and there are several explanations, which I will not give all of them, but experts say that two reasons are important. Unfortunately, these reasons also apply to the treaty that the European Union will conclude with Colombia and Peru. The first reason is that these two countries are being pushed into the role of raw materials exporter. The second reason is that these two countries are obliged to open up their markets to American and large European companies, with the result that medium-sized Colombian and Peruvian companies are pushed out of the market. Minister, we had asked to make it clear why the European Treaty would be different from the American Treaty. We have not received an answer. We note that it is very similar and we fear that it will have the same effects. So please do not say that the adoption of this treaty will contribute to political stabilisation and will lead to greater poverty in this country, and certainly not to economic growth. Today we have received another message from the Belgian knowledge group Be-cause health, which points out that both the American and the European conventions for the major pharmaceutical companies from Europe and the US impose on Colombia and Peru that patents on European and American medicines will have to work much longer in time and that it will be difficult, if not impossible, to use cheap white medicines. This is going to be a big problem in Colombia and Peru. Outside the big cities, a health system is being set up which includes cheap medicines. This is hampered by such treaties. Thirdly, the Treaty calls for social standards, environmental standards and human rights to be respected. My fellow Members who will vote in favour say that this Treaty gives Europe a leverage to improve the social situation, the environmental situation and the human rights situation in those countries. Ladies and gentlemen, I look forward with great interest to the Minister's annual report, but the little point of the annual report will be that we will be able to look at something here and there. I give it to you on a page: the enforcement mechanisms contained in the treaty are weak. Practice shows that similar European treaties, with similar sanctions and enforcement mechanisms, do not work, let alone that there is the political will to apply them, either by Europe or by the states concerned. Nor do we believe that the argument that this treaty will lead to the development of better social, environmental and human rights standards. For these three reasons, no more economic growth, no more social and therefore political stability, and, thirdly, no leverage to strengthen environmental rights, social rights and other rights in those countries, our group will vote against.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u146	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the stated aims of this Treaty, and I refer to the text, are the intensification of trade between Colombia, Peru and the European Union, the improvement of access to the public market for the various companies of the two entities and the creation of a common discipline on intellectual property rights. There, there is the issue of medicines, as our president, Mr. Van der Maelen, but also the question of seeds. The Treaty hopes, in this context, to improve the question of human and social rights, and to ensure, Mr Miller, that a series of ILO standards are applied by Colombia and Peru "all by allowing regional integration in the Andean zone". The aim is to ensure that not only Colombia and Peru, but also Ecuador and Bolivia can be part of this trade package. This is the presupposition of the treaty. As you said, Mr. Miller, and as the Minister of Foreign Affairs has said, trade will bring not only economic prosperity but also social, environmental and human rights. What do we find in practice? On the one hand, when we listen to the intervention of the Foreign Minister, the aim on the European side is to offer new trade opportunities for the large "exporting industries of the European Union". The Minister cited automobiles, chemistry (fertilizers, seeds, etc.).), pharmacy and telecoms. What can Colombia and Peru expect from such a treaty? The Minister replied: "The European Union will open its market to Colombia and Peru for industrial and fisheries products and will offer tariff concessions for large agricultural exports." In what context will we ratify this trade agreement between Colombia, Peru and the European Union? Our industries and some of our leaders believe that Colombia and Peru are agricultural and mining eldorados. There is no doubt that wealth is very important. In a context where, for decades, a communist guerrilla, based on a harmful social situation of peasants uprooted from their lands by the appearance of great latifundia, feeds on a social despair of land grabbing and the emergence of an extremely voracious extractive industry in land, and therefore in spaces for farmers who, until then, were the supporters of a rather family and food-producing agriculture. Let us not forget that the problem of coca and the emergence of a real coca farm is precisely the result of the land grabbing and the uprooting of the peasants. Had the peasants been able to stay at the place where mines were opened and latifundia were created, these peasants would not have gone to the border of Colombia, to areas that are not controllable by the regular army and where the FARC and the culture of coca have emerged. It should be noted that, under these conditions, the repression of trade union actors is the strongest ever observed in the world. Colombia is the place where trade unionists are most widely confined to the ratio of the population. Thus, the core of the problem in Colombia is linked to the misallocation of land, despite the existence of two laws that re-distribute the land and prevent people from possessing a maximum of x hectares. Today, one of the social problems is the orientation of the Colombian economy towards the extractive industry and the exporting agricultural industry. In this context, will the trade agreement eliminate the cause of the problems observed in Colombia? Our view is that, on the contrary, it will amplify them. Let us take the simple example of the imports Belgium wants to see progress through the trade agreement with Colombia and Peru. The minister responded that our industries were waiting for ores and exotic fruits. That is what is in the report. In these areas, it is not small peasant agriculture that is concerned, but the large multinational companies that, in order to be able to produce these exotic fruits or extract this ore, needed to go through a process of land grabbing, at the basis of which all the social problems lie. A human rights report that would be distributed on our benches every year is a sex cache or a screen. Indeed, until now, at no time, even though we have ratified treaties that include social and environmental clauses here, never has our State or the European Union suspended a party or an agreement in the name of the fact that the social and environmental clauses were not respected. I take the clear example of Qatar and its construction sites for the 2022 World Cup, where social and environmental rights are violated. Belgium has a trade agreement with Qatar. Yet our country has never activated a suspension clause. She may have made some points, but she never activated suspensions. I repeat that the basic problem is the misallocation of land. Is the solution free trade? We don't think so. This did not work in the context of free trade and the treaty between the United States and Colombia. The main problem calls for a national measure, an emancipatory and national policy of equitable redistribution of land, which will derail the base of recruitment of the FARC and also the cause of cultivation of the coca. Rather than putting an end to the violence or hoping that this free trade treaty will help the peace process, we environmentalists fear that this treaty will amplify the underlying phenomena of this violence and exacerbate them. For this reason, we will vote against this bill introducing this treaty into our law.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u147	Mr President, without any surprise, we will vote against this agreement. First of all, I will make a small general consideration. In the history of international politics, it is often noted that free trade seekers are, each time, the strongest nations from an industrial and economic point of view. It is always the strongest nations that can compete, win the competitive battle in the domestic market of other countries. The debate has existed in the world for 150 years. This debate took place between industrial powers. Remember when England wanted an open market, while other European countries preferred some protectionism. The situation has not changed. Through free trade agreements between developing and industrial countries, which ultimately wins? It is the companies that have the most capital, the most industrial and scientific means to conquer the market of the other. That's what happens in every country. I've already been able to explain it here in the House. I worked for two years in the Democratic Republic of the Congo. We can see how many foodstuffs from the West, particularly from Belgium and France, completely break the internal market, be it eggs, onions, etc. We fear that this same phenomenon will happen again in the countries of the South. Fortunately, and I am pleased that we are not the only ones to think so. More and more Latin American states have themselves politically understood this reality. Other political parties have come to power. A new wave of progressive politicians has arrived. Those States themselves called for the withdrawal of those mechanisms. I am pleased to note that countries such as Bolivia and Ecuador have already withdrawn, which leads us today to sign an agreement with only two countries. I would like to take this opportunity to congratulate and encourage all Latin American peoples to continue their struggle for economic independence from the countries of the North. Let us come to Colombia and Peru, two countries that have not yet taken this step. I don't think it's good for them or for us. The agreement lists all the benefits: EUR 16 million for chemicals, EUR 33 million for the automotive sector, EUR 60 million for textiles. We list all the business we can do on our side. Unfortunately, what will be won on the other side, we don't develop it much. The reason seems to me to be quite clear: our intrusion into the domestic markets of these countries will take away gains. Let us take the example of Peru. The anecdote is funny: today we are asked to vote for something that is already in application, which gradually becomes a habit in European democracies. Peru did not have a patent policy on medicines. Since the introduction of the agreement with the European Union, it is now five years of patents and resolutions are being prepared to go into eight years of patents. Why? Because multinationals are pressing to be able to patent all the products they sell there, especially seeds. The issue of seeds is very important for countries such as Peru and Colombia. It sometimes even takes political and military turns. Land grabbing, the acquisition of land by large multinational groups, is one of the fundamental problems in the agrarian non-reform of these countries. This policy of land grabbing has the consequence that the land that can be seen in our countries as a commodity beast for sale is often an existential condition for the peasants of Peru and Colombia to be able to exploit their own land, from which they are driven. I believe that the measures proposed today in this agreement are not going to improve the social conditions of Peruvian and Colombian farmers. We have already addressed the issue of human rights. I would remind you that Colombia is one of the countries where a large number of trade unionists have been murdered, so we are not just talking about a lock-up. Twenty-six trade unionists were murdered in 2013, thirty-five in 2014, sixty-nine in 2015. That's Colombia's list. It is therefore business as usual agreements that are concluded. We don't have too many questions, but the most worrying is to learn who is behind these assassinations. It is very regrettable to note, as several investigations have shown, that multinationals active in the field, especially Nestlé and Coca-Cola, contribute to the financing of paramilitary groups. We are therefore witnessing an economic looting, as described in this type of agreement, and a persistence of inaction in the face of political and military oppression in those countries. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Minister, I will not be surprised if you say that we do not have much enthusiasm for this agreement. We will continue to mobilize with social movements and other political parties against such agreements. I hope that the wave of Latin American countries seeking genuine independence and the development of a self-centered and autonomous market will go beyond Bolivia, Venezuela, Ecuador and will be able to work towards the construction of an independent continent that will weave fair relations – not relationships of dependence on the European economy, as we have known them for fifty or sixty years.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u148	Mr President, we have had extensive discussions in committee, but I will make a few comments, first of all on why we support free trade. It's more than a tradition. The enlargement of the European Union, year after year, to 28 European countries was a great success, not only in terms of trade but also in terms of human rights; it has also made very great progress in the south and east of Europe, compared to the past. The same applies to the environment and social rights of many workers in the European Union. The same reasoning also applies to the federal level and the Regions, for example in the relations with Colombia and Peru, to which we organised foreign trade missions in October 2014, at the request of the three Regions, to explore the possibilities for our companies for more trade relations with Peru and Colombia. There were questions about possible progress for Peru and Colombia. One of the main points of such an agreement or agreement is the opening up of the European market to exporters from Peru and Colombia, through the immediate liberalisation of industrial and fishery products and the commitment of tariff concessions for the agricultural sector. We are trying to give increasing support, including to other countries outside the European Union, with an evolution towards free trade. The second point should reassure Mr. Miller. He is not alone in Europe, despite what we are hearing this evening. Of the 28 states of the European Union, 25 have already ratified this agreement. Greece and Austria remain, and this will probably not reassure certain groups on the contrary of others, but the French National Assembly has just ratified this agreement and the Senate has yet to vote. At home, with various majorities, the German-speaking Community, like the Flemish Community, has already ratified it. I know the majorities of these different Communities and I am sometimes surprised. I will not go back to the committee's debates on the contradictions found between federal and federal entities. In the European Parliament, the EPP saw 232 of its members vote in favour and 9 abstain without a vote against. In the Socialist Group, 119 members voted in favour, 37 against and 14 abstentions. That must reassure Mr. Miller. I have confirmed this in committee following a question by Mr. Van der Maelen. At the request of Mr Van der Maelen, I confirmed that in committee. The aid is substantial. At European level, the Socialist Group voted against. At the P.S., that was something else. There were two abstentions at the PS. It is already very democratic to have a different opinion at the various levels. There was a yes vote in the German-speaking Community, a no vote at federal level and a abstention at European level. It's not always easy to follow that vote, but I'm trying, although that's not my first job. I come to the third element which relates to the progress made in the countries with which we are negotiating, including Colombia and Peru. As far as Colombia is concerned, on which many comments have been made, it should be noted that, from an economic point of view, unemployment rose from 12.2% in 2010 to 8.7% in 2014. A number of European countries would like to see this development. In any case, this is a step forward that must be welcomed. Better than that, for the first time in a long time, we believe that a peace agreement can be reached between the Colombian authorities and the FARC. Is it in such a period that we must oppose active support, particularly through this type of commercial approach with Colombia? I would like to add that, as is the case at European Union level, there are more and more regional free trade agreements. In all these regions, including Latin America, the will is to integrate more and more markets, to move towards more and more open markets. This brings me to the report which, for the first time, will be provided on my initiative by my department. I do not want to convince you, Mrs Grovonius, but you should be aware that what has been requested in committee corresponds in all respects to what is proposed here. You may be asking for something else, but the committee and the government have agreed that a report to take stock of trade agreements will be tabled every year, including, of course, the trade effect of these agreements – that is the least – but also their impact on a range of other areas, including environmental and social matters. And as several have requested, the report will be strengthened by the reports of a range of international organisations, not least by the European Union, but also by our diplomatic posts in the countries concerned. A whole range of other agreements can be evaluated, whether at the tax level or in other areas. But most of all we will try to see what conclusions can be drawn. We will ask ourselves whether proposals for improvements or amendments should be made and presented. In any case, this is the first time that we have engaged in such an exercise in all the agreements that have been concluded in the past. That is what I wanted to say after the broad debate we had in committee. In order to avoid the debate on the report on which it is concerned taking place at too long a date, I have proposed to work on a first report from the beginning of next year. It's not gonna be a room to break. It will be well developed, I know the members of my department. This will, in any case, allow us to hold a very rapid debate on the assessment of the effect of these agreements. If Parliament wants particular emphasis to be placed on one or the other agreement, of course, this will be done. I would like to thank all the groups that Mr Miller has managed to convince and which will probably vote, in any case, for this text, or even for abstaining, which is already a step in the right direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u149	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u150	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1271/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1271/1) The draft law has 3 articles. The bill has three articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u151	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u152	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u153	Mr President, I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u154	Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u155	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1384/3) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1384/3) The draft law has 3 articles. The bill has three articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u156	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u157	Without report Not related
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u158	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u159	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, over the last few weeks there has been a lot of talk about the role of Saudi Arabia in the context of terrorist attacks and, above all, the radicalisation of a non-important part of the Muslim community in our country and in Europe. Today you cannot just talk about it and pay lip service to your sudden struggle against Saudi Arabia and its wahabist colleagues from other countries; today you can actually do something, namely to oppose this draft law approving the Seat Agreement between our country and the Organisation of the Islamic Conference, OIC. What's going to be the vote in a minute? The OIC, Organisation of Islamic Cooperation, is given the opportunity to open some sort of embassy with immunity from jurisdiction, immunity from property of the OIC, immunity from the premises and a scheme for the movement of funds, the money of the OIC. The latter is not insignificant. I see that Mr Metsu is not here. He'd better stay put for a while, because it's gonna be important. In the context of the flow of funds from the OIC towards our country and Europe, this is indeed not insignificant. We grant exemption from direct taxes on all property. We will also grant exemption from customs. We will also exempt the OIC from individual taxes on imported and exported goods and so on. Tell them the OIC can open some kind of embassy with us. What's the OIC? Apparently, not everyone is aware of that. The OIC is in fact the only organisation of countries based on a common belief, Islam. They have organized themselves as such to have sufficient strength and power within the United Nations. Their main objective is to promote Islam. The organization was founded in 1969 after the attack on the Al-Aqsamoskee. Since then, 57 Islamic countries have even the unrecognized state of Palestine belongs to it in Jeddah, a city in Saudi Arabia. You were right to understand that! So it is not just an innocent club, which we give a lot of privileges through the seat agreement and thus also give the recognition that countries have with us when they have, among other things, an embassy. The OIC also explicitly states what it wants and what it stands for. For example, in 1990 they recognized the Islamic Declaration of Human Rights, a bit like the equivalent of our Universal Declaration of Human Rights. In order for parties represented here in the hemisphere to be able to count on party funding, they must endorse the Universal Declaration of Human Rights in their party constitutions. If they don't, they won't get any money from the taxpayer. The club, which you will soon be granting all kinds of privileges in our country, does not recognise the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, on the contrary: it has its own declaration. Perhaps it will interest you, even though you may become a little uncomfortable, to know what is in the Cairo Declaration of the Human Rights of Islam, as recognised by the OIC. Let me read you a few articles briefly from the Islamic Declaration of Human Rights of the OIC. The most interesting articles are Articles 24 and 25. It states, I quote: "All rights and freedoms mentioned in this declaration are subordinate to the Islamic Sharia." You have heard this correctly: all the rights and freedoms mentioned in this declaration are subordinate to the Islamic Sharia. Article 25: "The Islamic Sharia is the only reference source to explain and clarify all articles of this Declaration. Article 22 states that freedom of expression is limited to expressions consistent with Sharia. So far the freedom of expression of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights according to Islam, drawn up by the OIC Article 6, for the ladies in the company tonight, states that the woman has her own rights and duties and that the man, and only the man, must take care of the maintenance of the family. Article 10 states that there is no freedom of religion. It explicitly prohibits the practice of or convert to a religion other than Islam. Articles 19 and 22 mention the punishments on it when one converts to a religion other than Islam, so the punishments for the kafirs, most of us. That's how it goes on. Our Foreign Minister is well aware of this, but his excellent relations with Saudi Arabia, Qatar and the United Arab Emirates have made him blind and deaf to all these arguments for longer than today. The OIC is not an innocent club, quite the contrary. May I also refer to what the Strategic Advisory Council International Flanders has written in an opinion on the seat agreement? I quote: "The OIC is not an undisputed organization." The views of the OIC on human rights, terrorism and anti-Semitism, but also on freedom of expression and equality between men and women are contrary to our ideas and values and to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.' I didn't say that, says the Strategic Advisory Council International Flanders. Ladies and gentlemen, over the last few days, many of you in the hemisphere and in front of television cameras and radio microfilms have made all sorts of roaring statements. The muscles were rolled again as a result of the attacks in Paris and all that has emerged in the wake of the attacks in Paris. In doing so, the left launched the attack on Saudi Arabia, which, of course, was late, because it could have done so when it had its own say and provided ministers as part of the majority. But the left never did. From the opposition, it can now suddenly do so. I take note of that. However, when it really comes to doing something, it always remains deafeningly silent. You now have the opportunity to make it clear to the OIC, with countries such as Saudi Arabia, Qatar, the United Arab Emirates and Sudan, the whole plejade of wahabitic, extremist, salafistic Muslim countries, for once that we do not agree with them, that we do not accept their Cairo declaration of human rights under Islam and will never agree with it, that we want to limit and reduce the influence of such countries and that we want to limit the flow of money from such countries to wahabitic and salafistic mosques. But what are you doing? In the statement you have presented, you are doing just the opposite of what you have stated in the past few weeks. In Article 6 of the Seat Convention, which you will approve shortly, you will even be dealing with the movement of funds, which is the money that is officially regulated between the OIC and our country. You'll even exempt it from tax. That is what you will be doing in the near future, and that is really at odds with the muscle-rollering of recent weeks about Saudi Arabia and the wahabist and salafistic countries. I am not under any illusion that my speech and my arguments will have any effect on you. Soon, at the next attack, when the media are again interested in the issue, you will again make the same hypocritical statements. If it really matters, you won't do anything like we're used to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u160	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u161	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1435/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1435/1) The draft law has 3 articles. The bill has three articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u162	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. Mr Dewinter, the general and article-by-article discussion is closed. Nevertheless, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u163	Mr President, I know that I am all telling rather uncomfortable truths, and I can even imagine that no cat in this hemisphere has read this Seat Agreement with the Organisation of the Islamic Conference, let alone realized what he will be voting on later. I find that unlikely. We have just spent an hour debating an agreement with two extremely important countries, Colombia and Peru. We have discussed human rights and all kinds of issues which are undoubtedly important. It's okay. I have no objection to this, but an agreement with 57 Muslim countries, including all the wahabi and salafist countries, is not a problem for any party, let alone worth a moment of discussion and even a reply from the Foreign Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u164	Mr Dewinter, we take note of your statement, but the discussion of...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u165	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u166	Mr Dewinter, I asked if the government wished to intervene. That was not the case. As a result, the Members' replies were also deleted and the discussion was really closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u167	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u168	Mr President, I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u169	Mr President, the Istanbul Convention is presented as the most advanced and comprehensive set of international standards in the fight against violence against women. It is therefore an important step that we are taking in this Parliament today, on the basis of a text from the Council of Europe, which Belgium already signed in September 2012. It is the first legally binding instrument at European level which addresses various areas, including prevention, protection and support, substantive law, procedural law, immigration and international cooperation. It is a global convention that tends to provide answers to this, so important, problem that we all know. And because the figures are intriguing in this area, I would like to quote a few of them. According to a European Union report, one in three Europeans has been subjected to physical and/or sexual violence at least once in their lives, since the age of 15. One in seven women faced at least one act of violence committed by their partner, or ex-partner, in the course of the year. According to Amnesty International, 50 per cent of Belgians are aware of at least one person who has suffered serious sexual violence, a violation of fundamental rights that is not sufficiently reported as a result of prejudice and social stigma. Finally, more than 48,000 women and girls whose nationality is that of a country where female circumcision is practised live in our country. Of these, slightly more than 13,000 were considered to have been excised and slightly more than 4,000 were considered to be potentially at risk of excision. In addition, some 500,000 women in the European Union are said to have undergone genital mutilation. Through this ratification, your Government is demonstrating what I would call a political will to adopt further concrete measures to combat this violence. This ratification should mean an expansion of efforts to combat violence against women, as well as an expansion of measures to deal with the specific violence of rape, honour killings and mutilation. Of course, we are not a bad student in this area. However, it would be interesting to point out in which area specific work still needs to be done in order to meet the many requirements of the Convention in our country. My colleagues and I are also regularly asking Mrs Sleurs about her policy in this area. At the moment, we have not yet seen much new developments in the fight against violence against women, but also in the fight against discrimination. Both are intimately linked. However, a new national plan of action against all forms of violence is expected to emerge shortly. This new 2015-2019 plan must extend its scope to include sexual violence, namely rape, sexual harassment and prostitution. We look forward to him. The ratification of the Istanbul Convention by our country must, I repeat, lead to an even more ambitious, even more effective policy to combat violence against women. I can assure you, my group will not allow it to be otherwise.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u170	Mr. Chair, Mr.Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this is a particularly important issue that we are now discussing. In this House, there seems to be consensus on this subject. But even in Europe, we are far from it. For example, the Polish Parliament ratified the Convention by 254 votes to 175 with 8 abstentions. And the government in place is one of the opponents to the vote on this ratification. At the time, at the time of ratification, the Polish episcopate said: "The convention is based on extremist and neo-Marxist gender ideology." That is how much more work needs to be done to ensure that the neighbouring countries accept what we believe is normal! And ratification, I imagine, will be unanimous. This Istanbul Convention will be ratified, while it has been signed in Istanbul, a city in a country that has been under discussion lately. We saw this last year with the Turkish Minister's statements that one could not represent a laughing woman. As a result, hundreds of thousands, even millions of pictures of laughing women were taken. I think this is an excellent answer, a nice nose-foot that has been addressed to this minister and her desire for a ban. This debate is therefore very important. I would also like to welcome Secretary of State Elke Sleurs, who, contrary to what Mr Blanchart has just said, is acting on this point. On the proposal of my colleague from Open Vld Nele Lijnen, we have started working on the issue of violence against women and are finalising a series of hearings. In this regard, Mr. Blanchart, the minister will shortly come to tell us about her intentions in this regard. That is to say how much we Belgian parliamentarians must accompany the very positive action that has been taking place in our country for many years. I come back to the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention and Combating of Violence against Women and Domestic Violence, adopted on 7 April 2011. One might point out that four years have passed. Why did it take so long? Because the ratification process means that we must first go through the various assemblies in Belgium. It seems to me that the last one to have ratified this text is the Joint Community Commission in July 2015. I thank Minister Reynders for having asked in the Committee on External Relations that this item be taken up even before his general policy note, which we will discuss next week. So we will not be the last to finalize the ratification. As my colleague Blanchart said, it is important and essential that it is men who speak, not just women. Indeed, it is a problem of our humanity, of which women are victims, but it is men who are often responsible. It is necessary to conclude with all the elements of this violence against women on extremely different subjects: forced marriage, female genital mutilation, sexual violence, including sexual assault, rape, harassment, physical and psychological violence, including moral harassment, abortion and forced sterilization, so-called honour crimes. These are points on which we absolutely must not compromise. It is also for this reason that our fight against Daesh must be without limitation because it is a society that wants to reproduce everything we hate, all the situations we want to fight against. We must be particularly proud to bring this ratification bill together. I hope that we will have unanimity. In any case, on behalf of the MR Group, I can say that we are proud to be able to do so with great enthusiasm.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u171	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have been waiting a long time for this draft law, because we have been asking for years, and today it is finally time for plenary. I think the importance of this convention should not be underestimated. Several Members of this House have said this on several occasions today, so I agree with that. The Convention has important objectives, such as the protection of women from all forms of violence and the prevention, prosecution and eradication of such violence. Other objectives are the elimination of discrimination against women from society and the promotion of equality between men and women. It is also a question of developing a framework to protect and support all victims of violence, promoting international cooperation and supporting and assisting organisations and law enforcement institutions in order to address the problem in an integrated way. The provisions in the convention are very specific and we can therefore actually have an impact in practice. We are not only paying lip service to the principle of equality between women and men. That's important, isn't it? I would like to give a number of examples which I have also mentioned in committee. Governments are required to take certain preventive measures, such as the training of professionals to deal with victims, the regular conduct of prevention campaigns and the preparation of programmes to rehabilitate perpetrators of domestic violence. This includes specific protection measures, such as the possibility of a temporary ban on housekeeping as a punishment for perpetrators of domestic violence, the obligation to provide for a sufficient number of shelters that are sufficiently geographically spread, you name it. There is much to eat and drink at the convention that we will approve today. We will follow the treaty very closely, also to ensure that Belgium will effectively respect the provisions of that treaty. We fought for that. In this way, I would once again like to thank the Institute for Equality between Women and Men, the Women's Council and all the women's organisations that have helped to make this possible today. I think today's approval is symbolic, because there is still a lot of work to be done. More than ever before in our society, we must show that equality between men and women is essential.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u172	Mr President, oof, at last, we are ratifying the Treaty of Istanbul. Because some Länder have done their homework far too late, we are with this approval with the last countries of Europe. Of course, that's unfortunate. It's like a climate agreement. We are ready, Minister, to ratify a comprehensive treaty, with a multidisciplinary approach, to ensure that women are protected from all forms of violence and that violence against women and domestic violence can be prevented and prosecuted, so that we can eradicate that violence. Mrs Lijnen pointed out that all discrimination against women was included in this Treaty. We are glad that we are ready, because it is a very important treaty, including for our country. In the Committee on Social Emancipation, Mr Flahaux has already referred to this subject. We are working on a long line of hearings on rapes. We see people from the judicial world, the welfare world, civil society and the police. Despite all the efforts and good will of many organisations and actors in our country, it becomes clear week after week that we still have a lot to improve on our Belgian legislation in this area. There are still many improvements to implementation in the field. I am thinking here of sanctions, prevention and the promotion of declaration. I understand from the Secretary of State for Equal Opportunities' policy paper that she really wants to do something about that. In any case, she has our support for this. Rapes are just one example. There are many other forms of violence. So there's still work to be done. This treaty is also important because it allows us to harmonise what is punishable in this context, because even within Europe, policies in this area are still far too different. In short, we hope that this treaty will help to ensure that fewer women live in fear in the future, and I hope that this is the beginning of a great cooperation between us all to ensure that this is done together.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u173	Mr President, our group also, of course, recognizes the importance of this Istanbul Convention, the ratification of which has been delayed for four years. It is a very important treaty because it is a binding treaty. We are also eagerly looking forward to what the national action plan is going to do in this area, because it concerns prevention, protection and prosecution of violence against women. We heard yesterday in committee that the National Action Plan will be launched next week by Secretary of State Sleurs. I hope that it will be fully based on the Istanbul Convention, a treaty that has been drawn up in full consultation with all European organisations for the protection of women and against violence against women. I hope that its application will continue in consultation and that the national action plan will also demonstrate this. It is very important that Belgium should give follow-up to the implementation through Parliament, because it is very exceptional that Parliament should be mentioned as a stakeholder in a treaty, which is very explicitly done in Article 70 of this Treaty. This means that there will be annual national surveys from a committee of experts of the Council of Europe specifically appointed to this Istanbul Convention. It is important that Belgium appoints someone on that committee of experts, so that we can learn from best practices, from the exchange between different countries. However, I note today that no implementation has yet been carried out. I think that we should first of all appoint the Institute as the coordinator of this Convention, we should send someone on the committee of experts, and Parliament should be very explicitly involved in the implementation and application of the Convention.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u174	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is not because I come to the rostrum that my speech will be longer than that of others, but I must confess that I do not like to speak when I turn my back or when I do not see some interlocutors in this Chamber. [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u175	I do turn my back on the president, but he chose to stand there, to be above everyone. Remember the extra step that has been placed. We added a march so that when we are seen on television, we can see the president at the same time. It was a clever president who thought about it. This does not date from today but from a previous legislature. I'll let you guess who this is. We'll have a quiz! Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this Istanbul Convention is particularly important because it is a tool to combat violence against women, but it is also a binding tool. However, I believe that Belgium needs constraints in order to be mobilised in concrete policies to combat violence against women. Although we are a democratic country, convinced of the equality between men and women and of the need for this fight against violence, in fact, in 2013, 162 people died as a result of domestic violence. There are eight complaints of rape a day and there are 8,000 mutilated women and 4,000 girls or women at risk of genital mutilation in our territory. This means that our policies, mobilizations, social and political organization are not yet able to avoid this violence against women. The fact that this Convention is a binding tool will undoubtedly require us to put in place concrete tools for prevention, protection, prosecution and integrated policy. It is well known that daily vigilance is required to ensure that, in the event of a complaint, the victim is properly taken into account, that the justice system actually acts and effectively responds to such complaints and that there are concrete measures taken against the perpetrators of such violence. Yesterday we discussed in the Committee on Health the general policy note 'Equal Opportunities', in which an important chapter is devoted to combating violence. We have had the opportunity, opposition as a majority, to recall this concern and the need to have not only plans but that they are actually translated into active and proactive policies and vigilance. This Convention is also a tool that should encourage us to have Belgium represented in the GREVIO Group of Experts and should allow our Parliament to interact permanently with the government, with these experts and with the parliaments of the other Member States. Ecolo welcomes the fact that, after three years, we finally decided to endorse this agreement in the House. The film "The Suffragettes" is now on the screen. This beautiful and interesting film reminds us of the slogan created by Emmeline Pankhurst in 1898: "Dedes not words!" I think that this convention is a message that it also sends to us.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u176	Mr President, very briefly, I would also like to stress on behalf of my group the importance of this convention on violence against women. I am convinced, our group is convinced that every time women take a larger part in human societies, societies evolve rapidly. Equality between women and men is one of the foundations of rapidly advancing human societies and the fight against violence against women is also a very important element. Colleagues have said that there is something to be done in front of our door. We can certainly, through binding tools such as this Convention, further improve the situation in our country in particular, but also in all the countries of the Council of Europe. I am pleased today that we can approve such a convention, which is an indispensable tool for democracy and the future of our human societies.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u177	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, it has been more than three years since we waited for this moment, until the Istanbul Convention was finally ratified by all of our federated entities and therefore, ultimately, by the federal government. Belgium has always been involved in the fight against violence against women. However, on April 30, we learned that domestic violence would no longer be considered a priority in the 2016-2020 national security plan. Endorsement of the Istanbul Convention will thus prove to the victims that we will not abandon them. This consent was all the more urgent because our many efforts on gender equality could not be called into question by our institutional complexity. I therefore thank each level of authority for having assumed its responsibilities in this matter. It is a fundamental instrument in the fight against violence against women in Belgium and throughout the world. For this violence spares no social milieu, no culture, no generation. It is an evil of humanity that must be eradicated. Today, we can no longer accept that one in three women in the world be beaten, mutilated, sexually abused or abused in the course of their lives. We can no longer accept that violence against women remains the leading cause of death among women aged 15 to 44. We can no longer accept that in Belgium, one in ten women is the victim of rape and dare not file a complaint. We also had to continue the momentum launched in this Assembly on 5 March by the adoption of our motion for a resolution on combating early and forced marriages in the world and, in particular, in the partner countries of the Belgian Development Cooperation. The Istanbul Convention is the first binding instrument to create a legal framework to prevent violence against women and domestic violence, protect victims and bring perpetrators to justice. Prevention, protection, repression, these are the three key words of this convention! This framework therefore stresses the training of front-line personnel, the increase in the supply of shelters for victims, emotional and sexual education in schools, the judicial follow-up of complaints of rape, the fight against stereotypes, as many points as my party has always firmly defended. The implementation of the Istanbul Convention will ensure the optimal implementation of the Multi-year Action Plan to Combat Gender-Based Violence, coordinated by the Institute for Gender Equality. It will also give a famous boost to all our equal opportunities policies. Finally, it will open up the right of asylum to women who are victims of violence in their country or who are at great risk of being subjected to violence if they are sent back - I call on the Secretary of State, Mr Franken, to pay close attention to this point - which, in the asylum crisis we are experiencing today, is a considerable step forward. For all these reasons, my group will support this draft agreement, which is all the more fundamental given that the degree of advancement of a society has always been commensurate with the place given to women and their rights. I thank the three gentlemen who spoke on behalf of the women. It's a very positive sign. I'll go see the movie "The Suffragettes."
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u178	Mr President, first of all I would like to thank all the groups. The draft law was adopted unanimously in committee. I hope that the same reasoning will be followed here. What is new, as many have pointed out, is the binding nature of this Convention. It is obvious that the vote that will take place today is very important, but the national action plan still has a little more. Above all, we will have to translate this action plan into concrete measures. I would like to add that Belgium will continue to play its role on the international stage in combating violence against women. Moreover, as we have just been re-elected to the Human Rights Council, we will have the opportunity from next January to play an even more active role, particularly in the context of universal periodicals, in an attempt to convince a number of partners to move in the same direction. But today, the essential thing is that the text can, after all the federated entities, be voted on at federal level, with the hope of unanimous parliamentary support.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u179	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u180	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1436/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (14361) The draft law has two articles. The bill has two articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u181	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u182	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u183	Mr President, this is an oral report since there is a certain urgency about this text, which is one of the few that has yet to be dealt with in a bicameral procedure. It must be approved by the Senate at its plenary session on December 11. That is why our committee unanimously accepted this accelerated procedure. We analysed and debated this text at the meeting on 1 December. The Minister for the Budget presented this text, recalling the specific framework for the financing of the German-speaking Community, which is not governed by a special law but by the ordinary law of 31 December 1983. I would remind you that this Community is by far the smallest of the federated entities of our Kingdom. In the absence of economies of scale, given its small size, additional financial resources are clearly needed, as the minister explained to us, to enable it to finance the expenses that are the result of its status as a federated entity. This text simply provides for an increase in the federal allocation to the German-speaking Community, which, if we vote, will obtain €3 million for 2015 and €7 million per year from 2016. Fixed and non-indexed amounts. Following the comment of the Council of State on the subject, the opinion of the Parliament of the German-speaking Community was requested and communicated on 21 September. The Parliament of the German-speaking Community welcomes this bill to amend the law, which will help to mitigate the financial impact of the lack of economies of scale already explained. He regretted that section 3 of the bill did not provide for indexation and adaptation to economic growth. In the general discussion, two members spoke. Mr. Vuye noted the difficulties in translation that had been taken into account. In French, we are talking about federated entities and Mr Vuye reminded us that this notion of "gefedereerde entiteiten" did not exist in Dutch. He preferred the expression "deelstaten" and asked the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Budget to pay attention, from now on, to translations so as not to use inappropriate expressions. I hope the Minister of Finance has taken this into account. I have no doubt that this is the case for the Minister of Budget. I spoke as a member of the Ecolo-Groen Group to welcome and support the principle of this measure and to be surprised at the majority's choice of not having planned to index the amounts allocated to the German-speaking Community beyond 2016. I have announced the tabling of an amendment to correct this omission, this error, this choice of majority. We then reached the vote on the articles. In Article 3, we discussed this amendment. The Minister replied that it was a desire of the majority not to index this allocation to the German-speaking Community as it had already announced in the general presentation, considering that this non-indexing was a way of making the German-speaking Community contribute to the consolidation of public finances. Finally, the amendment was put to the vote. It was rejected by 11 votes to 2, with 0 abstention. However, the clause was passed as was the bill unanimously. This concludes my report.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u184	Thank you, Mr Gilkinet, for this oral report.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u185	It's always with great pleasure, Mr. President. I will confirm very quickly that on behalf of the Ecolo-Groen Group, we will support this text, whose importance we stress in the construction of a Belgium with four federated entities, one of which is objectively smaller, with its own linguistic, cultural, social and economic characteristics. This entity will have, if we adopt this text, additional means, beyond having specific legal provisions with regard to its relations with the Walloon Region. It makes sense, it's normal, it's desirable. On the basis of these additional amounts, it will therefore be responsible for using them in an autonomous manner, and on the basis of the democratic representation resulting from the elections, to make proper use of them for the benefit of its people. Having said that, I confirm and reiterate my astonishment at the majority's choice of not having provided for automatic indexing of these amounts despite the explicit opinion of the Parliament of the German-speaking Community. The arguments used to create this supplementary allocation remain valid over time. The aim is to take account of the fact that the German-speaking Community is the smallest of the four federated entities. In terms of economies of scale, its economies are limited. This applies in time with the evolution of the cost of living which is calculated through the indexing system in our country. The second argument is that the cost to the federal state would be limited: we committed to donating €7 million. The cost-of-living supplements represent an amount that, with respect to the means of the federal government, is not insurmountable, Madam Budget Minister, despite the lengthy discussions that we have had and that we will still have on Budget 2016. There is a real risk of damaging cordial relations with the German-speaking Community, which has expressed itself explicitly in the opinion requested of it following the comment of the Council of State. In this context, I am also surprised at the vote in committee on Tuesday and at the lack of a vote on the part of either member of the majority. There has not even been an abstention on this proposal for an amendment, which I will repeat with the co-signature of my elected colleague from the province of Liège, Mrs Gerkens, who supports this proposal, like the whole Ecolo-Groen Group. This proposal provides for automatic indexing of this supplementary allocation to the German-speaking Community. We hope that the forty-eight hours that have elapsed since the vote on the text in committee will have allowed everyone to reflect on this issue and, possibly, on those who are, like us, convinced...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u186	Mr President, I just wanted to point out that Kattrin Jadin did not vote against indexation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u187	I don't think I've quoted Kattrin Jadin, who will come to the gallery. She was present in committee and neither voted in favour nor abstained. That's all I can say for sure. I'm not looking for polemics. I'm just trying to make sure that we legislate at best. I therefore hope that these forty-eight hours have allowed everyone to reflect on their voting behaviour, or even on those who, like us, think it is a normal and logical decision, to have been able to convince a majority of the members of this House, particularly in the majority, to make this act of courtesy towards the German-speaking Community.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u188	Sehr geehrter Herr Präsident, I will speak entirely in German. It's a pleasure for me. Sehr geehrter Herr Prässident, liebe Mitglieder aus Parlament und Regierung, es gibt in der Tat nicht viele Gelegenheiten für mich, mich ausschließlich in meine Muttersprache zu äußern. Diese Gelegenheit bietet sich aber mit diesem Gesetzesentwurf, dem wir in der Tat im vergangenen Finanzausschuss der Kammer abgestimmt haben, wo es auch zu Debatten gekommen ist. Ich möchte da auch wirklich die Einigkeit begrüßen, das ist auch aus dem Bericht hervorgekommen, die alle Mitglieder dieses Ausschuss an dem Tag gelegt haben bei der Abstimmung dieses Gesetzesentwurfs. Es ist gesagt geworden und scheint auch aus dem Bericht der uns vorgetragen wurde heraus, es sind die fehlenden Skaleneffekten, liebe Kollegen, die eine neue Finanzierung in diese Größeordnung lebensnotwendig macht für die Deutschsprachige Gemeinschaft. Deshalb ist es natürlich ein ganz besonderes Vergnügen für mich und eine ganz besondere Freude für mich dass die MR und alle Mehrheitsparteien, das möchte ich hier ganz besonderes begrüßen, diesen Vorstoß gewagt haben, mittels natürlich lange Verhandlungen. Es ist, wie unser Premier sagte, ein Akt der Bundestreue. Es ist, wie schon mehrmals gesagt, ein wichtige Akt, der uns auch als deutschsprachigen die Möglichkeit gibt die viele Skaleneffekten auszugleichen und unserem Finanzhaushalt in Ordnung zu bringen. Es ist ein wenig zum Abänderungsvorschlag besagt, auch was das Votum betrifft. Ich möchte da ganz klar sein und auch ganz koherent bleiben, indem was eben hier suggestiert worden ist von meinem Kollegen Gilkinet, hören Sie gut zu ja, der Abänderungsvorschlag, den Sie gemachten haben, beruht in der Tat auf das Gutachten des Parlaments der Deutschsprachigen Gemeinschaft, also, das in seinem Gutachten in der Tat auch bedauert, selbst wenn Sie das ganze Gutachten Gelsen haben, sehen Sie natürlich, dass vales darin auserordentlich und besonders begrüsst wurde, beauert die Nicht-Inducierung der übermitteln Mittel, Finanzierungsmittel, das ist gerichtig. Allerdings, ist auch ichtig, dass dieser Betrag, der auch das Resultat von langen Verhandlungen ist, von auch nicht imganz einfachen Verhandlungen ist, und dass eben auf Grund dieses Betrages, die Haushaltsministerin hat dies auch nochmal im Finanzauschus gesagt, eben auch miteingegangen ist, dass man diese Beträge nicht indexierung würde, auch damit enhergeht die Tatsache, das diese Nicht-Indexion der zu überreichenden Mitteln eben auch ein Beitrag sein kann für die Sanierung unseres Staatshaushaltes. Es ist also absolut koherent dass man auf einer Seite natürlich an diese Ausarbeitung des Gutachtens mitwirkt, andererseits aber auch bei der Ausarbeitung des Resultates mitwirkt. Und das hat Ihre Partei nicht gemacht, nur wir damit mal ganz klar sind, weil Sie machten grosse Lippenbekenntnisse: wir sind für die deutschsprachigen, wir mögen sie so.Ich würde, und Herr Nollet hat ja eben so klatscht wenn es um den Autonomieausbau der Deutschsprachigen Gemeinschaft geht, dann müssen Sie auch ein bisschen mehr als nun Lippenbekenntnisse machen. Ich habe das in der vergangenen Legislaturperiode sehr gut beobachten können als es um Befugnisstransfers innerhalb der Wallonischen Region ging. Those were those Lippenbekenntnisse plötzlich nicht mehr da. Seltsam, seltsam! Tut mir leid, Herr Gilkinet, auch ein bisschen parteipoliticen Kalkül hier, Abänderungsvorschläge macht, vielleicht nur um kleine Bredouillien zu creeren. Soval dazu. Im Gegensatz zu Ecolo nämlich...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u189	Eine Interruption.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u190	Ja.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u191	Mr. Gilkinet. (...): In German!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u192	Auf Deutsch!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u193	Mrs Jadin, I will not be able to answer you in German, although I have been sworn three times with a lot of conviction – "Ich schwöre die Verfassung zu befolgen" -. We must pay close attention to the federated entities that make up our State. Moreover, the Ecolo-Green group practises bilingualism on a daily basis, but not yet trilinguism. At the time when Claudia Nyssen was with us, we might have practiced it more. She is now the mayor of Eupen.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u194	She's replacing my mayor.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u195	I would simply like to reiterate our commitment to the recognition of the Community fact and to the balance that has been established by the sixth reform of the State through this supplementary allocation which will be voted on with our support for the German-speaking Community. We believe, with the opinion of the Parliament of the German-speaking Community and in accordance with the arguments set out in the law which have been repeated by the Minister, that it was normal to provide, as with other allocations, for automatic indexing in order not to have to renegotiate any more. This would make it possible to recognise that in Eupen, as in Brussels or Flanders, the cost of living is changing – the price of equipment or heating, even if good insulation is better to reduce it. If the federal government is correct, it must be able to index this subsidy. I don't want to argue. These amounts are not excessive. We are on the symbolic plane. I had the weakness to believe that with your support I would be able to convince the Finance Committee and perhaps the plenary. Instead of trying to convince me of the validity of the decision, talk to all those who rejected our amendment to convince them to vote in a few minutes' time.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u196	Ich danke Ihn dass Sie keine Polemik verursachen wollen, ich bin davon absolut überzeugt, etwas weniger was die Ausführungen betrifft die Sie gegeben haben. Es ist klar, das habe ich auch verstanden, ich brauche dazu keine große Präzisionen hinzu zu bekommen. Ich will es nochmals ganz klar sagen, es ist das Resultat von Verhandlungen, in den auch akzeptiert worden ist, dass man den Index hier nicht anpassen wird für die Mittel die überkommen. Ich war dabei bei den Lippenbekenntnissen, ich hatte mich nämlich schon zu Ihrem Verhalten geäußert, es ist sicher verstendlich, dass Sie so reagieren, aber wir verhanden. That's what I'm talking about. That's what I'm talking about. That's what I'm talking about. Mit der Unterstützung, die wir schon seit Jahren seitens der MR erhalten für die Belangen der deutschsprachigen, gehen wir über gewissen Lippenbekenntnis heraus. Dieses Resultat ist für mich der beste Beweis für die Forderungen die wir auf alle Ebenen schon seit Jahren revorbringen. Übrigens auch vor Herr Nollet if there is no Minister war, aber leader wurden sie von ihm nicht so mitgetragen, wie wir es uns damals gewünscht hatten. Die Refinanzierung der Deutschsprachige Gemeinschaft ist für uns der beste Beweis das diese Unterstützung nicht nur ein Lippenbekenntnis ist, probern auch ein konkretes Resultat, mit Taten. Herr Präsident, in Diesem Sinne, became ich meine Intervention legden. I will thank all those who have auch zu diesem Resultat beigetragen.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u197	Danke, Frau Jadin. Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u198	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1478/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1478/1) The draft law has 4 articles. The bill has four articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u199	Held: the vote on the amendment and Article 3.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u200	Article adopted by article: Articles 1, 2 and 4. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendment and the article in question and on the whole will take place later. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendment and the reserved article as well as on the whole will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u201	The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1482/1) The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1482/1) The meeting's open. The discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u202	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I refer to my written report. However, I should like to point out that the general policy note was unanimous in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u203	Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The meeting's over. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u204	The vote on the 2016 budget of the CREG will take place later. The vote on the 2016 budget of CREG will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u205	By letter of 30 October 2015, the President of the French-speaking Appointments Committee for the Notarial Society stated that Mr Christophe Beauduin resigned as an alternate member of the French-speaking Appointments Committee for the Notarial Society. By letter dated 30 October 2015, the Chairperson of the Commission de nomination de langue française pour le notariat indicated that Mr. Christophe Beauduin resigned his term as an alternate member of the Commission de nomination de langue française pour le notariat. The Dutch-speaking and French-speaking nomination committees for the notaries are each composed of eight working and eight alternate members, each with four notaries and four non-notaries. The notaries are appointed by the National Chamber of Notaries. Non-notaries shall be appointed by the Chamber by a two-thirds majority of the votes cast. The Commissions de nomination pour le notariat francophone et neerlandophone are each composed of eight effective members and eight alternate members, each composed of four notaries and four non-notaries. Notaries are designated by the National Chamber of Notaries. Non-notaries shall be appointed by the House by a two-thirds majority of the votes cast. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 2 December 2015, I propose that you publish a call to candidates for an alternate member's mandate - as an external member with relevant professional experience - from the French-speaking appointment committee for the notary in the Belgian Official Journal. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 2 December 2015, I propose that you publish in the Belgian Moniteur a call for candidates for an appointment as an alternate member - as an external member with useful professional experience - of the Commission de nomination de langue française pour le notariat. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u206	The government requested urgent procedure under Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when submitting the draft programme law (I) (No. 1479/1). The Government requested urgency in accordance with Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure at the time of the tabling of the Program Bill (I) (No. 1479/1).
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u207	Mr President, pursuant to Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Representatives, the government requests the urgency of the draft programme law No. 1479/1 and for the draft programme law No. 1480/1, as they are budget-related programme laws.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u208	Mrs Kitir, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u209	Mr Secretary of State, it is good that you read to us from the Rules of Procedure. We all know that by now. However, the question is why this is urgent. The reason I didn't hear it. Could you answer that, please?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u210	Mrs Kitir, these are articles relating to the budget; the various committees have discussed the need to vote on these matters before the end of this year. You've been given the relevant lists.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u211	Mrs Fonck, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u212	Mr Secretary of State, you are very nice to give us all this, but what list is it? What is the purpose of the program bill?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u213	A question was asked and Mr Tommelein answered. [[)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u214	Mr President, the Secretary of State is reading a number of issues here and adding that it is important that they are approved. That doesn't explain the urgency, does it? That's not a serious way to work, is it? Yeah, there's a list. Yesterday, at the Conference of Presidents, we received a list of 40 documents which the government wants to hunt through Parliament before Christmas. Mr President, you have just been very present and very reactive to deny Members the floor. Well, now I want a President of the Chamber who tells Mr Tommelein to explain why there is urgency for these drafts. But no, it is not, because there is another N-VA chairman, a chairman of the majority, and a parliament that is mismastered by the majority and that continues to last, week after week.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u215	Mr Calvo, when you become personal, you are not at your best. In addition, a question has been asked and the Secretary of State has answered them. You may not make peace with that answer. Then you simply do not support the urgency. We shall therefore now sit and stand up and express our opinion on the urgency.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u216	I am speaking to you, Mr. Chairman, because we have had a lot of discussions on emergency requests. We simply ask for information about the urgency and why it is urgent. I do not blame the Secretary of State and his ignorance of the situation. We sent him to the pipe breaker, so he doesn't know. Can't the vote on this emergency be postponed until the Secretary of State receives the information? Mr President, you must be the guarantor of the protection of the work of Parliament and, in particular, of the opposition. I ask you to use your authority to have an answer since it is a right of opposition.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u217	Mr President, I fully agree with you. A question has been asked and I have answered it. If they don't like the answer, it's their right. That is how we do it in the city council of Ostend, Mr Vande Lanotte, as you know.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u218	Mr Vande Lanotte, for a personal statement?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u219	Mr President, I would like to confirm that absolutely, but it is also a good majority. That's the difference.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u220	I understand that the majority voted in favour of urgency. I also have to run the counter test.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u221	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u222	Mrs. Onkelinx, you're wrong. I can't answer for the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u223	Mr President, like your predecessors, you can, at some point, urge the government to respond to the legitimate demands of the opposition. That's what I'm asking you to do.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u224	I made the request twice.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u225	[[...]] [[Brouhahaha]] This is ridiculous!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u226	The Secretary of State does not know what the text is about. Mr President, perhaps you know what this text is about? Or can a member of the majority tell us? That's all we're asking for.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u227	No, Mrs. Fonck, it's the government asking for an emergency.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u228	Mr President, my question is only about the content. Can anyone inform us?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u229	Mr President, a relevant question has been asked. If it is enough for the member of the government to answer anything, for example by giving the score of a football game, we consider that he answered and that's enough? That doesn't suit me! Mr Tommelein is quite on his way to becoming perhaps one day governor of a province in Flanders!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u230	Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that we proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u231	Mr President, I would just like to point out that we have discussed the issue of urgency at the Conference of Presidents at some length and that there have been two lists. The first one, you accepted it as being to be taken as a matter of urgency. So we had an agreement on the emergency request at the program law level. I therefore do not understand your agitation, given the agreement we reached on Wednesday on this first list in the Conference of Presidents. That's it!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u232	Mr. Chairman, you made a commitment, some time ago, to require government officials to give us the content of the projects justifying an emergency request. Subsequently, it is voted for or against the urgency, but we know what we are voting on. This has not been respected here! One answer to deliver the content, namely a number and budget provisions, is too short! It is five lines that the Secretary of State could give us, and in your capacity as Speaker of the House, you must demand, as you promised, that members of the government be able to say in three words the content of a text on which urgency is requested. This is simply what you are asked to do!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u233	Thank you, Mrs. Gerkens. I can only say that I insisted on the government to give motivation. I asked the government representative for an answer and a motivation. We take note of his answer and vote. It's simple. Those who are in favour of the emergency are rising.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u234	Mr President, what Rule of the Rules of Procedure states that a list of urgent subjects is to be voted on per plenary session. What article?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u235	We did not vote on a list, we voted on a draft.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u236	No, sorry. Mr. Tommelein says that these designs, he mentioned two or three numbers, are we going to do the design per design or not?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u237	I was just about to read that. The Government also requested urgent procedure under Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when submitting the draft programme law (II) (No. 1480/1). The government also requested urgency in accordance with Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure at the time of the introduction of Program Bill (II) (No. 1480/1). In this context, I propose that we express our opinion on the urgency of sitting and getting up.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u238	The State secretary is clearly unable to respond to anything. Could you check whether these requests are in List 1 or List 2 that we discussed at the Conference of Presidents? If it is in List 1, we had agreed, and in this case, of course, there is an urgent need. If that is in List 2, there was no agreement in the Conference of Presidents, not even necessarily in the majority. And so it is normal for us to have an explanation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u239	These are projects that have been submitted. They're in list one. And as Mr Ducrame said, we have had an agreement in the Conference of Presidents to put forward the draft budgets and programme legislation again this year.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u240	It's a shame he's obviously happy to be here and he's not saying anything. It was enough for the Secretary of State to say "these are List 1 projects for which there is an agreement of the Conference of Presidents", rather than to adopt a beat smile. This information would have avoided the problem we have experienced!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u241	The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. If there is no objection, I shall consider it adopted; in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be sent to the committees responsible. If there are no comments on this subject, I will take it into account as a matter of fact and refer the proposals back to the relevant committees in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u242	This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Finance and Budget Committee on 25 November 2015. This interview was held at the public meeting of the Finance and Budget Commission of 25 November 2015. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 085/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr. Georges Gilkinet; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr. Hendrik Vuye. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 085/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mr Georges Gilkinet; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr Hendrik Vuye. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u243	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, our country's reputation has been severely damaged in recent weeks. There is no question here of terrorism, nor of the "Fossil of the day" prize that was awarded to us on Monday in the context of the COP21 in Paris. I am referring to an article published in the very serious press, German and French, in this case Le Monde for France. It explains how the Belgian State sabotaged the work of a high-level European group aimed at combating harmful tax practices. I asked the Minister of Finance about this at a recent committee meeting. I take this opportunity to invite those who have not yet been read to read this highly documented article of the French-language weekly Le Vif, which explains that with the excess profit ruling – a beautiful invention of a previous government – it is 7 billion euros that are not paid to the Belgian State in the context of corporate tax. This is not concerned with SMEs that create jobs in Belgium, but with multinational companies. It is in this regard that I asked the Minister of Finance to make all the transparency on this work in which we are represented by senior officials of the FPS Finance. We would like to obtain the notes expressing the views of the current Government and its predecessors in this European working group. We also call on the Commission, in terms of the exchange of information on tax rules, to play a more proactive role in putting an end to these tax dumping practices which only benefit a few to the detriment of European states, including ours. This scandal must stop! That is why I tabled this motion of recommendation, which I thank you for supporting.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u244	Start of voting / Start of the vote. Did everyone vote and check their vote? / Did everyone vote and check his voice? End of voting / End of vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u245	Yes 78 Yes No. 53 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 131 Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u246	Vote on Amendment No 1 by Karine Lalieux cs. to Article 5. (1287/2) Vote on Amendment No 1 by Karine Lalieux cs. in Article 5. (1287/2) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 2) Yes 54 Yes No. 77 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 131 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 2 by Karine Lalieux cs. to Article 5. (1287/2) Vote on Amendment No 2 by Karine Lalieux cs. in Article 5. (1287/2) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 3) Yes [[41]] Yes No. 78 No Abstentions 13 Abstensions Total 132 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 5 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 5 was adopted. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 5 by Karine Lalieux cs. to Article 6. (1287/2) Vote on Amendment No 5 by Karine Lalieux cs. in Article 6. (1287/2) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u247	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 6 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 6 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 6 by Karine Lalieux cs. to Article 8. (1287/2) Vote on Amendment No 6 by Karine Lalieux cs. in Article 8. (1287/2) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 30 Yes No. [[80]] No Abstentions 20 Abstensions Total 130 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 8 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 8 adopted. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Mrs Van Vaerenbergh has voted 'no'. Vote on Amendment No 4 by Karine Lalieux cs. to Article 11. (1287/2) Vote on Amendment No 4 by Karine Lalieux cs. in Article 11. (1287/2) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u248	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 11 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 11 adopted. Vote on Amendment No 3 by Karine Lalieux cs. inserting an Article 11/1 (n). (1287/2) Vote on Amendment No 3 by Karine Lalieux cs. to insert an article 11/1 (n). (1287/2) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 5) Yes 44 Yes No. 79 No Abstentions 10 Abstensions Total 133 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 12 by Isabelle Poncelet to omit Article 12. (1287/3) Vote on Amendment No 12 by Isabelle Poncelet to delete Article 12. (1287/3) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 6) Yes [[43]] Yes No. 79 No Abstentions 11 Abstensions Total 133 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 7 by Karine Lalieux cs. to Article 12. (1287/2) Vote on Amendment No 7 by Karine Lalieux cs. in Article 12. (1287/2) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 7) Yes [[39]] Yes No. 79 No Abstentions 15 Abstensions Total 133 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 12 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 12 was adopted. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u249	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 8) Yes 79 Yes No. 51 No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 133 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1287/6) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1287/6) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u250	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 9) Yes 133 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 133 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1355/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1355/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u251	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 10) Yes 132 Yes No. 1 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 133 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1390/5) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1390/5)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u252	Mr President, I wanted to vote in favour.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u253	Of which act.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u254	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 11) Yes 81 Yes No. [[41]] No Abstentions 10 Abstensions Total 132 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1271/5) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1271/5) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u255	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 12) Yes 132 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 132 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1384/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1384/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u256	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 13) Yes 128 Yes No. 4 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 132 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1435/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1435/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u257	Mr President, I voted in favour.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u258	It's been noted.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u259	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 132 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 132 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1436/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1436/04)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u260	Vote on Amendment No 1 by Georges Gilkinet cs on article 3.(1478/2) Vote on Amendment No 1 by Georges Gilkinet cs to Article 3.(1478/2) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 15) Yes 50 Yes No. 81 No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 133 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 3 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 3 was adopted. Reason for abstinence? [[)]] Reason for abstention? )
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u261	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 16) Yes 130 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 133 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be sent to the Senate. (1478/5) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be forwarded to the Senate. (1478/5) Reason for abstinence? [[)]] Reason for abstention? )
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u262	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 17) Yes 127 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 130 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the budget for the year 2016 of the CREG. It will be brought to the attention of the CREG. Accordingly, the House adopts the budget for the year 2016 of the CREG. This will be made known to CREG. Reason for abstinence? [[)]] Reason for abstention? )
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-03-54-plenair-ip084x.u263	We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for Thursday 10 December 2015. We must proceed to the approval of the agenda of the sitting on Thursday, 10 December 2015. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 10 December 2015 at 2.15 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Thursday, 10 December 2015, at 2.15 p.m.
