ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic118x.u1	Minister, Belgium was condemned on 5 February by a judgment of the European Court of Justice because it has not yet completely changed the language rules. To this day, Selor has the exclusive right to conduct language tests, which are necessary to check with public service applicants whether they have the necessary language skills. It's not the first judgment in that sense. For the Dutch language area, this was already put in order by the Flemish government, in particular by decree of the end of 2011. For the French and German languages this is apparently not yet the case. I believe that Europe should not interfere with our language arrangements, but we are now dealing with a judgment that could affect the country. In any case, we do not see a break in Selor's monopoly on the taking of language examinations, in so far as it is guarded that the quality of language tests is not reduced and that the level of knowledge is not undermined. Questions in the previous legislature show that the government at the time was concerned with this. In October 2013, the last answer to a question was that there were three draft legislations in the pipeline, but that the consultation was held with the Länder. Prime Minister, how do you respond to the judgment of the European Court of Justice in February 2015? Secondly, what were the bottlenecks in the discussion of the three draft laws? What is the current state of affairs on this matter? Thirdly, what initiatives will you take? What's your timeline? Will you ensure that the quality of language tests and the level of knowledge are not further undermined? Finally, will you ensure that the scheme for the Flemish facilities municipalities will be fully aligned with the already existing Flemish regulations, which dates back to November 2011?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic118x.u2	Mrs Pas, I have taken note of the judgment of the European Court of Justice. I quote from this: "By requiring candidates for relations with the local services in the French or German language area from whose required diplomas or certificates do not show that they have received their education in the language concerned, to demonstrate their linguistic skills by means of a single type of certificate issued exclusively by a single Belgian official body, after an examination organised by that body in the Belgian territory, the Kingdom of Belgium has failed to fulfil its obligations under Article 45 TFEU and Regulation EU No. 492/211 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 5 April 2011 on the free movement of workers within the Union." The European Court of Justice has therefore ruled in the context of the free movement of workers, which has a certain legal order. I note that today, in addition to the Flemish Community, the French Community has brought its legislation into line with European legislation. However, the European Court of Justice did not take this into account in its assessment, as it did not do so within the time limits set.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic118x.u3	In addition to the French language area, the court also refers in its operative part to the German language area, with its nine municipalities. Since the federal legislature is competent to regulate the language in the German language area, with the exception of education, on the basis of its residual powers, we are currently examining what legal adjustments are necessary and whether we can align these adjustments with the laws adopted in the Flemish and French Community, which are virtually identical. If language certificates other than those issued by Selor are recognised in the long term, the quality and level of knowledge of these language certificates will of course have to be monitored. As for your question about the bottlenecks in the previous government, I can only tell you that I was not part of the previous federal government. Therefore, I cannot comment on this, nor can I see the problems at the time.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic118x.u4	I am very pleased that you share the concern that there should certainly not be any reduction in language testing. I am also glad to hear that we are not only in Flanders, but that the other parts of the country have also made a catch-up. It is a dangerous development that international bodies, Europe in this case, impose a language policy on the Member States. I have no objection to the regulation breaking Selor's monopoly, but this should be done on its own initiative and not on the initiative of Europe. Of course, you were not present at the previous legislature, but apparently you do not know about the preliminary draft law, for which working groups were then organised. I certainly hope that you will pick up that legislative work and work on it within a fair time.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic118x.u5	Mr President, Minister, we have already had the opportunity to exchange our views on this at the time of the discussion of the general policy note and the budgetary debate. Each time, I asked you about the disastrous consequences of linear and excessive reductions in the number of civil servants and the risks that would result from a dynamic of internal competition. You would like to rely on evaluations of results, but without any definition of the criteria of good service to citizens. Where I am joining you is that degreasing did not begin with this government, but under its predecessors, especially in the time of Mr Leterme. In any case, since 1999-2000, there has been a 10 per cent decrease in the total number of federal public servants, with less than 15 per cent in the FPS Finance, less 30 per cent in the Régie des Bâtiments, minus 22 per cent in Defence. It's true that you're not protecting your department either. Public servants draw our attention to the impossibility of meeting their needs, of serving citizens, of fighting fraud, or of collecting taxes properly. Let's go to the Régie des Bâtiments. For some time I held the position of Chairman of the Finance Committee, in which you were a Member of Parliament. We highlighted the flaws and neglected files. We had also pinned on the work that remained to be done in terms of restoration and renovation of the buildings. In short, these services are unable to perform their duties. Even Justice, which is somewhat spared by the decrease in the number of public servants, is also, due to budgetary constraints, unable to carry out its mission. This is one of the foundations of a democracy. That is why we have to think differently and hear the request from the officials and the three unions representing them. In the latter's view, due to the failure of consultations between public officials and employers, a structure similar to that of the Group of Ten should be put in place, so as to address the functioning of services, the needs in terms of public officials, and to negotiate – as in the private sector – social measures in terms of pensions, index jumps, falling retirement ages, which also affect civil servants. I would therefore like to hear your reaction to this proposal for an innovative body for consultation. Furthermore, how do you measure, after six months, the impact of the restrictive policies that have been decided? What percentages of French-speaking and Dutch-speaking officials are concerned? How are the functions of the different administrations fulfilled from the moment the non-replacement of retiring agents prevails? So how can their tasks be carried out, not only on the basis of functions, but also in accordance with language regimes?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic118x.u6	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, my group has already been able to raise your concerns about the budgetary restraint measures your government has put in place for public service workers. Beyond this rigour which you consider necessary, these officials regret being left behind and not being heard. They speak of the total absence of social dialogue. To date, exchanges between trade union representatives and the authorities have remained barren. This situation explains the event scheduled for Thursday, 19 March, tomorrow. A few days away from budgetary control, the public service workers question and ask for a social dialogue. Minister, are you ready to enter into a constructive dialogue with these workers who face drastic measures and whose professional future is pending? Beyond any savings, can you assure these workers, who, despite everything, will have to continue to allow the functioning of public services, that the human dimension will be taken into account, through effective social consultation? What solutions are envisaged to ensure that these structural economies do not affect the quality of the services in question?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic118x.u7	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I attach importance to social dialogue with trade union organisations, with a view to working together in an open and constructive manner with mutual respect. This is why there are now consultations with trade union organisations in Committee A, Committee B and in the sectoral committees. When they say they don't make themselves heard, that's not entirely correct! In addition, I am always prepared to engage in social dialogue on specific issues. With regard to the tools used to measure the impact of restrictive policies, I have been instructed by the government to carry out, together with my Budget colleague, a monitoring of staff appropriations. This monitoring is ongoing and is carried out by the SEPP platform, i.e. the electronic monitoring of personnel plans within the Personnel & Organisation FPS. The general monitoring of the federal workforce in January 2015, which is being finalized, shows a total of 124,236 full-time equivalents. This includes all Defence personnel, special corps, public interest organizations and social security agencies. Compared to the January 2014 workforce, this represents a 33.3% decrease in full-time equivalents. In terms of the distribution of public servants within the federal government, according to their linguistic role, it currently stands at 53% for Dutch speakers and 47% for French speakers. I have a full overview of the administration here; I will forward it to the secretariat of the committee. With regard to your questions on service delivery, I would like to inform you that the Council of Ministers on Friday, March 6, 2015 approved, on my initiative, the approach to the administration contract. This instrument will increase the accountability of the mandate holders at the head of the various CPS and PPS, establish quality agreements between the Minister and his administration, and evaluate the objectives. Administrative contracts focus, on the one hand, on the quality of service provision in the framework of basic tasks and, on the other, on measures to improve internal functioning in this field. This means improving efficiency and reducing costs, simplifying administrative procedures, improving customer orientation, sustainable development, promoting equal opportunities, improving internal control and internal audit and, finally, working with other services. The delivery of services to citizens and organizations will therefore be carried out in close cooperation with the respective executive ministers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic118x.u8	Minister, your answer remains theoretical and vague. At present, are you in a position to provide us with a description, elements that would allow us to understand, through the negotiations you have already had and this project presented to the government, the functioning of the public service, the services to be rendered, the number of people required and with what qualifications, the organization of services? If this is not possible at this time, can you provide us with a date on which it would be? It would indeed be interesting to have this vision and to confront each other. Personally, I am impressed to hear repeatedly in each department that public services say they no longer have the capacity to meet needs, to meet what you call customers, that is, citizens, users, including economic actors. It is disturbing to systematically have the same answer that basically says that this is your priority and that everything will be fine, because you want it. Recently, the Flemish administration has published more and more figures. You are also, as a member of the N-VA, part of the majority. I understand that this model also demonstrates its shortcomings in politicization, inefficiency of services and inability to meet needs. I would also like you to agree to a collective reflection. Imagining an expanded think tank and not just through Committees A and B to bring another look would do the most good for a dynamic and open management of the Public Service, which is first and foremost a service to the public.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic118x.u9	To answer your supplementary question, the government agreement provides for one year.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic118x.u10	So it's a year from now that you'll get a picture.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic118x.u11	I answered the question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic118x.u12	Mr President, I am speaking to you. If we have to wait a year, wouldn't it be interesting to have a discussion between parliamentarians and ministers about the tools and how the thinking is being built?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic118x.u13	Mr President, Minister, I was questioned by a citizen who registered in 2011 in order to be able to take a certified training course. As a reminder, federal public servants could, from 2006, register and participate in certified training: take courses, take tests and, if successful, benefit from a baremic increase. When this measure was abolished in 2013, the then Secretary of State for this subject, Mr Bogaert, always certified that persons who had registered on time could benefit from this training. Several parliamentary questions bear witness to this. However, it turns out that some people registered on time, before 2013, have still not been able to benefit from this training. Some of them are already pensioners and have not been able to attend the training for which they had enrolled. According to the figures I have obtained, some 21,000 officers are still waiting to complete their training, while the latter are expected to end by the end of 2016. According to the IFA website, the training schedule is blocked as of 22 September 2014. Minister, is there a training schedule now? Can you certify to me that all agents who have registered on time for this training will be able to take it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic118x.u14	Dear colleague, the calendar of certified trainings exists. It has been accessible to all on the IFA website since 16 March 2015. When I took up my duties, I found that there was a delay in the organisation of certified training. I therefore asked the IFA to draw up a plan to remove the waiting list within the available budget limits. Any person on the waiting list will receive an invitation to participate in a certified training before October 2016. As of January 2015, 681 people were already included in the process and the waiting list still had 13,315 people, which is a lot. The organisation of training and testing has been accelerated from this month onwards. It takes place according to the plan, with the aim that all participants in the certified trainings will integrate their new career from 1 January 2017.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic118x.u15	Mr President, I thank the minister for his answers. I will be able to reassure the many officials who asked many questions about these certified trainings.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic118x.u16	It is regrettable that the social partners have not notified their members. I worked in consultation with the social partners on this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic118x.u17	It is necessary to give people time to inform themselves.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic118x.u18	The first part of this meeting is over. I thank the Minister for his presence.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic118x.u19	I welcome the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration to come to our committee and answer the oral questions. We can start immediately with the first question on our agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic118x.u20	Mr Secretary of State, the government agreement provides that electronic invoicing will be mandatory for the government as of 2016. The ongoing pilot project should be extended to all departments so that electronic invoices from suppliers can be received and handled via Fedcom. At the same time, it should also be ensured that public suppliers can use this platform for the electronic transmission of invoices. The annual administrative burden reduction that could be achieved if all invoices were sent and processed electronically is estimated at around €3.5 billion for Belgium. The promotion and encouragement of e-invoicing are also essential for achieving the administrative simplification objectives set by the various governments. On around one billion invoices in 2013, 33,44 % were sent to companies by electronic means, compared to 15,61 % in 2011 and 22,52 % at the end of 2012. This represents an increase of 114.22 % since the end of 2011. 31.88 % of invoices were also sent by electronic means to citizens, compared with 12.63 % in 2011 and 18.5 % in 2012. This also represents an increase of 152 % since the end of 2011. The choice of government for electronic invoicing creates a win-win situation for both government and companies. In this way, the public authorities will save on their operating costs and the administrative burden for businesses will be reduced. With this, the government strengthens its leading role in digitalisation and thus gives our country a competitive boost. An efficient government is a prerequisite for a strong economy. In that connection, I have a number of questions for you. Do you have concrete data on the percentage of invoices sent to companies by electronic means for the year 2014? Do you have concrete data on the percentage of invoices sent to citizens by electronic means for the year 2014? From what date in 2016 will the mandatory invoicing for the government be introduced? Will suppliers also be able to use this platform, as provided for in the coalition agreement?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic118x.u21	Mr Janssen, first of all, since 2012, the Administrative Simplification Service has been examining the evolution of electronic invoicing in Belgium every year; I will give you the tables in a moment so that you can look at them. By the end of 2014, 8.7 % of sales invoices were sent to companies via a digital platform. This is an increase of 2.7 %. At the end of 2013, that figure was 6%. The invoices are made and sent completely automatically and are the most efficient way of doing electronic invoicing. In addition, many invoices appear to be sent by e-mail in practice. Almost 39 % of sales invoices were sent to companies by e-mail at the end of 2014, of which 26.4 % were sent by e-mail with a PDF attached and 12.6 % via e-mail with a link to a web portal. In 2013, the percentage of invoices sent by mail was 27.4 %. Approximately 52.3 % of sales invoices to companies are still sent on paper. Second, at the end of 2014, almost 7,6% of sales invoices were sent to citizens via a digital platform. This is an increase of 0.7 %, as the figure was 6.9 % at the end of 2013. The number of invoices sent to citizens by e-mail at the end of 2014 was 31.5 %. In 2013, this was only 25 %, of which 19.1 % was sent by e-mail with a PDF attached and 12.4 % via e-mail with a link to a web portal. Compared to 2013, the number of invoices sent to citizens via e-mail thus increased by 6.5 %. Moreover, 60.9 % of sales invoices are still sent to citizens on paper. Third, the federal government agreement states that electronic invoicing to the government will be mandatory from 2016. As of 1 January 2016, all federal administrations will therefore be obliged to accept electronic invoices. So we are not yet talking about an obligation for all suppliers to send their invoices electronically, but if they so wish, they will of course be able to do so. Fourthly, the Mercurius platform developed by Fedict on the basis of the European e-PRIOR platform will be able to be used by all suppliers required to forward invoices to Belgian public administrations. Suppliers will therefore be able to send invoices to federal, regional or local authorities via this platform in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic118x.u22	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your clear answer. It is good to note that the government plays a leading role in this digital story. You will also distinguish between sending via e-mail or via a digital platform. This indicates that even more people can receive their invoices digitally. We must not forget that, on top of efficiency gains and cost savings, it is also an environmentally friendly solution. It's often overlooked. I, along with you, note that electronic invoicing to businesses and citizens is on the rise and is likely to exceed more than 50% this year. I hope that by the end of this legislature in 2019 it will approach 100%.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic118x.u23	The figures will be copied and distributed shortly.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic118x.u24	Mr President, the Secretary of State, recently in the press, several articles have announced new measures to deal with the terrorist threat. Among them is a bill authorizing the Office of the Commissioner-General for Refugees and Stateless Persons (CCRA) not to grant or withdraw political refugee status or subsidiary protection to persons who have infringed public order or national security, such as combatants who have committed crimes in Syria or Iraq. This is a strong measure that is not aimed at illegal residents but at foreigners who legally reside in our territory. The drafting of this bill announced in the government agreement has been accelerated following the recent attacks in Paris and the increasing threat in Belgium. It does not only concern acts committed in Belgium, since this measure will also be valid for crimes committed in the country of origin, which are said to have been punished by a prison sentence in Belgium, whereas the candidate left his country for the sole purpose of avoiding legal proceedings. At present, refugee status can already be withdrawn, but only in the case of a lie by the refugee candidate or when it appears that he has nothing to fear in his country of origin. It goes without saying that all this must be done in accordance with the European directives and the Geneva Convention. So, Mr Secretary of State, can you tell us what will be the key axes of your project so that they can meet our international obligations? Do you already have an idea of the methods that will be used by CGRA to obtain this type of intervention? I am thinking in particular of a better exchange of information between the various bodies managing asylum and various departments such as the Interior and Foreign Affairs. What about access to the criminal record and information of the General National Data Bank? Do you have an estimate of the number of people affected by this new measure?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic118x.u25	Mr President, Mr Franken, in this press briefing, you mentioned, for matters falling within your competence, the possibility of taking measures to tighten up the policy of combating terrorism. Among these, you mentioned, among other things, an extension of the cases in which the CGRA would be allowed to withdraw refugee status or subsidiary protection to persons violating national security or public order. It is a measure that has nothing to do with the fact that the acquisition of these statutes and the conditions for their withdrawal are defined by international conventions. In addition, your statements indicate that the target audience is much wider than the potential terrorists alone. Therefore, Minister, my questions are as follows. Can you tell us how you intend to structure your project in such a way that it does not contravene the international conventions to which Belgium is a signatory? How do you intend to equip the CGRA – which is not, let us recall, a court – to be able to implement it with all the guarantees for the rights of the defence? How do you actually envisage this measure in such a way that it does not violate the principle of non bis in idem, which prohibits multiple convictions for the same penalty, in this case a criminal conviction which would entail a second administrative penalty?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic118x.u26	Mr. Chair, the main objectives of this bill are as follows. Under current legislation, the Minister may refuse access to asylum proceedings if there are serious reasons for a foreigner to consider him a danger to public order or national security. In accordance with the Qualification Directive, this competence must be granted to the competent asylum authority. For Belgium, this is the CGRA. Thus, it is proposed to make the CGRA competent to refuse refugee or subsidiary protection status because of a danger to public order or national security. This is in line with the so-called qualification directive. Furthermore, it is also possible to withdraw refugee or subsidiary protection status after it has been granted because of a danger to public order or national security. In this case, too, this concept must be used in the light of what is defined in the Qualification Directive. The CGRA will be able to exercise this competence in the first place on the basis of information provided to it by the Secretary of State or his delegate, in this case the Office of Foreigners. Furthermore, in accordance with the requirements of the Aliens Act, the CGRA is competent to request information from each Belgian authority. At this stage, it is difficult to estimate the number of cases in which the new regulations will be applied. This is likely to involve only a very limited number of people, but they are at the root of extremely problematic situations. That is why I believe it is necessary to introduce this new regulation into the law. For your information, the preliminary draft is now before the Council of State, which is to transmit its opinion to me today. Mr Kir, I have discussed a great deal with the PS on the topic of non bis in idem. To answer your question, the principle of non bis in idem does not apply in this case because it is not a penalty, but a simple application of the right of asylum, in accordance with the rules laid down at international level in the directives. In addition, no automatic consequences are linked to the criminal conviction. An individual review is always conducted that takes into account different factors. Finally, an appeal is still possible to the Aliens Litigation Council (CCE), which, as you know, is an independent administrative court. Of course, when the bill is before the House, we will be able to look at it in depth.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic118x.u27	Minister, I would like to thank you for your very comprehensive answer. I am pleased to hear the advice of the Council of State on this bill, which is in the right direction and which we can discuss in committee. It is clear that we are open to discussion on certain points. Still, it was high time to respond to this problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic118x.u28	Mr. Chairman, the Secretary of State stated that he had tabled a draft bill on which a notice was sought from the Council of State. We will certainly have an opportunity to discuss the bill in this committee. Mr Secretary of State, you have stated that it is difficult to tell whom the measure will apply. You also spoke of a problematic situation. I imagine that the draft bill reflects the type of situation and the type of profile. But we will come back to these issues in the discussion of the bill. When do you think you can table the text in committee?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic118x.u29	After Easter holidays.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic118x.u30	Mr Secretary of State, as far as non bis in idem is concerned, you are not very clear. Is the preliminary draft more explicit in this respect?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic118x.u31	Mr Kir, this is not a new discussion on non bis in idem. This is an administrative sanction. It's not a double trouble. The discussion is the same for those who are dismissed or repatriated. It's non bis in idem. Repatriation is an administrative penalty. I have been discussing this for many hours with colleagues. I remain convinced that my opinion is the right one. Let us expect what the Council of State or the Constitutional Court say.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic118x.u32	Mr Secretary of State, you are now clearer. Your first answer was very evasive. You assume that there is an administrative sanction. You are also part of a college of burgundy and aldermen. You know that when you take sanctions against a person, they are of several types. This can be disciplinary, administrative. A criminal conviction is a form of punishment. An administrative sanction is another form of sanction. For us, the principle of double punishment is in your philosophy. I am not going to epilogue here because we are in the middle of a question but, after the Easter holidays, we will certainly come back to the subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic118x.u33	Mr Maingain has stated that he is in traffic and has asked to be allowed to ask his question as soon as he is present.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic118x.u34	Since the Social Affairs Committee met until this morning, Mrs Lanjri may not be present at the moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic118x.u35	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic118x.u36	Mrs. Lanjri! I was just saying that I thought you probably wouldn't show up, considering the long committee meeting this night. Be welcome.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic118x.u37	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, we are told by the media that the number of files submitted to the Council of Foreign Ministers has exploded over the last few years and that the delay in dealing with these files is increasing. In three years, some 20,000 files were added. It is reported that this delay would not have been resolved for 50 years if it had to be continued in the current way. I know that you are aware of this problem and that you intend to do something about it. For example, you announced in the media that at least ten lawyers would have to be recruited for this service in the short term. You are also right to talk about limiting and making the number of appeals procedures more efficient in the light of the new migration code you are planning. You have also explained this in your policy paper. These intentions are, of course, very good, but the question is whether action will soon be added to the debate. I do have my doubts about the latter, because it was also apparent in the discussion of the policy paper and in the policy paper itself we read that your new migration code will not be foreseen until the end of this legislature. Of course, I do realize that they do not write such a thing in two weeks' time. I have five specific questions for you, Mr Secretary of State. Firstly, can you give a numerical overview of the evolution of the number of cases to be dealt with by the Council for Foreign Affairs? Secondly, how many staff are currently employed at this service? How many files can the service handle monthly? How much is the monthly influx of new files? Thirdly, are the necessary resources available to recruit these ten additional lawyers? When could they begin their task? Fourthly, will ten additional lawyers be sufficient to manage the current influx of files and to eliminate the historical backlog? What time limit do you propose to resolve this problem, so as to ensure that the historical backlog can be eliminated, on the one hand, and that the influx of new files can be dealt with within a reasonable period of time, on the other? Finally, what deadline are you planning to limit the number of appeals in the new migration code so that the influx of new files can be limited?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic118x.u38	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, as Mrs Pas has already mentioned, we have heard from the media that the President of the Council of Foreign Ministers is calling the alarm bell and is pointing out the enormous delay. This is not new. When discussing your policy paper and statement, you have already pointed out the dramatic backlog of the RVV. So the problem is definitely known. I would have liked to ask a number of questions about this. At the Council for Foreign Affairs, different types of professions are possible, in different categories. It is certainly not just about asylum applications, I even think they may be a minority. Can you indicate, for each category of family reunification, regularisations, asylum files, how much the backlog is? What is the overall deficit? What's the average lead time? Is this longer in certain files than in other files? For example, is it shorter for an asylum dossier than for a family reunification dossier? What measures do you propose to address the problem yourself? Have any measures been proposed by the Council for Aliens' Contests? How much resources should be devoted to eliminating this delay in the foreseeable future? What about the framework of magistrates? Should there be additional recruitment or not?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic118x.u39	Mr President, a lot of figures have been asked. I won't debit all of them, I don't think this is the plan. I'll give you some elements. It is true that the Council of Foreign Ministers is currently the worry child. The number of files has indeed increased enormously. This, of course, also has to do with the fact that there are many appeals. That is what we want to do. This is in the coalition agreement and in my policy paper, and I think we have talked about this many times. This will be done in several ways in the short term. I'll deal with this later. The historical backwardness of the asylum files at the Commissioner-General for Refugees and the Stateless is greatly reducing. The influx of asylum seekers is very low at present. Normally, it should be possible at the current pace to eliminate this delay completely by the end of this year or early next year. The delay in the regularisation files at the Foreign Affairs Office has also been greatly reduced. It looks good there too. There are three large stacks, namely asylum files, regularisation files and professional files at the RVV. One has to work on the three piles, but with that last pile one is very much behind. On 1 March the figures were as follows: 2 443 asylum files and 24 000 migration files. In the case of regularisation, family reunification and so on, there is the greatest backlog. For a number of years, the policy has been focused mainly on asylum delays. If you appeal, you still have a right of asylum. The reception of bed-bath bread in our asylum centres costs a lot of money. I believe that it was a logical and wise choice by the previous governments to focus initially on the asylum files at the RVV. They've been doing that for a while. That is why there are only 2 443 files and 24 000 in the case of migration. The average lead time for asylum files is 173 days and for migration files 450 days. Various measures are proposed to speed up the treatment of professions. Firstly, with regard to the accelerated treatment of simple professions, it concerns professions which can be dealt with by a purely written procedure in a standardised manner. For the preparation of such judgments, through the establishment of cyclical administrative backlogs, it is possible to call on Level C staff instead of Level A. In order to provide sufficient evidence of such cases, a proposal is drawn up to create a legal presumption in the case of successive applications for residence that the foreigner submitting a new application with the same legal basis is deemed to have waived the appeal he had already made against a prior decision. That's an uplifting procedure. That seems logical to me. Earlier actions which are part of the backlog can therefore be dealt with by a standard judgment, designed by an administrative delay cell, and therefore should not be examined on the substance. This requires the reinforcement of the council and a legislative amendment. That change of law is coming up. Secondly, the strengthening of the RVV for the processing of complex professions on the ground. However, the delay is also largely composed of complex dossiers which, on the substance, have to be prepared by magistrates, supported by lawyers. Here, too, there is a need to strengthen staff. As for the reinforcement of staff for magistrates, there is another vacancy for an additional magistrate. The budget for this is available and recruitment can take place. A large part of the story, of course, relates to budgetary control. That exercise is made behind the scenes, although you can read about it in the newspapers. We are certainly working hard on it. We will see what the final verdict is, but that there is a good deal of reinforcement for the RVV that is clear. It's necessary. In 2014, the Council of Ministers' decision of 10 October 2013 already granted the RVV a strengthening of the migration contentieux, namely six judges including two chamber presidents, 32 lawyers, of whom seven were internally compensated by the RVV in the 2014 staff plan from the declining asylum contentieux and five were transferred by the CGVS, as well as ten administrative assistants. It was a total budget of 2.7 million euros. That was granted at the time. When the budget for 2015 was drawn up, these additional appropriations, subject to a linear saving of 4%, were again included in the initial amounts. So they are in the budget. However, as a result of the recruitment stop introduced in October 2014, eleven attachés of this reinforcement were not recruited. They were all done with that file and the staff plan was complete. That staff plan was round on Monday and the recruitment stop was introduced on Thursday. That was, of course, for the people of the RVV. That happened under the previous government, I had nothing to do with it. There is, however, a procedure whereby an exception can be requested from the Minister of Civil Service. We're starting that procedure.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic118x.u40	We are in 2015: the government has changed!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic118x.u41	I don't think you asked a question, Mr Kir. I do not know if you have listened carefully, but it is about the budget format for 2014. The recruitment stop was introduced at the end of September or early October 2014. I took the oath on October 11, 2014. I'd say:get your facts right.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic118x.u42	Mr President, I am aware that I have asked for a lot of figures. I assume I will receive them in writing so that I can look at them more closely.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic118x.u43	Are you gonna ask another written question?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic118x.u44	No.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic118x.u45	There are two questions. The last question was only submitted at the end. We don't have all the information on that yet. We'll put them together and deliver them to you today or tomorrow.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic118x.u46	Or the report.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic118x.u47	The committee says that it is no longer possible in the report. We can send it around.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic118x.u48	We deliver it to the commission and they send it around.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic118x.u49	In the case of migration professions, you say that the lead time has been 450 days. You are proposing a number of legislative changes, but unfortunately I have not received an answer to the deadlines. A number of things you wish to change, such as efficient shorter appeal procedures, are part of that new migration code that you are not planning until the end of the legislature. That's a few more years to go. You are right to say that the RVV needs staff reinforcement. You refer to some things in the past, such as the recruitment stop in 2014. I note that on 5 February 2015, you stated in the newspaper that ten lawyers will join the RVV. I have asked specific questions about this. Are ten lawyers enough? Are you getting the resources? I did not receive an answer to that, unless it is part of the exception procedure you requested from the Minister of Civil Service. I urge you, particularly in the area of budgetary control, to set the priorities correctly and to use the extra resources where it is necessary, because the RVV is indeed the worry child, as you rightly say.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic118x.u50	Mr President, I would like to clarify this point. I apologize if I wasn't clear about that. Ten additional lawyers and one additional magistrate have already been included in the budget. This is a budget negotiated by the previous government. In 2013 there was a budget format, in 2014 2.74 million was added for a large number of posts as attachés, lawyers, magistrates and so on. A large proportion of them have been recruited. However, one magistrate and ten lawyers were not recruited because the recruitment stop was introduced in the same week. That's bad luck. The recruitment of the ten lawyers is provided for in the budget. This money is provided for in the 2015 budget and should therefore not be requested during budgetary control. Initially there is no problem, one just needs to get the recruitment stop lifted. This must then be done by means of an exception procedure, in particular through the Inspector of Finance. This is quite a technical matter, which we are dealing with at the moment. We are trying to get that exception as soon as possible so that we can recruit those ten lawyers and that one magistrate. What is in the article is correct, but there are other services that require exceptions. I believe that the Minister of Civil Service should also judge this, after the advice of the Inspector of Finance. I think everyone's working on that in an adult way, but it's not finished yet. I hope this will be completed before the Easter holidays. I would also like to say, for the record, that a lot of staff has been added. Those people are already on. The switch from asylum contentieux to migration has already been made. This is a good thing, because asylum content is not bad. Even with the reinforcement, things continue to accumulate, because there are still a lot of appeals. I have also decided to issue fewer orders because a new UDM can be invoked against each order, a new appeal. We are also working on a number of measures to reduce the influx of professions. There will be a change in the law to make these appeals swallow up. This will be done through various provisions of the law. We are in the process of taking a lot of measures to ensure the legal certainty of the professionals. These measures also make it a little more liveable for the RVV. The workload is immense. You also understand that for many people, despite the fact that the work is sometimes a motivator, the workload can become too much.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic118x.u51	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, the priority must indeed be to adapt the appeal procedures as quickly as possible so that the influx can be reduced. That's why I'm hammering at those deadlines. I've asked how many personnel can handle how many files at the moment. If I have those figures, I can also get an answer to the question as to whether the ten additional staff you are talking about will be sufficient. This is a huge, historic delay, with an additional 20 000 files in three years. The workload is enormous, so we certainly need more resources.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic118x.u52	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, it is really necessary to eliminate the backlog. This is not only demotivating for the staff, but also for the applicants. It concerns a number of people who still get a positive decision after the RVV. You know that during that period, which may sometimes last almost two years, they are not allowed to work and are not entitled to an income. That's a problem. From a human point of view, it is important to give them clarity in the short term and to be able to live with that clarity. Very often the answer is negative, they are wrong and they have to leave the country. But at least then it'll be clear and they'll know what they're up to. You can't help but think that the delay has grown. That is a result of the procedures. However, this needs to be addressed. Two years in uncertainty is unsustainable. This also creates a problem for society. If people are kept in procedure for so long, we will have to reconsider, in the long term, regularisations for certain people, for whom it is impossible to expel them from the country. That would be wrong, because it would send out the signal that those who have lasted for a long time have initiated procedures and been in those procedures for as long as possible, even though they cannot be dealt with themselves, will be rewarded. That's an important nuance. You say that there will be additional staff and that, as agreed in the coalition agreement, the multiple parallel applications will be examined by means of a draft law. There will be an upsizing procedure whereby one application swallows up the other if one at the same time...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic118x.u53	Only the last application will be dealt with.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic118x.u54	One only deals with the last application. I can make a partial contribution there when it comes to the same dossiers, the same situation and yet another application. However, that needs to be looked at. You say that you will provide legal certainty, on a case-by-case basis. Suppose an asylum seeker has received a no, goes to the RVV against the decision because he is truly convinced that he still has a chance to be recognised as an asylum seeker. Meanwhile, he becomes incurably ill and applies for medical regularisation under article 9ter. That is, for example, a situation where one has nothing to do with the other. We will look at the forthcoming draft so that it certainly guarantees the rights of those involved. Indeed, we must tackle the enormous backwardness, because this is not good for anyone: neither for society nor for those involved.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic118x.u55	I would ask you to bear in mind the speaking time. The Rules of Procedure provide that we have five minutes for question and answer, and then possibly two minutes for a reply or a supplementary question. If we allow interesting questions and interesting answers to last too long, we go far beyond our time.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic118x.u56	Recently, there has been a true exodus from Kosovo to several other European countries. The escape route that is often used for this would run through Hungary. From there, most would travel to Western Europe. Since September 2014, 30 000 Kosovars have been arrested in Hungary. In this context, a member of the Hungarian Prime Minister's party stated that Hungary should close the gates for those economic migrants. At the beginning of February, the German embassy in Pristina warned for a massive exodus from the Balkans. According to that embassy, urgent measures are also needed to stop the influx. Among other things, they mention the organisation of media-genic return flights by charter. Of course, our country is also affected by this. The figures of the Commissioner-General for Refugees and the Stateless show that Kosovo ranks sixth and fourth respectively in December 2014 and January 2015 in the ranking of countries from which asylum applications come. This is a remarkable development, especially in view of the fact that Kosovo was previously included in the so-called list of safe countries. These are essentially people who want to escape poverty, unemployment and low wages. We are therefore talking about economic happiness seekers. The possibility of such persons being eligible for asylum is virtually non-existent. The question therefore arises as to how one can quickly dry up the large influx of decisive action. The Kosovars must be sent home as soon as possible through effective repatriation. That's a second worry child of your policy. In doing so, I believe that there is a need for a serious distress campaign on the ground. What measures do you take to control and eliminate the influx of Kosovars as quickly and as efficiently as possible? What measures do you propose at European level? The problem must be tackled at European level.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic118x.u57	Mrs Pas, from 2 to 4 March I went on a mission to Kosovo. I have spread the message through various media that economic motives can never be a basis for asylum. Kosovo is considered a safe country. The asylum applications are therefore being dealt with as quickly as possible. It was made clear that asylum seekers do not get money or houses and that it is time that the people who spread these stories were no longer believed. I pointed out that almost all Kosovars failed in their intention to obtain a stay in Belgium on the basis of an asylum application and that they had to return to Kosovo, voluntarily if possible but in many cases in a forced manner. In that case, the Kosovars concerned shall be subject to an entry ban. For example, last month a secure flight was organised in which Kosovars were actually repatriated. Together with the DVZ, Fedasil will launch an information campaign to promote safe return and accelerate return to the Balkans. During my visit, several official meetings took place, including with some ambassadors from EU countries, including Hungary and Germany, who are facing the same problem of Kosovo's migration. The problem is well known at European level. The EU Delegation on the ground is also making efforts to reduce outflow. The opportunity was used to discuss the possibilities of a joint approach and to explain the Belgian position on this issue. A successful meeting was also held with the Minister for the Interior, who underlined his continued support for cooperation on the return of illegal Kosovars and the organisation of special flights. The return to Kosovo is progressing smoothly, partly through very good cooperation with the authorities on the ground. Kosovo ranks fourth in the ranking of countries from which asylum applications originate. Furthermore, secure flights will continue to be organised on a regular basis. At the end of March, another secure flight to Kosovo is scheduled. I have already raised the problem at EU level. I'll keep hammering on that. Austria took the initiative to write a letter to EU Commissioners Adamopoulos, responsible for Migration, and Hahn, responsible for neighbourhood policy. It calls for a more European approach to the problem. I co-signed that letter last week, together with the ministers of Germany, France and Hungary. I can get you that letter, if you're interested. I have just asked my Director-General about the Kosovar asylum applications. I haven't received an answer yet, but if I get that, I'll let you know. We monitor that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic118x.u58	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for the answer and the current figures. I would also like to receive the letter. The phenomenon must indeed be monitored. However, I do miss two things in your approach. The German embassy in Hungary already talked about media-genic return flights by charter. The reason for that advice is obvious. If I am not mistaken, you yourself once said that nothing impresses more than images of fellow countrymen sent back by charter. I believe that this can certainly help, because repatriation policy remains a problem. An effective and efficient expulsion policy remains the Achilles heel of a credible immigration and asylum policy. If one gets the message in Kosovo, or anywhere else, that only 10% of illegal immigrants are actually sent back here, that in other words 90% can stay in the country, it will be interpreted as an open invitation to try their luck in that country. This needs to be addressed in the first instance. It is important to know that an expulsion order is not just a piece of paper, but that there is indeed a return order against it, forced if necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic118x.u59	Mr President, I would like to make a few points. Those special flights have taken place, which has been shown on all Kosovar television stations. It is true that the Kosovar government has asked to film it, because then the Kosovars believe this. Pour la petite histoire can I say that the images were also shown on all Serbian channels, and perhaps even earlier than on the Kosovars, but there may be another agenda behind that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic118x.u60	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Secretary of State, some time ago, your predecessor launched the Sefor procedure with the aim of promoting voluntary returns and the work of the Office of Foreigners in managing orders to leave the territory (OQT). It is now time to take a first look at the effectiveness of the mechanism put in place by this circular and to see the concrete results. In particular, it is interesting to analyse how the municipalities apply the circular. We know that, according to the regions, the way in which we act in this area can be very different and the results can therefore differ. The work of the liaison officers is also important in order to accompany the communes but also to report the problems to the Office of Foreigners and to make the necessary adjustments. Mr Secretary of State, do you have any idea how many municipalities apply the Sefor procedure to date? What assessment can we draw from the application of this directive? Are the resources committed sufficient to implement the circular and to achieve concrete results? Finally, what is the return of liaison officers to relations with municipalities?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic118x.u61	Mr President, Ms Jadin, at the end of 2013, in early 2014, the Sefor office conducted a telephone inquiry to verify whether cities and municipalities are applying the procedure correctly and to identify any needs or problems related to the application of the procedure. Additional training has been provided for those who wish to do so. The survey found that 15 % of the cities and municipalities did not cooperate. In many cases, they were small communes which, due to the very limited number of illegals in their territory, did not apply the Sefor procedure. The monitoring of the order to leave the territory provided for in the Sefor procedure implies that the alien is informed of the notification of the order and of the possible consequences in case of non-compliance with it. Upon notification of the decision, he shall be given an explanation of the possibilities for voluntary return. Every foreigner who has received a negative decision regarding his or her residence situation is therefore informed of his or her rights and duties and knows what support measures he or she may receive in the event of voluntary return. In addition, the municipality asks him to complete an identification form so that the Office of Foreigners can begin the identification procedure immediately, and therefore for the duration of the order. This pre-identification helps to limit the retention time in closed centres and to make better use of the capacity of these centres. In 2014, the Sefor office processed 6,795 identification cards and 1,338 administrative reports. In 1,065 cases, detention was carried out in a closed centre or in a women's dwelling. We currently have a liaison officer in Antwerp, Ghent, Liège and Charleroi. These officers handle Sefor cases in large cities and act as correspondents for the treatment of remoteness in urban administrations. They also represent the contact person for the consultants for Fedasil's return. Liaison officers also contribute to the analysis of certain phenomena. They participate in the implementation of the ad hoc action plans and provide training in police schools. They also work more specifically on problematic issues in large cities and examine whether the Office of Foreigners can contribute to the fight against foreigners committing incivilities and criminal aliens in the context of the security consultation of the city concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic118x.u62	Mr Secretary of State, thank you. I am also convinced of the merits of this procedure. I understand that small municipalities find it difficult to offer the service that this circular allows to set up. Perhaps there are solutions to be found to ensure that this circular is more effective.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic118x.u63	Debates of the European Parliament 2366 by Mrs Katja Gabriels was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic118x.u64	Mr Secretary of State, Flemish Interest has for a long time proposed linking development aid and, if possible, other forms of cooperation with the willingness of the countries concerned to take back illegal nationals. In European countries such as the Netherlands, Switzerland and Denmark, this is government policy. In the meantime, there is growing conviction in this country that this is a good idea. Exactly ten years ago, in February 2005, then Minister of the Interior, Mr Dewael, went to work in Denmark. He then advocated linking asylum and immigration policy with development cooperation. You, too, were of that opinion. You then asked Minister of Justice De Clerck in 2011 to drastically reduce or stop development aid to countries that do not want to take back their illegals. You have also made statements to that effect recently. In an interview in the Gazette of Antwerp of 24 April 2013, you stated:............................................................................................................................................... As long as no agreements are concluded with these countries, the mopping with the crane remains open. If the Maghreb countries do not want to cooperate, I think we should ask ourselves whether we should continue to pay our EUR 17,5 million in development cooperation to these regimes. I am pleased that in the meantime so many people share our opinion. Now that you are Secretary of State, I am of course very curious whether you still believe that, if the Maghreb countries do not want to contribute to the readmission of their illegal nationals, development aid to those regimes should not continue to be paid, or not to the present extent. Have you made any concrete proposals in this respect? You have planned a visit to Morocco. Will you make proposals to that effect on the ground? Has there been any discussion of these proposals within the government with, among others, your colleague, Mr De Croo? I am very curious to hear your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic118x.u65	Mrs Pas, the coalition agreement is clear on this. I quote: "In its development policy, the government makes budget support conditional on the outcome of a regular and proper evaluation of the efforts and achievements of the government in these countries in the fight against corruption, respect for human rights and good governance, as well as in cooperation on migration and justice.' I also mention this link in my policy paper. So I will bet on that. However, it is clear that the linking of development aid to the willingness to take back nationals must be done in an informed manner, in order not to cause any unwanted or even no effects. Think about what a neighbour of ours went through in Ghana. There is no development cooperation with Tunisia. For Morocco and Algeria, there is a declining trend in development aid, also because both countries have made significant economic progress. That is a good thing. On the positive side, Morocco is ready to talk about help in managing migration flows for the next cooperation plan with Belgium. As mentioned above, this link is mentioned both in the government agreement and in my policy paper and there is consensus on it in the government. In this context, consultations have already been held with Minister De Croo for Development Cooperation. I can tell you that we are on the same wavelength in this matter. We examine concrete slopes and look at country by country what concrete steps we need to take to maximise the use of this link in a diplomatically responsible and sensible way. During my visit to Morocco at the end of this month with Mr Jambon, the intention is to talk about re-admission and related subject, such as identification, voluntary and forced return, etc. My interlocutors have been selected, that is obvious. It's not the first time. First of all, I have received the Moroccan Minister for Migration, Mr Birou, in my cabinet. That's when we discussed these cases. I've spoken to the Moroccan ambassador several times. They know very well where we have the clasp and what it is about. This will certainly cover the efforts made by Belgium in the field of assistance. EASO, the European Asylum Office, is working on a project to help Morocco develop or further develop its own asylum service. They have a real migration problem. Many people from southern Africa no longer touch Europe and stay in Morocco. They stay there for several years and start a family. For the first time, the Moroccan Government has organised a regularisation campaign. It was closed in January and regularized more than twenty thousand people. Next week we will discuss this in a diplomatically sensible way. We haven't forgotten.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic118x.u66	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. When 20 years ago, in 1995, the association between Morocco and the EU was established, there was also a commitment to the conclusion of readmission agreements. It can only be seen that the willingness to do so in practice was not always present in the Maghreb countries. We will ensure that what we have been proposing for years is finally implemented and that such agreements are put on paper. I am very interested in the report on your forthcoming trip to Morocco.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic118x.u67	Mr Secretary of State, on 22 December last, the spokesman for the Office of Foreigners, stated in the Flemish daily De Standaard that he wanted to amend the law on the police function, so that the latter could, upon request from the Office and without express permission from a judge, enter a dwelling. This request is particularly challenging in the light of two elements of law. First, the inviolability of the home enshrined in our Constitution. Secondly, the fundamental guarantee of the competence of an independent and impartial judge to issue a search warrant or not. Police officers may carry out a search only when the investigating judge issues a search warrant, except in cases which are limited to those listed in the Code of Criminal Investigation, such as narcotics, flagrante delicto or disaster. The Office of Foreigners would like to add the absence of a residence permit – since this is the only reproach that can be made to the undocumented – to this limited list that I have just recalled. A number of human rights associations have denounced this desire to legalize searches without a warrant. You told the press that you would examine the proposal with a view to making the return policy more effective. On the other hand, the Minister of Justice, in January of this year, stated that he had not seen any proposals from the Office of Foreigners, nor had any working group been dedicated to this issue. Furthermore, on 4 February last, in committee, you stated that a working group had been set up, but that this item was not yet on its agenda. Therefore, Mr Secretary of State, do you confirm to me that a working group has been set up and would have this issue on its agenda? On what legal basis is the proposal of the Office of Foreigners based? Do you really intend to support this proposal in the working group? Has the latter been successful in this regard? What are the conclusions?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic118x.u68	Mr President, I thought I had already answered a question from Mr Kir. Now this is being asked again, I don't quite understand. Honourable member, I am aware that such issues are sensitive. Of course, I will take account of European and international regulations. If a legislative amendment is necessary, I will submit it to Parliament in due course.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic118x.u69	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic118x.u70	It was, of course, a separate question, Mr Secretary of State, which...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic118x.u71	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic118x.u72	Previously, but not in this agenda, Mr Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic118x.u73	I know, but it's bizarre. Normally, if someone isn't present...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic118x.u74	... refer to the previous answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic118x.u75	I'm asking a question. I do not know what the precise content of Mr Kir's question is. I ask you a simple question: is there a working group? If so, does this working group consider the proposal of the Aliens Office?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic118x.u76	I answered this when you weren't here.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic118x.u77	Apparently, the Secretary of State refers to his earlier reply. That's what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic118x.u78	Mr President, I have a number of figures I have just received. I can only give them to you, but I also want to give them to everyone. 810 applications up to today, with 9 working days to go. Albania 21, Kosovo 36. So that's not so bad.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic118x.u79	Mr Secretary of State, my question will certainly not be unknown to you. You yourself tried at the end of the previous legislature to get an answer to it. I'm free to repeat them and supplement them. My question concerns the general treaty of 24 June 1968 between the Kingdom of Belgium and the Kingdom of Morocco on social security. Article 24 (2) of that Convention states that the widow's pension must be distributed equally among those women if the beneficiary is married to several women. Belgian legislation does not recognise polygamy. Polygamy is against it. A painful consequence of this is that widows who have lived in Belgium all their lives must share their pension with fellow spouses who live in Morocco. The Pension Service says that the second marriages must be recognised. According to the service, the man is legally married to two women under Moroccan family law and Belgium must respect that. Belgium must therefore obviously ignore its own legislation in order to comply with foreign law. Last year, Mr Demir rightly condemned these practices. She wrote a long column about this in Knack under the title "Belgium supports polygamy." That is an unacceptable mockery of our basic rights." In that open gallery, she launched a call to all Flemish fellow Members to demand that the government put an end to this. She said: 'We must send out a clear signal that we do not want to give this shameful violation of human dignity in our midst'. I fully agree with that. What steps have you taken in the meantime to eliminate this injustice? Are you taking an initiative at government level to revise the general agreement between Belgium and Morocco on this point, so that at least Article 24 (2) is amended?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic118x.u80	I have the honour to provide you with the following information. The payment of pensions under the General Convention of 24 June 1968 between the Kingdom of Belgium and the Kingdom of Morocco on social security is the responsibility of the Minister for Pensions. You should therefore put your question to Minister Bacquelaine.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic118x.u81	Mr Secretary of State, I will certainly do so. I based myself on the question you asked at the time to the then Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration, Mrs De Block, but I will certainly address your colleague Mr Bacquelaine, who will undoubtedly consult you on this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic118x.u82	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, you know that since the introduction of the new law on family reunification, we have put an end to the opportunities for ascendants, parents and grandparents, to permanently join their children. We have limited family reunification to the nuclear family, as in most countries. However, we have always assumed that people should continue to be able to visit their children or grandchildren. Many of my contacts show that, last summer, there was an article on this matter, which shows that quite a few people are experiencing difficulties in obtaining a short-stay visa to visit family members. This is difficult to do in practice. Whether the problem is with the consulates or with the DVZ that eventually grants the visa, I do not know with certainty. In any case, it is not only an impression, but it is also evident from some of the data I know. The government agreement agreed that an adapted arrangement would be introduced to ensure that family visits were made expeditiously and quickly, provided that the necessary guarantees were already requested today. In this context, I am thinking of financial guarantees and returning to them on time, which are issues that need to be guaranteed. I fully agree that we need to ensure that people can visit their families and participate in certain occasions, such as a marriage or a birth party, and that we do not allow those concerned to receive a visa or a visa too late. We must, of course, pay attention to abuse and, in this respect, consider how the system of financial guarantees can be further strengthened. First of all, how many short-stay visas were delivered for family reasons last year? Secondly, how many short-stay visas were refused for family reasons last year? Is that an increase compared to previous years? Thirdly, what measures will you take to simplify and speed up the delivery of short-stay visas for family reasons, as agreed in the government agreement?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic118x.u83	Mr President, Mrs Lanjri, since the new law on family reunification, it is no longer possible for Belgian nationals to have ascendents or those of their partner come to our country in the context of family reunification. However, it must always be possible for these people to be able to obtain a short-stay visa easily and easily to visit their family members in our country. It is of course necessary to ensure that these people return within the period for which the visa is valid and that there is a proper regime for the liability of the guarantors. The acquisition of a short-stay visa for reasons of family visit is also possible within the current framework of the Aliens Act, but in practice it appears that the DVZ often refuses visas or very late the visa delivery. It happens sometimes that people miss a family matter because the visa is not delivered in time. There is also the impression that the DVZ is always making it difficult to deliver visas. People who were previously granted a short-stay visa without problems, and also returned in good time, are increasingly finding that their visa is being refused. The government agreement also specifically provides for an adapted regime so that visas can be obtained quickly for reasons of family visits. In 2014, 26 049 visas, which were requested for a family visit, were granted and 11 514 were refused. In 2013, there were 25 399 versus 13 117. In 2012 it is 24 164 compared to 14 781. In 2014, therefore, more visas were granted and less were refused. This seems quite remarkable and important to me to know. The coalition agreement lists a number of measures. You know I'm a little sensitive about this. If one really comes to a family visit, one should be able to get here in time for the party, otherwise it will all make little sense. The first measure aims to develop information on the conditions for obtaining a visa, in particular on the elements required to demonstrate the return guarantee with a view to increasing the quality of the files submitted. We note that the family member applying for the visa often forgets the elements that should make it possible for the consulate and the DVZ to evaluate the willingness to leave the Schengen area before the visa expires. This is, of course, quite important. In practice, this means that the information on the DVZ website will be supplemented and readability improved. The website of the consulates will refer to this of the DVZ to avoid conflicting information. This information will be displayed in the premises where applicants can apply for visas. A second measure aims to promote communication between the consulates and the DVZ in order to ensure that all information provided by the applicant on the degree of kinship, the financial coverage of his or her stay and the return guarantee would be transmitted by the consulates in a factual and complete manner. This improved communication between the DVZ and the consulates will improve the analysis of the applications and involve all the information provided by the applications. A third measure aims to consider the right to exercise family contacts of the applicant and of the person visited in the assessment of the return guarantee and in particular to pay particular attention to the child's superior interest when a minor is involved. Other measures are envisaged in the context of the implementation of the recommendations of the Federal Ombudsman to the FPS Foreign Affairs and to the General Directorate of Foreign Affairs on the handling of visa applications for visits by third-country nationals to family members residing in Belgium. I have an official appointment with Minister Reynders about this. My head of the cabinet and his head of the cabinet discussed a lot of things this week. This issue has been dealt with side by side, but I have now put it on the agenda so that Minister Reynders and I can have a discussion on it, with a view to improving cooperation between the diplomatic framework, the consulate and the embassy, and the DVZ. Those are three concrete measures. I hope that this will also ensure that things are further optimised. This often happens well, but it can be even better.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic118x.u84	Mr Secretary of State, your answer responds to my concerns. I hope that this will be properly investigated, because this problem may also arise only in certain countries but not everywhere. After an analysis of the DVZ and the consulates one can see where those refusals come from. Even if a third or half of the applications are refused, the question remains why they are refused. When one finds that it is sometimes about people who meet all the conditions, it does not matter whether a third or a half is refused or that there are fewer refusals than last year. If those people have a normal file in which they prove that they have sufficient means of existence, that they have a guarantor and that they can prove that they have always returned in time in the past, then I think they should absolutely have the right to visit their families. Perhaps a fourth measure is needed. Perhaps better guidelines could be given on how to assess such a dossier. As long as one has someone who guarantees the financial costs and the costs of return, that possibility should be given. We have deliberately closed the way for the permanent residence permit of all parents and grandparents, but the possibility of visiting a family of a few weeks or a maximum of three months must be preserved.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic118x.u85	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Fernandez' 2759 was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic118x.u86	Mr President, Mr Franken, as you know, I had the opportunity to visit on 1 March last, together with Belgian colleagues, the Syrian refugee camp in Nizip, a city in Turkey located in south-east Anatolia. The camp houses some 5,000 people living in prefabricated buildings provided by the Turkish authorities and 10,000 Syrians living in tents. According to the Turkish government, 2,200,000 Syrian refugees have been welcomed to Turkey since the beginning of the civil war in 2011. Those who are not housed in camps live in the cities. A total of 220,000 Syrians are in humanitarian camps. The rest of the Syrians live in large Turkish metropolises, such as Istanbul. In the face of this war-related emergency and international events, Turkey claims to have already disbursed nearly $5.5 billion. A figure to be compared to the 22 million euros Belgium has paid over the last four years, according to my information. Mr. Franken, what is difficult to understand – and what I had initially described as almost shameful – is that your government is sloppy to help 150 refugees. There, however, more than 2 million people depend on humanitarian aid. This comparison is a cruel reminder that, contrary to the clichés that some people convey, the overwhelming majority of migration flows occur between countries of the South and not towards a so-called European eldorado. It also brings into perspective the notion that our country would already share its fair share in aid to the victims of the Syrian conflict. However, with regard to the situation of refugees, the government agreement provides that, in collaboration with the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR), the federal government will continue to structurally promote the resettlement of vulnerable refugees by applying the agreed rate of growth. With this in mind, it will explore the possibilities as much as possible within a European framework and will consult with cities and municipalities on this matter. Mr Secretary of State, what is the current status of the resettlement programme for Syrian refugees in Belgium in particular and in Europe more generally? Are additional funding opportunities being considered? Since the launch of the program in 2013, one of the main objectives of the Federal Agency for the Reception of Asylum Seekers (Fedasil) has been to actively involve CPAS in the refugee resettlement process. Thanks to the collaboration of thirty voluntary CPAS, Fedasil was able to provide housing for 170 refugees. At the beginning of the year, a new call was launched for CPAS to re-engage in the programme by providing shelter for refugees and individual support for 12 months. Would you have an evaluation of the policy conducted since 2014? What were the positive and negative points? What is the current budget for the new multi-annual framework 2014-2020 of the European Union for Justice and Home Affairs, the Asylum and Migration Fund? What transversality exists between the policies of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, the European Union and Belgium, in practice? How does it formalize with regard to the resettlement of refugees?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic118x.u87	Mr President, Mr Kir, in 2014, Belgium undertook to resettle a hundred refugees, including seventy-five Syrians. Seventy-five Syrian refugees in Turkey were selected by the Office of the General Commissioner for Refugees and Stateless Persons (CCRA) in September 2014. Two of them finally withdrew. By mid-November, Belgium was ready to host seventy-three refugees, but following a blockage in the issue of exit permits by Turkey, only twenty-eight of them were able to arrive in 2014. At the beginning of 2015, a family of six could be transferred to Belgium. On 25 February 2015, the information was received that 28 refugees had been granted permission by the Turkish authorities to obtain an exit permit. They will be transferred soon. Eleven refugees are still waiting for an exit permit. In 2015, Belgium will resettle two hundred and twenty-five Syrians. Within a year, we will resettle three times as many Syrians as the Di Rupo government during its entire legislature. Furthermore, it is important to note that since the conflict broke out four years ago, 4,317 Syrians have already applied for asylum through due process and have obtained protection status. Following the September call for CPAS by Fedasil, forty-one CPAS applied. Eighteen of them were selected to participate in the accompaniment of the seventy-three Syrians resettled. Refugees were transferred to private housing in January 2015. Since the launch of the programme in 2013, the involvement of CPAS prior to the programme, prior to the arrival of the resettled in Belgium, has facilitated the fluidity of the resettlement process through the sequence of stages, thanks to greater predictability and better cooperation with local actors. Two NGOs specializing in the accompaniment of refugees (Caritas and Convivial) offer additional support. Secondly, the multiannual programme submitted by Belgium to the European Commission, which has not yet been approved, provides for measures to consolidate the Belgian resettlement programme for a total of about two million euros. In addition, Belgium receives, according to its announced quota, a lump sum per resettled refugee. This makes it possible to cover the organisation of specific support for resettlements complementary to traditional integration services. Finally, every year, UNHCR sets priorities for Global Resettlement Needs. At the same time, the European Union sets common resettlement priorities which it can review periodically. On this basis, Belgium in turn defines its priorities for resettlement. In practice, as a first step, UNHCR is pre-screening cases. Selection missions are then organized by CGRA to interview individuals. CGRA submits this selection to the Secretary of State. The files are also subject to prior inspection by the State Security.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic118x.u88	Mr Franken, I am not going to repeat everything you have said here. We'll take the time for the analysis. I'd like to focus on two or three small things. First, you mentioned Turkey's exit permits for Syrian refugees. You explained that she was delivering them for one party and not for the other. Could you tell me now what are the reasons for this differential treatment? It is quite surprising to see that seventy-three people are in a position to come, but that barely thirty have arrived here or are in the process of coming. As I understand it, about 20 have already arrived and eleven are waiting for their exit permit. I would like to understand why the exit permit would not be issued. When we were in Turkey – and Mr. Yüksel was part of the delegation – the Turkish authorities blamed the European authorities, and in particular Belgium, for the lack of information on the situations. We'd like to understand. Then, only eighteen of the forty-one CPAS were retained. We would like to understand, here, what criteria have led Fedasil to retain these and not the others. I'll stop there. If you could already answer that in writing, I would appreciate it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic118x.u89	I'll find out why. That's a good question. I'll get you the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic118x.u90	Mr Secretary of State, Eeklo has both a Red Cross shelter on his territory and a Fedasil unaccompanied minors centre for which you are responsible. I visited that center a few years ago. In the past, this has been under-staffed. Today there is the impression that the number of residents is falling systematically. So I have a few questions. What is the current capacity utilisation rate of the centre for unaccompanied minors and the Red Cross reception centre? What are your plans regarding these two centers in Eeklo? What is the state of play in the phasing-out scenario? What influence will this have on the further development of the center in Eeklo? Will the phasing-out in other institutions lead to a higher occupation in Eeklo?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic118x.u91	Mr President, Mr Yüksel, the capacity utilisation rate at the Red Cross reception centre in Eeklo on 19 February 2015 was 81.5% or 88 inhabitants in a capacity of 108 reception places. Eeklo has only one shelter on its territory, the centre of Red Cross Flanders. Fedasil does not benefit from a shelter in Eeklo. However, until 21 May 2013, Fedasil had a convention with the Brothers of Love, which operated a small-scale centre for unaccompanied minors with a capacity of 30 people. As you will be aware, the decline in influx and consequently the decline in capacity utilisation across the entire reception network have resulted in the termination of that agreement. There are no specific plans with Eeklo's shelter today. Overall, the reduction in the number of reception places leads to an increase in capacity utilisation throughout the reception network. At present, the capacity utilisation rate is 78,5%.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic118x.u92	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, thank you for the figures. From your answer, I understand that there are no new plans for Eeklo's shelter.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic118x.u93	Mr President, thank you for your mercy, because it is not obvious to run from one room to another! Mr Secretary of State, I was able to read, some ten days ago, that a plan for the removal of illegals drawn up by Belgium and the Netherlands would have been endorsed by their respective competent authorities. One lesson learned was that one flight per month would bring the illegals back to their countries of origin and that the European Union would intervene in the costs of repatriation. This removal would be organised with our neighbour from the North and coordinated by Frontex - European Agency for the Security of the External Borders of the European Union. Mr Secretary of State, could you clarify the content of this agreement with the Netherlands? How and from when will this plan be implemented? If the European Union is also involved in the costs of the plan, what will be the share of the costs borne by Belgium?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic118x.u94	Mr President, Mrs Jadin, in general, the 9-point declaration of intent with the Netherlands aims to strengthen and improve the good relations between the different immigration services of the two countries. One point refers to the more intensive cooperation between the two countries in the organization of special flights. These are specially organized flights to return illegal aliens to their countries of origin. Through this agreement, it was agreed to share the programming and planning of these flights and to harmonize them according to the other country. The idea is to seek synergies so that the right choices are made with regard to the potential destination and to optimise the use of these special flights. The accumulated expertise in the organisation of these flights will also be exchanged. In March 2015, discussions will be held with the Dutch DT&V (Dienst Terugkeer & Vertrek). The DT&V is the competent authority in the Netherlands for all matters relating to removals. These discussions should lead to the development of a comprehensive plan that includes the priority countries for these special flights. Then, a timetable will be set to be able to register people on flights from the other country. These proposals will then be relayed to Frontex to be open to other European countries. Every effort is being made to make these projects operational quickly after the talks. Frontex finances the organisation of these special flights to the country of origin. A country (the Netherlands or Belgium) organises special flights and that country receives subsidies. Frontex also provides a subsidy for flight connections between the participating States and the country from which the special flight will take off. There was a problem in the Netherlands with Mr Teven, who had to resign, but the scheduled meeting was maintained. So, it's moving! We're working on it!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic118x.u95	It's moving. You stole my line because you took the lead. I wanted to know what was happening following the resignation of the minister in charge. In this regard, I am pleased to see that it is not just a statement of intent that has already been implemented in order to allow for greater collaboration. I sincerely hope that this is a collaboration that will bear fruit in the right sense of the word. The fact that the European Union can support this programme is an encouraging signal. It will now be necessary, Mr Secretary of State, for us to make an initial estimate within a few months, the results of which will certainly interest you just as much as I do.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic118x.u96	Mr President, Secretary of State, I hope that every visit you make will not be followed every time by resignation! [[Hilarity]] I know that you are currently making numerous visits to the world. After Holland, there is Kosovo and Morocco. I hope that this will not become a habit.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic118x.u97	When I visited Albania, I met the Albanian Minister of the Interior. A week later, he was the target of a bomb attack. Maar hij leeft nog!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic118x.u98	Where Mr. Franken is going, something's going on! That is what we will remember from this committee. [[Hilarity]] Mr. Secretary of State, I'm going to surprise you. I agree with you today on a statement. On the other hand, I do not agree with the objectives. You'll see him. On 24 February 2015, you met in Holland this poor gentleman who had to resign since then and you committed with Holland to work better in the future on asylum and migration issues, including through a better exchange of information, the appointment of liaison officers and a common approach at European level. At the same time, you have raised what you see as a "false" in European legislation on freedom of movement and installation. A flaw whereby European citizens have more extensive rights to family reunification than Belgian citizens in our territory. What it was agreed to call "downward discrimination". Mr Secretary of State, this is certainly as shocking to me as you are, but for reasons that are obviously totally opposed. I am, like my group, a strong advocate of European integration and the acquis communautaire, whose freedom of movement and installation is an essential pillar. Faced with the situation you describe, my question is not how to restrict the rights of other European citizens, but how to extend the rights of Belgian citizens, even if it is correcting mistakes that may have been made, in good faith, in the past. These are not new issues because they could already be addressed by your predecessor, Mr. Dewael, in 2006, well before the reform of the 1980 Act. Mr Secretary of State, what steps were taken by your predecessor in 2006? Have they been evaluated? What measures do you intend to take to put an end to the discrimination against Belgian citizens in the current situation?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic118x.u99	Honourable Member, Mr Kir, I have the honour to provide you with the following information. For full information, I refer you to the law of 25 April 2007 published in the Belgian Monitor of 10 May 2007 and entered into force on 1 June 2008. Briefly, this law extended provisions applicable to members of the family of a citizen of the Union to members of the family of a Belgian. However, when the family member was an ascendant, the Belgian had to show that he had stable, regular and sufficient means of subsistence, as well as health insurance. The assessment of this measure led to an amendment to the current section 40ter of the 1980 Act to which I also refer. As a result of this change, only the father or mother of a Belgian minor who has sufficient resources, provided that the latter is in his charge and that he is in fact in his custody, can invoke the benefit of family reunification. The provision contained in article 40ter of the 1980 Act was adapted by the Parliament itself in a law of 8 July 2011. This law was validated by the Constitutional Court in its judgment 121/2013 of 26 September 2013.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic118x.u100	Secretary of State, you recalled the decisions taken in 2011. During your visit to Holland, you realized that there was a problem because Belgian citizens are going to settle in that country because the rights to family reunification are less in Belgium than in other European countries, so it is not possible for them to live with us with their partner. Mr Secretary of State, do you intend to amend the law on family reunification so that Belgians can be treated like other Europeans?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic118x.u101	No.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic118x.u102	This means that discrimination against Belgians will continue under the Michel government. However, you have personally referred to a situation which can be described as discriminatory against Belgians.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic118x.u103	You always talk about discrimination. But the law on family reunification that was passed in this Parliament is not discriminatory. The Constitutional Court has validated the law. By speaking in this way, you are inducing that the Court did not mean that it was discrimination.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic118x.u104	I'll take the word off.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic118x.u105	This law has been adapted and validated by the Constitutional Court. Speaking of which, you offend the magistrates!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic118x.u106	Secretary of State, I repeat your remarks. You explained that Europeans had wider rights. In doing so, are you going to take steps to ensure that Belgians can have the same rights as Europeans to family reunification?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic118x.u107	My position is clear. The discussion I had with Mr. Teven was on another point. Even by adapting the law on family reunification, as you wish, the problem of the België-route will not be solved.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic118x.u108	I will come back to the matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic118x.u109	Mr President, we have a Secretary of State who likes to travel to some countries and all the questions I want to ask him touch on some countries, and I would like to know the reasons for that. Today it is Albania and the repatriation of illegal Albanians. In La Capitale du 22 janvier, we learn that he is in Albania. He said he had been very successful and sent a message to the Albanians: "Belgium is not a country of cocagne, so it's no use wasting your time and money trying to get asylum there, often on the basis of false attestations about alleged vendettas of which applicants would be victims." This message would have been perfectly received by the Albanians. Indeed, a very low rate of recognition: 86% refusal, not to mention regularizations for humanitarian or medical reasons with 98% refusal. There is therefore very little recognition of Albanian asylum seekers. There are currently 6,721 Albanians, according to October 2014 figures, who legally reside in our country. Nearly 5,000 have a definitive authorisation, representing 0.41% of the foreign population in Belgium. You want to multiply the flights of returnees; rather one per month than one per quarter and not just to Albania, of course. Every year Belgium issues 70,000 orders to leave the territory, sometimes several orders are issued to the same individual according to your comments. On the basis of this information, my questions are as follows. Why this particular targeting of Albanian nationals? What are the budgets at your disposal to carry out this operation? You focus, you say, on those who disturb public order because you don't have the means to repatriate everyone. What is the cost of these accelerated procedures? Are they not likely to lead to differential treatment, particularly at the level of remedies?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic118x.u110	Honourable member, Mr Kir, in my capacity as Secretary of State, I am concerned about any nationality that does not comply sufficiently with the order to leave the country, persons who commit offences against public order and rejected asylum seekers who do not voluntarily leave the country. In this there is no exclusivity as to nationality. However, it is important to note that some groups deserve special attention in policy matters, either because they are suddenly experiencing an exceptional evolution in asylum figures or because they occupy a remarkable place in other statistics. Secure flights will be organised to several countries and not only to the Balkans. In your question, you refer to accelerated procedures. However, I cannot deduce from your question the procedures you are talking about. If you are referring to the increase in secure flights, I can tell you that they are financed as follows: the resources that are provided by the budget, EU grants and Frontex grants are used. Thanks to a legal amendment that I introduced on 19 December, Frontex flights are financially more attractive because a recovery of 80% of the costs incurred is planned, which is no longer paid to the Treasury but to the Office of Foreigners, so that it can reinvest these amounts again. The right of appeal is guaranteed to everyone.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic118x.u111	Mr President, Mr Franken said that it was not just the Balkans. If I may, I will therefore ask my question about Kosovo, which is in connection with the question on Albania.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic118x.u112	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, "Belgium, host land for refugees, land of pitfalls for the Kosovars", was in essence the unequivocal message during your visit to Kosovo in March. According to your comments, over the past six months, the number of Kosovars who have emigrated has been estimated at 50,000, of whom 35,000 have emigrated since December. More than 1,000 people leave their countries every day, with a strong increase in the number of asylum seekers by December 2014. According to Frontex, the European Agency for Security and External Borders of the European Union, Kosovo has the largest number of citizens seeking European asylum for a population of about two million inhabitants, more numerous than Syrians and Afghans gathered together, whose countries are at war. According to figures from the Office of Foreigners, in 2014, 494 Kosovars applied to Belgium for asylum, almost forty per month. In January 2015, this number rose to seventy-two and none-two in February. Kosovo now ranks fifth among the countries with the largest number of asylum-seekers in Belgium. Having said that, I think that we must also look at the decisions taken in relation to these raw figures. According to the information available to me – you will confirm it in your reply – I note that not far from 25% of the applications submitted by Kosovar nationals are the subject of a positive decision. 25% of refugee recognition for a country deemed safe, it's not nothing! The same ratio would apply to multiple applications, with about a quarter actually taking into account. You explained earlier that you wanted to go to countries that did not comply enough. Will you continue to visit these countries, despite the poor results of your policies and those of your predecessors, as rightly pointed out by the figures of the Office of Foreigners? Why is this targeting of Kosovars? Should we not simply review the list of safe countries and consider a real cross-cutting policy across Europe? Do you establish your list of safe countries based on objective criteria regarding the situation of applicants? Or, in the end, is this only a way of holding back the demands of the nationals of countries that you consider too many, regardless of the reality of the recognitions after examination of the files?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic118x.u113	The government agreement states that Belgium will continue its deterrent campaigns to prevent the arrival of applicants with little or no chance of being recognised. I am continuing the action of the previous government and wish to inform potential migrants in their countries of origin of the real chances of success and the risks associated with irregular migration to Belgium. These prevention campaigns in the Balkans have a tangible effect. Belgium is no longer faced with a massive influx of asylum seekers from these countries. Now Germany, Sweden and Hungary have the highest number of asylum seekers from the Balkans. Mr Kir, you say that the rate of recognition is 25%, but it is 15.9%. My missions are based on serious analysis to see if the campaign can really bring about a change. These analyses are carried out objectively and do not target nationalities but rather flows of people who come to Belgium to seek asylum despite the fact that the probability of obtaining asylum is very low. I am doing this in order to be able to focus on the real refugees who need an immediate response, as well as on the duped migrants who imagine that they have their chance here. Finally, the fact that countries such as Albania and Serbia are exempt from visa requirements and that we have to remind the public and the authorities of their rights and obligations also plays a role in this context. My request for an opinion on safe countries for the attention of the Office of the Commissioner-General for Refugees and Stateless Persons, including an assessment of the situation of certain countries, including Kosovo, is based on a review of the composition of the lists of safe countries as they exist in other Member States of the European Union. There is no European list of safe countries and for a variety of reasons it is not possible to establish one. The assessment of this aspect therefore remains an individual competence of the Member States. In deciding which countries will actually be included in the list of safe countries, the federal government will take into account the elements contained in the CGRA opinions. I am confident that the CGRA will provide an in-depth assessment in its opinions based on very reliable information on the situation in the countries of origin. There are still differences in the criteria that Member States apply to the extent that, for the processing of asylum applications, several Member States can maintain legislation that was in force on 1 December 2005, prior to the procedure directive, to determine at national level which third countries will be considered safe countries of origin and under what conditions. I would like to point out that the law establishes objective criteria and procedures for the drafting and application of a list of safe countries of origin under the Belgian asylum procedure. These have been implemented in accordance with international provisions, whether the Geneva Convention or the Directive on Minimum Standards, concerning the procedure for granting and withdrawing refugee status in the Member States. I would also point out that the rules on safe countries of origin in Belgium are absolutely not contradictory with a detailed individual examination of each asylum application. Similarly, in accordance with these regulations, every asylum-seeker who actually needs it can always rely on protection, either through the recognition of refugee status or the granting of subsidiary protection status.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic118x.u114	Mr. President, Mr. Franken, thank you. You talked about the tangible effects of the policies you are carrying out. I have the feeling that you are traveling in many countries with a very strong message. We sometimes wonder whether the message is intended for nationals of these countries, or rather for certain people in Belgium who are waiting for this type of speech. The figures show an increase in the number of Kosovars per month. I don't see where the tangible effect is. The rate of 25% is derived from the figures of the Office of Foreigners. It's not about my numbers. You're telling me it's 15.9 percent. There is a monthly increase in the number of Kosovars' applications. 40 per month in 2014, there was an increase to 72 and then to 92 in February.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic118x.u115	And now 36.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic118x.u116	There may be a minimal effect. What I regret is the very spectacular side of your policy. It is a country that is on the brink of economic abyss and is experiencing a social disaster. Shouldn't it be the government's overall work, with economic skills, economic and social cooperation, to try to help these countries develop? Your message falls within your competence, I know. But should we not, when we travel to these countries, go there with a comprehensive programme to help? Because just coming to them with a message, I admit it's a little short. Rather, we have the impression that this message is intended for Belgians, to give the impression that problems will be solved by making one or the other trip. I am still hungry in relation to the figures, as the figures I have indicate the opposite. The figures are on the rise. Maybe after this trip there will be an effect, but it will be minimal. You know, it is the economic situation, the human distress that causes the Kosovars to leave their country. Nobody likes to leave their country.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic118x.u117	Mr President, do we complete the agenda or do we proceed until what time?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic118x.u118	Mr Secretary of State, I would prefer to continue until 12:30.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic118x.u119	Mrs De Coninck has been waiting here since the beginning of the sitting.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic118x.u120	I would like to turn my own questions with Nos 3118 and 3119 into a written question. Mrs Jadin has her question No. 2934 also converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic118x.u121	Mr. President, Mr. Franken likes to travel. He said he was planning a new trip to Morocco with his colleague. Today, he wants to tackle Moroccans who have paper problems. Secretary of State, La Capitale newspaper of January 22nd said: "Francken wants to expel the Moroccan illegals. This applies to 2,970 people in Belgium. The Secretary of State will visit Morocco to discuss the modalities of their departure. The file has been dragging on for ten years." Indeed, you want to find an agreement with Morocco to organize illegal repatriations. By definition, however, the number of persons residing illegally on Belgian territory is impossible to quantify accurately. However, there are some official figures to draw trends. Eurostat, the Directorate-General for Statistical Information of the European Commission, has statistics for each Member State of the European Union recording the number of third-country nationals found in an illegal situation. In 2013, according to these estimates, 2,970 Moroccans were found illegally staying on Belgian territory. According to Eurostat, 6,405 Moroccans were ordered to leave the country in 2013. All nationalities are referred to as 47,465 persons who have been the subject of such an injunction. Another interesting source of data remains Fedasil, the federal agency responsible for the reception of asylum seekers and voluntary return programs. Here, we are told that in 2014, there were 69 voluntary departures from Morocco to their country of origin, compared to 2,970. We are also told that these candidates for voluntary departure are usually persons who were in Belgium without a residence permit rather than asylum seekers. On the basis of this information, Mr Secretary of State, what are the motivations that lead you today to carry out a specific action for the Moroccan undocumented? What budgets will you allocate to carry out this operation? Are you not afraid, in the current climate, of further stigmatizing communities, especially the Moroccan community, as another member of your government has pointed out? Koen Geens said to La Libre: "It is not wise to stigmatise Moroccans and Turks."
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic118x.u122	Mr. Kir, you're using very heavy words. I don't attack Moroccans, Albanians or Kosovars.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic118x.u123	I wasn't talking about physically attacking. I used these words more in the sense of "carrying out", "addressing a problem". It's not in the "aanvallen" sense. It's not aggressive. I'm not saying you're attacking the Moroccans unless you tell me you're going to do it!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic118x.u124	No, I won't, because I'm not going to attack them. Honourable member, Mr Kir, in my capacity as Secretary of State, I focus on anyone of any nationality who does not comply sufficiently with the order to leave the territory. Second, they are people who are waiting for public order. Finally, rejected asylum seekers who do not voluntarily leave the country are concerned. In this respect, no nationality is intended exclusively. However, some groups deserve special attention either because they are suddenly undergoing an exceptional development in view of the asylum figures or because they occupy a remarkable place in other statistics. Secure flights will be organized to several countries. As far as Morocco is concerned, secure repatriation flights are not planned, as there is no agreement with the Moroccan authorities in this regard. The budgetary resources granted by the European Union – this is the case with Frontex's subsidy – are being used. Thanks to a legislative amendment I introduced on 19 December, Frontex flights are financially more attractive, as 80% of the costs incurred are expected to be recovered. It is no longer paid to the public treasury, but allocated. In this way, the amounts can be reinvested. Contrary to what is stated in your question, there is therefore no reason for stigmatization.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic118x.u125	I am surprised at your haste in the communication you delivered to a Belgian daily. You say that you will resort to the expulsion of 2,970 people, while you have not reached an agreement with the Moroccan government.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic118x.u126	For secure flights, Mr. Kir. Repatriations to Morocco take place almost every day, but not special flights.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic118x.u127	You're disclosing a figure to public opinion. However, when we look at the number of Moroccans who have been repatriated on a voluntary basis, we reach sixty-nine people. How do you get 2,970 returnees?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic118x.u128	This will certainly not be possible for everyone, but we have said that we are focusing on those who have committed crimes and offences. We will consult with the Moroccan authorities, but every week repatriations are carried out via the Royal Air Aroc airline. For secure flights, it is not always easy to obtain passes. We can discuss it again next week. We're working on this. Prior to 2006, Morocco accepted secure flights from Belgium. However, neighbouring countries have done the same. In the face of this massive flow, the Moroccan government has finished with this.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic118x.u129	I understand the issue of secure flights, but you're throwing a figure into public opinion. In fact, it's unfeasible! If you were to repatriate 69 people in a full year and double that figure, that's one thing, but to repatriate 2,970, it's entertainment politics that has no basis. In order to reach your figure, you have to explain to me today the means that you will be able to do this and I do not see them at all. Indeed, we will return to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic118x.u130	Mrs. Zakia Khattabi is absent and did not warn. Pursuant to Article 127.10, its question No 2844 shall be deemed to have been withdrawn. Questions No 2934 by Mrs Kattrin Jadin and No 3081 by Mr Emir Kir are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic118x.u131	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, as part of my parliamentary work, I have had the opportunity to visit the Caricole Transit Centre in order to see the conditions of detention of illegal migrants and asylum seekers pending their removal or their authorization to enter. This centre, of which we can only sincerely praise the organization, remains, however, perfectable, especially in the practical management of the rights of the residents. In fact, INADS residents (about 45 per cent of residents), asylum seekers at the border (about 40 per cent of residents), asylum seekers in the territory (about 5 per cent of residents), illegals (about 10 per cent of residents) enjoy the following rights: the right to be informed about the reason for the conflict, the right to legal assistance, the right to medical and psychological assistance, the right to communicate, the right to moral and religious assistance, the right to leisure and general development, the right to material well-being and hygiene. In so doing, upon arrival at the centre, a social worker shall explain to the resident, in a language which he understands, the reason for his detention; the legal provisions and regulations to which he is subject and the possibilities of recourse. If necessary, an interpreter is used by telephone. Unfortunately, interpreters are lacking, thus preventing residents from fully enjoying their rights, as required by article 17 of the Royal Decree of 2002. According to the latter "the director of the centre, his replacement or a member of the staff whom he designates shall specify to the occupant the reasons for his detention, for his making available to the Government or for its maintenance, the legal and regulatory provisions to which he is subject, as well as possible remedies against that decision. This takes place in a language that the occupant understands. If necessary, an interpreter shall be employed." This situation is regrettable, since it causes trouble as to the regularity of decisions taken at the border. A legal problem can arise. Indeed, statistics show that of the 508 applications identified in 2012, 108 were the subject of a positive decision (granting subsidiary protection or refugee status), i.e. about 20%. One might wonder whether the rejected applications would not have found a more favourable outcome for the applicants if they had been able to avail themselves of the right to translation conferred upon them by law at the time of the submission of their application, which is also in necessarily difficult circumstances, at the time of their transfer to the transit centre. Mr Secretary of State, is there an assessment of the obstacles encountered today? What initiatives are being taken to resolve this shortage of available translators?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic118x.u132	Honourable member, Mr. Kir, the Caricole Centre, as well as the other closed centres run by the Foreign Office, attach great importance to providing correct information to new residents. To this end, various visual and auditory tools have been developed and brochures have been issued. These documents are available in the most common languages, which are extended according to possible changes in needs. In concrete terms, with regard to the information on the operation of the centre and the existing procedures, during the intake (nut-reason), residents are placed in possession of an internal regulation detailing the operation of the centre, the services offered – including the medical service, the functioning of the social team, the activities of educators, etc. – the practice of worship, the complaint procedure, the possibility of contact with the outside world, etc. These rules of procedure are available in five languages and other languages are being prepared. Staff verbally provide additional explanations and answer any questions. In addition, fact sheets in twenty-one languages are available on the complaint procedure, pro deo lawyers and NGO visits. A DVD available in sixteen languages also serves as an information tool for illiterate residents or those who do not understand the above-mentioned cards, using audio media. For asylum seekers, a specific brochure on asylum has been published by the European Commission. It is available in sixteen languages. If, however, residents claim that they do not understand the information, the centre uses a telephone interpreter service or uses staff or other residents. As regards the treatment of the asylum procedure, the competent service will always use an interpreter, if the resident so wishes or if the competent service finds that the resident does not have sufficient knowledge of the language chosen. In conclusion, for the examination of the asylum application, an interpreter is made available if necessary. I'm very glad you visited the Caricole Centre. I also made this visit when I was a member of the House. It is very important and I respect this reception centre deeply. It is by going there that we realize the reality of the field.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic118x.u133	You're right. There's nothing like going there. I said it in my speech, you read me and you listened to me. It is an exemplary centre for its operation. It is brand new and the team working on it has an extremely professional approach, which respects the other. As far as interpreters are concerned, are you going to make an effort?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic118x.u134	I didn't know the problem, but I'm going to talk to my DG about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic118x.u135	Many people do not have the opportunity to have an interpreter, which weakens the law; there may be remedies arguing that the law is not being respected.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic118x.u136	Mr Kir, would you like to turn your question No 3088 into a written question or would you like to ask it at a future meeting?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic118x.u137	Mr President, I wish to postpone it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic118x.u138	Debates of the European Parliament 3104 by Mrs Monica De Coninck and questions Nos 3118 and 3119 by myself will be converted into written questions.
