ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-24-54-commissie-ic125x.u1	Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we will begin this marathon session. I would remind you of the drastic conditions of our work: we will confine ourselves to what is provided for in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-24-54-commissie-ic125x.u2	Madam Minister, this question concerns infrastructure charges at Infrabel. That discussion is not new and is regularly discussed. That happened the other day when the CEOs were invited here. According to SNCB, road charges for passenger trains are on the high side. In addition, there is the station charge: each train stops at a station, a charge has to be paid. Sometimes this amounts to 82% of the total fee. In addition, there is also the overnight allowance: for a train waiting for the tracks at night, SNCB must pay to Infrabel. As said in this house, there are perverse effects. Trains with the highest capacity pay in principle the least, because they also stop the least. For national trains which stop frequently, this will incur additional costs. Perverse in this system is that the less a train stops, the cheaper it is for SNCB. In the context of the mobility vision, this does not seem very good for rural municipalities. I have a number of specific questions and my written statement states that some of them can be answered in writing. Firstly, what is the Minister's view on these high road charges? Secondly, how are road charges calculated? Is this the same for all lines or are there differences between lines A, B or C? Thirdly, how are station charges calculated? Is there a distinction between the stops, small stations and large stations? Fourthly, how are the nights calculated? Does this have to do with the kind of material? Fifthly, how can the difference between freight and passenger trains be explained? Or can't this be explained? Sixthly, will a new royal decision be taken on the recalculation of road charges and infrastructure charges? Infrabel's income questions can be answered in writing via lane fees and SNCB's share. Finally, are there any meetings and studies known to reform the system in the context of the preparation of the discussion of the management agreement? The CEO of Infrabel said here two weeks ago that if this is the case, he should seek resources elsewhere, but he would look into it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-24-54-commissie-ic125x.u3	Mr President, Mr Geerts, as stated in the government statement and in my general policy paper, road charges should not be a brake on the use of railway infrastructure, passenger transport or freight transport. The way in which the path fee is calculated is explained in detail in Infrabel's network statement, to be consulted freely on the company's website. For most lines of the rail network, the path fee consists of the train path straight line and the train path straight installation. For a limited number of lines which can be separated from the rest of the rail network and whose operationalisation can be transferred to the carriers, a ranger line applies. As announced in my general policy paper, I am working on the reform of infrastructure charges. To this end, I have the FPS Mobility and Transport, in collaboration with an external consultant and in consultation with a selection of stakeholders, currently conducting a study to optimize the usage fee for the railway infrastructure. In 2014, the Infrabel has a total rounding of EUR 676 578 000. This accounted for 87% of domestic passenger transport, 8% of international passenger transport and 5% of freight transport. On the basis of the 2013 accounts published by SNCB, the usage fee in the public service field amounts to almost 30% of total expenditure. If we take all the activities of SNCB together, this ratio is almost 66%.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-24-54-commissie-ic125x.u4	Mr President, Minister, thank you for the clarity of the figures. That's important. I asked this question because I know the assignment for the study was given to the FOD. We just want sensible decisions to be made in the debate that has yet to take place on the basis of transparent figures.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-24-54-commissie-ic125x.u5	Mr President, Minister, when I was contacted about the Comics Station Antwerp project, I also had to look up what it means. It was therefore new for me to learn that, in the context of the operation of the Antwerp-Central station, a number of projects were launched to combat the vacancy, and rightly so. Comics Station Antwerp is one of them. The other day there was an exhibition with dinosaurs. Today there is a project that should generate 300 000 visitors at a cost of eight million euros for the start-up, in which both the City of Antwerp and the SNCB participate. However, there has been some delay because there seems to be a technical discussion with SNCB about whether or not to start the project. SNCB would have designated a retail specialist to counter the empty position at the back of the central station. Madam Secretary, what are the reasons for the delays in the Comics Station Antwerp project? How much money does SNCB participate for? What construction does that take? Who is the retail specialist who designated SNCB for the activation of the empty position and the start of a shopping center? What is the current empty position? Are the plans for Comics Station Antwerp together with a plan of approach for the empty position at the back of the station Antwerpen-Central?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-24-54-commissie-ic125x.u6	Mr President, SNCB informs me that Comics Station Antwerp has made a sensitive adjustment to the originally agreed project, which means that additional agreements are needed between SNCB and CSA on the technical, financial and organisational aspects. SNCB does not contribute financially to the project and therefore does not take an operating risk. SNCB only makes the space available subject to a fee, in accordance with the usual arrangements in the case of concessions. SNCB did not designate a retail specialist for the creation of an indoor shopping centre. SNCB continues to award all shops in Antwerp-Central by concession after a market consultation and has an internal team at the Stations Executive Board. The emptiness has only to do with various jewellery stores that suffer from the increased gold price and see fewer visitors from abroad. There are now about fifty shops active in Antwerp-Central, including sixteen jewellery stores. There remain about thirty empty shopping premises, which are mainly concentrated in a second part on the side Kievitplein. The project Comics Station Antwerp is indeed on the side of Kievitplein, but not on the location of the empty shops. SNCB therefore expects that the project will have a successful exploitation and will be a public attraction, which will bring more life to the station on the side of Kievitplein.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-24-54-commissie-ic125x.u7	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. I hope, like you, that the empty position can be combated, so that the back of the station leaves a less desolate impression.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-24-54-commissie-ic125x.u8	Minister, the Communal Council of the City of Ottignies - -Louvain-la-Neuve has recently unanimously voted on a motion calling for compliance with the budgetary commitments made under SNCB's and Infrabel's Multiannual Investment Plan (PIP). I will quickly brush the situation of the Ottignies station, which has not been up to its attractive character for several years. With about 22,000 daily climbs and as many passengers passing through it, it is indeed more frequented than those of Namur, Liège or Mons. Despite this, it benefited only 60 million from the plan referred to above. By the way, this amount is less, and by far less, than the amount that was allocated to the station of Mons, which received 200 million. Next, the vast redevelopment project of the Ottignies station and its surroundings was defined in a masterplan in partnership between the City, SNCB and Infrabel. The study carried out by the Eurogare office began in 2011-2012. Contacts with SNCB Holding – notably with its Managing Director – and Infrabel have multiplied to anticipate the impact in terms of urbanization of the arrival of the RER and its impact on land. EUR 60 million have been entered in the IPP. In addition, the first work on refurbishing the car parks is expected to begin in 2017. The savings plan decided by your government can in no way prejudice this fundamental project for Wallonia and many citizens. It represents a strategic point on the link between Brussels and Wallonia. It is in this context that the authorities of the commune, in all colours, question the actors in the file via this motion. Beyond this masterplan, users visiting the Ottignies station must also survey old and dangerous wharfs. I invite you to go through them. In addition, they are unsuitable for new trains. Unfortunately, the renovation of the wharfs depends on the redevelopment of the track beam, which itself depends on the RER site - which would have progressed rather well. Minister, my two questions will be very simple, but very important. Can you tell us whether the proposed redevelopment of the Ottignies station area, which was included in the Multi-annual Investment Plan (PPI), is well maintained within the time frame and the financial commitments planned? Do you not think that a project of such importance to Wallonia should be dealt with seriously and quickly? What are the deadlines set by Infrabel for the construction of the wharfs at the Ottignies station? Can you give us more details on the planning of the work?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-24-54-commissie-ic125x.u9	(...) will soon be developed taking into account a full analysis of the needs related to budgetary availability. I will be attentive to the positive development of the redevelopment of the Ottignies station. Every effort will be made to support its implementation in the new IPP. However, according to SNCB, it is essential to have the certainty that the public partners, the City and the Walloon Region, declare their inclusion in the project, both at the technical level and at the level of the financial schedules, and strongly confirm their involvement. As regards the work at the wharfs, these are included in the work for the ER on line 161.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-24-54-commissie-ic125x.u10	Madam Minister, thank you. For the rest, I'm doubly surprised. First, as I ask you to confirm what was planned in the IPP, you ask the City and the Region to confirm, while the City has just voted unanimously. You answer a question with another question. Secondly, I cannot, like the conveyors, tell me that the City of Ottignies and the Ottignies station, in the state in which it is, all political forces combined, will only be able to wait for what you have already announced for some time, namely a "redevelopment" of the PPI. You will understand that, in these circumstances, I will remain particularly attentive to this strategic dossier for the Wallonia-Brussels rail route.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-24-54-commissie-ic125x.u11	Madam Minister, in February 2015, we already talked about suicide on the tracks. In 2014, there were 200 suicide attempts in which 97 people unfortunately lost their lives and 24 were seriously injured. This is a strong increase compared to 2013. At that time, additional initiatives were announced to try to halt the rising trend.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-24-54-commissie-ic125x.u12	A project would be developed with a privileged contact with Securail for local residents of risk lines. A special telephone number would be installed so that an act of despair could be avoided. What are the risk lines? How will the neighbors contact Securail? How many teams does Securail consist of? The day after, Infrabel denied in a small message that the poject with neighborhood residents would start. Is there such a project or not? If so, what exactly does the project entail?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-24-54-commissie-ic125x.u13	These are line sections rather than complete lines. In Flanders it concerns sections of lines 69, 89, 75 and 66 in the region of Kortrijk, Ypres and Menen; lines 25 and 27 in Duffel and Mortsel; and line 59 in Lokeren. In Wallonia it concerns lines 162 and 154 in Dave-Saint-Martin and Jambes; and the line 139 in Waver. In Brussels it concerns the section of the Ruisbroek/Vorst-East line 124 and Anderlecht line 50A. The free emergency number for the public 0800/30230 has been available since 2008 to allow passengers to report emergencies or suspicious situations on the railway domain 24 hours a day and seven days a day. As a traveller or neighborhood resident that emergency number is, he or she comes to the NMBS Security Operations Center, where a security agent of Securail is speaking to him or her. The operator at the Security Operations Center asks specific questions to do the exact positioning. The operator will contact the Railway Operations Center directly for any preventive measures for train traffic. The nearest team of Securail or police service is sent on site to intercept the persons. Securail has 18 teams.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-24-54-commissie-ic125x.u14	Madam Minister, I am particularly familiar with the problems in my region, particularly in the areas of Duffel and Mortsel. Any additional initiative is to be welcomed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-24-54-commissie-ic125x.u15	Mr. Laurent Devin referred questions Nos. 2644 and 2645.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-24-54-commissie-ic125x.u16	Madam Minister, I noted that although the punctuality of the trains on paper improved slightly in 2014. In itself, that's good news. Unfortunately, however, we see that progress is not continuing in all other areas. For example, there is no doubt that there is still work to be done on the number of abandoned trains and on track safety. Your policy paper clearly states that the results of the performance measures to be included in the new management contract with SNCB and Infrabel, and in particular this for punctuality, will be directly linked to the variable wage of management. Now that these new management contracts have been postponed until the autumn, this should not prevent you from rewarding the CEOs and the directors of both companies on a variable basis according to their performance. Madam Minister, first of all, what are the results for the variable remuneration of the management of the SNCB Group for 2014? Secondly, the savings imposed should not be an excuse to make concessions on the performance that the top of the group should achieve. How will you ensure that the variable remuneration of the management of both companies will be matched to the actual performance in 2015?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-24-54-commissie-ic125x.u17	Mr President, I had prepared a bilingual answer, as Mr Devin would also ask a question on this. The rules on variable remuneration at SNCB are the responsibility of the Board of Directors. The Committee approved a new system of variable remuneration. This system provides that the variable remuneration of management staff is linked to the company's performance. The overall envelope is determined by this collective outcome and the individual variable remuneration also depends on this collective outcome. The collective result depends on three key performance indicators (KPI): recurring EBITDA cash, unneutralised punctuality and customer satisfaction. These three KPIs are weighted as follows: EBITDA: 30%; punctuality: 40%; passenger satisfaction: 30%. This system is also applicable to Directors-General. It will have to be subject to additional measures under the next management contract. As regards Infrabel, the calculation of the variable remuneration of the members of the Management Committee, based on the results of 2014, is under preparation. As determined by law, the salaries of members of the Management Committee will be published in the annual report for shareholders. Work is currently under way on the definition of the objectives by the members of the Infrabel Management Committee for 2015. They will be submitted to the Management Board shortly. So you can see that the management bodies of the companies, as the government wanted them to, ensure that the wages of the senior management are proportionate to the performance of the companies.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-24-54-commissie-ic125x.u18	Madam Secretary, I am pleased to note that people are working. I have not always heard specific examples. You also responded very quickly. I shall therefore await the report. In any case, I remembered that 2014 is in preparation and will soon be published in the annual report. For 2015, there is a proposal to the Governing Board. That's good. We have to go through with it. There is a great deal of waste in the SNCB Group, as you have said on several occasions. There's still a lot of fat on the soup. We can and still have to cut into the variable remuneration of management. We clearly do not do this in terms of quality and safety. The linking of management's pay to the results will have a positive effect on the well-being of travellers. I support your ambition to make this work effective and concrete.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-24-54-commissie-ic125x.u19	Mr President, Minister, the Dutch province of Limburg has submitted a request for funding to the European Commission for research into better cross-border rail links. It would be a grant of EUR 5 million. There are also two connections with Belgium: Brussels-Leuven-Liège-Maastricht and Antwerp-Hamont-Weert. The Dutch province of Limburg has already received statements of support from various quarters. Among other things, the governments of North Rhine-Westphalia, the German and Dutch ministries of Transport and NS International expressed their support for the initiative. Do you agree with the importance of good cross-border train connections for the economic development of the Euroregion? Will you support the grant application from the Dutch province of Limburg? Will you submit a statement of support to the European Commission?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-24-54-commissie-ic125x.u20	Mr President, I would like to emphasise that for the regional networks of cross-border transport, such as Eurométropole, Euregio Meuse-Rhine and Euregio Saar-Lor-Lux, an integrated approach to public transport is crucial. I would also refer to my policy paper, which I presented to the Chamber at the end of November, and in which I deal with this issue. Indeed, at the end of February 2015, the Dutch province of Limburg submitted a European grant application for research into better cross-border rail links. These are the IC connections Düsseldorf-Venlo-Eindhoven and Cologne-Aachen-Heerlen-Eindhoven and the train connections Brussels-Leuven-Liège-Maastricht and Antwerp-Hamont-Weert. The study looks, among other things, at the necessary infrastructure, safety systems, social security, the frequency of the timetable, the form of ticket sales and the necessary train equipment. The latter is necessary because the Netherlands, Germany and Belgium have different voltages on the overhead contact line. Another essential feature of the study is to highlight the added value of the coherent package of the various connections. So far I have not received any requests for support for this project, but if they are forthcoming, I will respond favourably.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-24-54-commissie-ic125x.u21	Mr President, Minister, my province of Limburg lies between three strong and important economic regions: the Dutch Randstad, the Flemish Ruit and the German Ruhr region. The Limburg economy, on the other hand, is struggling, you know the story of our province. The SALK demonstrated that poor rail access is an obstacle to further economic development. I have already questioned you on several occasions about this for the Limburgers and for the Limburg companies, both within the province and across borders. The European request for funding from the province of North Limburg is an initiative which deserves full support. The train link Antwerpen-Weert will be investigated. I have already shown you that the passenger potential exists and that the financial picture is good. The extension of the railway line to Weert could almost be cost-neutral. The Dutch province of Limburg is asking party and has already set aside funds. Together with the Netherlands, we can organise passenger transport with relatively little cost. That is, of course, a small first step towards the Iron Rhine. Madam Minister, I would once again like to make a warm plea that you would include this in your next multi-annual investment plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-24-54-commissie-ic125x.u22	Questions No 2706 by Mr David Geerts and No 2713 by Mr Benoit Hellings are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-24-54-commissie-ic125x.u23	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, one cannot open a newspaper, or there are reports about the war at the top of SNCB. Also on 6 March, a few weeks ago, a letter was reported that Mr Cornu had sent in response to the problems he was experiencing with Mr Fontinoy, chairman of the SNCB Board of Directors. According to Mr Cornu, Mr Fontinoy went too far with SNCB and, in particular, with Eurostation and the real estate projects. He would also proceed in a different way, in particular by means of an unregulated road, as was stated in De Morgen. A dubious real estate deal was also quoted in India, involving Eurostation and a local partner receiving a commission of 35%. Madam Minister, I think that is serious enough and I would like to ask you four questions. First of all, do you acknowledge the existence of that letter? Secondly, can you explain the content of that letter? Thirdly, can you confirm that a local partner has received a 35% commission from Eurostation? Fourthly, how do you respond to that problematic situation?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-24-54-commissie-ic125x.u24	Mr President, I would like to say a few words in advance. Mrs. De Coninck makes allusion to the audit and project in India. I have also tabled a question on this subject, which is on item 31. Can I deal with that question together with this question, or should I deal with my question No. Put it separately under item 31?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-24-54-commissie-ic125x.u25	Can you put those questions together for the Minister? [[Assent]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-24-54-commissie-ic125x.u26	Thanks for that. Mr President, Minister, Mrs De Coninck has already given an introduction to what has appeared in the newspapers. Those reports have actually destroyed me, and I found it very remarkable that these accusations should be made and that war should also be fought publicly. If such a conflict arises, I personally think it would be best for the chairman of the Management Board to step aside through an additional convened board of directors. I would like to stress that I do not rule on guilt or innocence. However, I am thinking of the functioning of the public sector and of the relationship between the management committee and the CEO with the management board. Stepping aside seems to me the best thing to do. Now the internal feud may get the upper hand in the business, rather than the attention goes to the traveller. That is my personal view and others should disagree with it. For the company itself, I think that is the best solution. Now I come to my questions about the content of the letter. First of all, is its content correct? What is your view on this, because I assume that the content is not obvious to you either? Secondly, what is your view on the functioning of the Chairman of the Management Board? I read that it also has a cabinet. Normally, the chairman of the board of directors, both in private companies and in public companies, has an employee to better monitor the Presidency, but I understand from the letter that this would be a shadow cabinet that looks at all the decisions of the management committee in addition. Is that right? Is there such a cabinet? How much are the staff costs? To what extent does the duplication of the management committee by the chairman's cabinet make it difficult for the company to operate? Thirdly and finally, what actions have you taken to restore a serene environment in which everyone deals with their jobs, in particular to ensure that trains run smoothly, safely and comfortably? I will link my second question on Eurostation to this. I'll be brief. I've already talked about the contents of the letter. I do have some additional questions about the project itself. If I understand correctly, the project is on start but has not yet been executed. The 35 percent commission would be collected when the land is validated. I thought that this type of investment should take into account delicier risk derivatives, but apparently this was not the case here. As I have always said, I have nothing against subsidiaries, but they have to contribute something. The question arises as to whether the subsidiary of a public company should have this as its mission? I wonder what the added value of this is. Who will perform the external audit? Will Mr Fontinoy's involvement be investigated? When can the concrete results of this audit be expected? What criteria were used to designate the auditor?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-24-54-commissie-ic125x.u27	Mr. Chair, Minister, I tabled an inquiry into what I described as a serious governance problem within the SNCB. The words were chosen and weighed to the extent that a letter from the employer of the Railways, Mr Cornu, to the Chairman of the Board of Directors, Mr Fontinoy, was made public. In this letter, I quote, there was a reference to "magaws in the attribution of studies and possible corruption in a real estate transaction in India". This is an exchange of friendships at the top of SNCB's governing structures, with very little collegial comments, respective grievances, confrontations. In the political world, such clashes are commonplace, but in public enterprises, it is a little rarer and it is quite happy. These conflicts and disputes can do nothing good, certainly not for travellers. After the economic measures, a new case struck the SNCB with negative consequences for the future of the company, for its workers, for its users. This letter referred to the problem of the Eurostation subsidiary and had a number of developments. Since the filing of this inquiry, more than 15 days ago – this commission has not had a particularly fast pace to deal with issues – a decision by the Eurostation Board of Directors has deprived it of its highest responsibility. Since then, as if we had touched an ant nest, it's going a little in all directions. We therefore wonder what is happening in this structure, which particularly affects the SNCB Group. We hear a little less about Infrabel, but we wonder what's going on at SNCB. Minister, you are the appropriate minister and within this framework, you have at your disposal the management contract and an ability to intervene. It may be added that a certain amount of information has been revealed, in particular with regard to the somewhat curious choices made, among other things, by the CEO of SNCB. We learn that he intends, with the support of this board of directors – all this is therefore extremely "regular" – to appoint a financial consultant, who was the former n° 2 of the "house" to do a job which, in principle, had to be the work of the one who was appointed and who will soon occupy the place at the SNCB. It also comes from a ministerial cabinet. So he's not here yet. One has the right to question the type of contract and its amount, which is still not insignificant since it exceeds the figure fixed by the previous government for the employer's salary. It was already known that, in this company, a number of middle managers earned more than the boss. In this case, we continue, even if it is only for one year and even if it is in place of access to the pension. All this is a little messy! Next, we learn that at the level of the appointment of government commissioners, there are things that are moving. If we finish with the requested, expected, supposed renewal of the boards of directors, both SNCB and Infrabel - following one or other resignation or inclination of a particular party that now finds itself in government, to have its own representatives and other questions - we are entitled, Madam Minister, to question the governance within this group that has so many difficulties and mobility challenges to solve. Minister, do you intend to seriously investigate – I insist on the "seriously" – both the mutual accusations that are brought by the senior officials of SNCB between them and the clarity that is required and requested by Mr Cornu on a number of activities, particularly in subsidiaries? This is also a part of your comments on both the number of subsidiaries and their raison d'être. Finally, what transparent operation is possible or not at SNCB? How are you going to implement an internal audit in a house where you sometimes feel that the best episodes of the Borgia series, and I pass some details, are at work on the side of the Midi station? More broadly, Minister, what is the government's position on the composition, on the future functioning of the governing bodies of SNCB and Infrabel, given the elements that are announced (debts, possible replacements) as well as the arrival of representatives of the Regions? That's the last thing I wanted to draw your attention to. You know that in principle we should have representatives of the Regions on the boards of both SNCB and Infrabel. So far, this has not been translated.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-24-54-commissie-ic125x.u28	Madam Minister, Mr Van den Bergh is asking for his similar question. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). [[Assent]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-24-54-commissie-ic125x.u29	Madam Minister, I expressly intended to add this question. The question is so important that it transcends the way questions and answers work. By adding questions, we must be able to have a good exchange of views. The previous speakers have undoubtedly pointed out that it is messing around at the SNCB summit. The tensions between the CEO and the Executive Board, on the one hand, and the Management Board and its Chairman, on the other, have been described in detail in the press over the last few days and weeks. In De Morgen, a letter was leaked and several articles appeared in L.Echo and De Tijd which show that the understanding at the SNCB summit is anything but good, just at a time when that summit has to make a lot of important decisions in view of the current situation with the planned savings operations and the existing operational challenges. At such a time, a very strong and united leadership of SNCB is just in place. I therefore agree with the concerns and questions raised by my fellow Members. I have one specific question. Maybe that's why she was originally disconnected from the other questions or you prepared another answer. The question concerns the award of contracts by the Governing Board. In a normal operation, the power to award contracts is usually delegated to the Executive Board, up to a certain level. In the case of SNCB, all awards still have to be decided by the Governing Board, so that the chairman of the Management Board has a say on everything. Shouldn't consideration be given to setting a limit on the Governing Board's competence in this matter? More clearly defined tasks of the Management Board should be sought, on the one hand, and the Management Committee and the CEO, on the other, in accordance with the Corporate Governance Code for other companies. There's some work on the shelf.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-24-54-commissie-ic125x.u30	Mr President, a number of Members have asked me about the current situation with SNCB, in particular about the latest developments resulting from the letter sent by the SNCB CEO to the chairman of the board of directors, the articles published in the press and the joint press release distributed by the directors and the chairman. You will allow me to answer all these questions in the clearest way possible. I did receive on January 21 a copy of a letter from Jo Cornu to Jean-Claude Fontinoy. For the sake of full transparency, this letter, which can be made available to you in full, was also communicated to the journalist who asked me this Friday, 6 March, about the presumptions of corruption cited by the newspaper De Morgen. I will come back to its content in a few moments. Since taking office on 11 October 2014, the situation of the SNCB Group has asked me a little more every day on various aspects. I quote the organisation, the administration, the management, the efficiency, not to mention efficiency, the relative place that the client occupies. Of course, the purpose of my remarks is not to take a full look at the shortcomings that I see, but simply to place in this context the latest events that you are asking me about. I would also like to say that this same context, which I briefly outline, prompts me to work towards a comprehensive plan for modernisation. But I have no doubt that we will have the opportunity to discuss this in more detail in the near future. Turning more specifically to the events that you are asking me about, I can answer the following. First of all, my office and I have had and have had discussions with Messrs. Cornu and Fontinoy, in a regular and singular way since these last events. By letter dated Monday, 9 March, I urged them to remain within their respective roles and mandates. The Group's long-standing corporate governance rules are under review and I will not refuse to change them if I have to find that they are not appropriate. I do not hide that internal governance has been calling on me since I took office. On the other hand, in view of the overall objective I have set myself and I have already set out in advance, I do not wish to leave in the shadow any element essential to the functioning of the SNCB Group. To date, I do not see enough clarity on the role and functioning of several subsidiaries. As a result, I requested an external audit to respond to decisions taken in a number of files and the financial flows that are the consequences. I am thinking in particular of the subsidiaries Eurogare, Eurostation and Euro Immo Star. To date, I know that the appointment of an audit office is under way and the mission to be entrusted to it is both a financial audit, a risk audit and an audit of internal procedures. More specifically concerning Eurostation and its activities abroad, I have received confirmation that it has developed several activities as a study office abroad. This shows that only the project in Jamaica has been cost-effective. Almost all other projects are in deficit. The Managing Director of SNCB presented a new strategy on Eurostation's activities abroad to its Board of Directors on 30 January. This strategy focuses on the governance of international projects. With regard to the project in India, the aim was to develop land near Indian stations in collaboration with the Indian Railways. Eurostation had to carry out all the studies at its own expense, risk and peril, and then be compensated at the time of the sale of the building rights to promoters. The Management Board of Eurostation of 11 December 2014 decided, on a proposal from the Managing Director of SNCB, that the project had too high a risk and that this dossier should be terminated. As regards the support cell of the Chairman of the Administrative Board and the secretariat of the management bodies, I have received a reply from Mr Cornu detailing the composition of the President's office. The analysis is under way. I'll take my responsibilities if I have to see any excesses. SNCB would therefore be asked to find an appropriate solution internally. A final point which is not intimately linked to these recent events but which one of you is asking me about the composition of the management bodies. To date, I can inform you of the following situation: Luc Joris, a Francophone administrator of SNCB, resigned on February 26. Its replacement should be filled as soon as possible in order for the Council to be validly constituted. A co-optation is under way and will be confirmed at the Board of Directors this Friday. To date, only the Flemish and Brussels regions have sent me the name of their representative in the bodies of SNCB and Infrabel. In the Walloon Region, the item was on the agenda of the Council of Ministers on 19 March. I'm waiting for a formalization of the designations. I will thus be able to conclude completely both on respect for linguistic parity and on gender proportionality. I cannot therefore draw a definitive conclusion at this stage. Mr Geerts, the choice of who will carry out the external audit is made through market consultation under the direction of the SNCB audit committee. The audit should carry out an in-depth analysis of the company's activities and not of the role of a particular person. The intention is to have a report at the beginning of May. The classic criteria are the quality, references and the price. Mr Van den Bergh, in my letter of 9 March, both to the delegate director and to the chairman, I called for serenity because of both drivers in the interests of the railways. Such internal conflicts benefit neither a company nor its staff and its customers. I myself want to concentrate on the future modernisation plan. The road to efficiency and modernisation is the only possible way to define strategies and a vision shared by everyone to ensure a future for the Belgian railway. In line with the current delegation of powers, the Governing Board is responsible for awarding services and supplies from 2.5 million and for works from 7.5 million. Awards for lower cost contracts may be approved by the Management Committee or by sub-delegate by other levels in the undertaking. Moreover, it is not manageable to submit all awards to the Governing Board. It is precisely for this reason that the delegation of powers exists. As you said, generally speaking, things need to improve for a sound management and image of these businesses.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-24-54-commissie-ic125x.u31	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. We have received a lot of information from you here. I only have one reply to summarize the information. What does Eurostation have to do abroad if the need for renovation of Belgian stations is so great? I don't understand that at all. We need to hear here today that Eurostation is doing several projects abroad, of which only one project, Jamaica, has proved profitable. There are other needs here in our country. The whole SNCB Group should concentrate on its core tasks. Perhaps in that case it would not have come this far, that letter might have been superfluous and should never have been sent.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-24-54-commissie-ic125x.u32	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. For the analysis of the audit, I was given a date in early May 2015. The analysis of the functioning of the President's cabinet is now under way. I'm assuming she'll be completed soon. At that time, in your capacity as competent minister, you must draw conclusions from the results of the analysis. That is why I am sticking to my initial remark. When there is an analysis and an audit, I repeat that I am not talking about guilt or innocence in this matter, we think it would be better for the company to function that the chairman of the board of directors would, at that time or not, take a temporary step, depending on the outcome of the audit; it is not up to us to make a judgment. I regret that this has not happened. I hope that it will still take place within the framework of research and for the sake of serenity within the company.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-24-54-commissie-ic125x.u33	Minister, I was pleased to hear you say at the end of your speech that things must improve. That's indisputable! In this respect, many parliamentarians will support you and even insist on returning to the office. Not only must things improve, but they must first be more transparent in relation to a ubiquitous situation. We have the impression that SNCB is like Christopher Columbus: we are looking for India, while we find it difficult to deal with railway station issues in Belgium in areas very close to us. We are far from the issue of rail in Belgium. I look forward to the firmness of your remarks. I will allow myself to return regularly. You could have been a little blurred, you weren't! I also welcome an awareness at the level of the minister responsible and the fact that an external audit is needed to monitor subsidiaries that are involved in building railway stations in India. It's still quite extraordinary! I knew that at SNCB, projects existed for other areas that were sometimes very far from the railway, but in the case we are concerned about, we are in the concrete form of revelations. I, too, will look forward with great interest to the results of both the conduct of the audit and the consequences that will or will not be drawn from it. Indeed, I have the impression that we cannot be content with an audit of this matter and that changes will be necessary. If these were private boxes, these changes would have already taken place! I think there is a real inaction, which is probably due to the weight of history. It's probably an old Belgian story! However, there is a real problem in these companies, which are, in principle, public enterprises, especially in terms of the increase in the number of subsidiaries and the increase in the number of caps. As you have pointed out, quarrels are not only languished but become public, to such an extent that you must, which is quite rare, making public internal mails that a priori were not supposed to be, or am I wrong? We are facing a situation which cannot last and which must improve in the real sense of corporate governance rules. This is often highlighted in public enterprises. More than ever, it must be the guide. Beyond that, responsibility will have to be taken at the individual level. Indeed, one cannot be content with an analysis which I will call "academic" or by auditing the situation. As far as management bodies are concerned, so-called management, many aspects will have to be clarified. In a public company such as SNCB, it is no longer normal for CEOs to take on their responsibilities. But we will also have a role to play as parliamentarians when discussing management contracts. This is about the very heart of what defines the relationship between political power, parliament and public enterprise, since it is a question of deciding whether or not the public allocation financed by the State budget is justified. Finally, I would point out that, to date, the Walloon Region has not yet appointed its representative to the SNCB and Infrabel, which I regret.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-24-54-commissie-ic125x.u34	Madam Secretary, thank you for your comprehensive and committed reply. It must be clear that there must be transparency in relation to subsidiaries Eurostation, Eurogare and Euro Immo Star. It is good that an independent audit is carried out to investigate everything properly. However, I do not think that we should start from the principle that Eurostation and others should restrict their work to our country. Of course there is a lot of work here, but if we can use and use our fairly widely respected know-how in respect of rail and station development in a decent and transparent way abroad, we must not fail to do so. Of course, this must be transparent, without any form of cross-financing. It's basically about the serenity of the company. There is the story about Euro Immo Star and Michel Allé, which I believe will be discussed here later. In the background, however, there is the question of the chairman of the Management Board and the CEO, who apparently have difficulty in working together. I note that you directed a letter to them on 9 March, but I read in the newspapers that there were messages coming out afterwards. The serenity has not yet been regained and this is urgently needed. In concrete terms, I call on you to put the two parties concerned around the table, to ask whether they can still work together and, if not, to draw conclusions from it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-24-54-commissie-ic125x.u35	Minister, the image of this company, one of the most important in the country, has already been undermined by the application, disastrous for commuters, of the transportation plan. Such a situation cannot continue. Every week we see a new episode of this saga. The most recent was the five-star consulting contract for a pensioner. There are internal conflicts, both within the SNCB and between firms, over political appointments and major settlement of accounts between friends that take on an disproportionate role. You asked for an external audit. At SNCB, internal audits take place almost every day. I imagine that a number of observations have already been made on the basis of all these internal audits and that you have seen them. I hope that you have consulted them and that conclusions are needed. You talked about Eurostation and the project in India. We were able to read in the press, especially in De Morgen, articles on scams and possible corruption. I recall that Minister Reynders signed a memorandum of understanding between Eurostation and operators in India in 2012. I don't see it clearly in this case. Will the audit shed light on what happened when these agreements were concluded? In any case, I would ask that we be able to consider all the various points. Beyond the disastrous image, I see a great efficiency problem that ultimately weighs on commuters. As the appropriate minister, you must take your responsibilities so that the SNCB gets back in order very quickly and ceases to weaken its image, which is deplorable and which is only deteriorating. This business must return to good governance and efficiency for commuters, it must become a leitmotiv. Finally, you need to make it clear what you want about SNCB Group subsidiaries. You have never been clear about this, as has the government as a whole. We hear all kinds of comments, but now we want to know your project in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-24-54-commissie-ic125x.u36	Mr President, I know that Parliament has the last word. However, let me welcome the fact that, for once, there is unanimity. Indeed, all the clarity must be made on this dossier. I would also like to point out that things could have been clarified well before I arrived in the department on 11 October 2014.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-24-54-commissie-ic125x.u37	Is anyone else asking to speak on this? If not, we can move on to another question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-24-54-commissie-ic125x.u38	Madam Minister, the draft law on index jump was tabled in Parliament. I understand that a thorough discussion has already taken place at the first reading in the committee. This will probably be discussed later in plenary. The CD&V Group had said that this should also be introduced for rental prices. Madam Secretary, will train tickets be indexed if the central index is exceeded? Given CD&V's attitude and demand not to do this in rental contracts, I assume that the government will not do this in train tickets either, but I would ask you to be sure.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-24-54-commissie-ic125x.u39	SNCB did not increase its ticket prices in February 2015.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-24-54-commissie-ic125x.u40	It's laconic.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-24-54-commissie-ic125x.u41	Madam Secretary, thank you for your clear answer. I hope that will continue to be the case in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-24-54-commissie-ic125x.u42	Madam Secretary, Ghent is a beautiful city, with a beautiful station. Over the past few weeks, a lot of people have sought shelter in train stations. That was no different in the beautiful station Gent-Sint-Pieters. However, there are more and more complaints from travellers about the nuisance of homeless people in the entrance hall and the sideways of the station. Some of them would lie on the banks and cause considerable nuisance by using alcohol or drugs and harassing commuters, which is a step too far. That is not a good thing for the safety of the travellers and for the cosiness in the most beautiful station in Flanders. Just so we're clear, I don't mean to keep homeless people out of the station while they're looking for a warmer place to stay. Meanwhile, the city government of Ghent is considering introducing a ban on alcohol. Madam Minister, what preventive and repressive measures are already being taken to reduce the nuisance in stations, particularly in Ghent-Sint-Pieters? Are you thinking of any additional measures to prevent nuisances? After all, the current package of measures does not seem to be sufficient.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-24-54-commissie-ic125x.u43	Madam Minister, my colleague and fellow townmate has already said: Ghent has the most beautiful station in Flanders. By the way, that gets better every day thanks to the wonderful work that is being done there. However, there are more and more complaints about homeless or not homeless wanderers who drink themselves and harass travellers without help. There are also many complaints about drug use. In certain places, the smell of urine can no longer be hardened. Think of the old tram tunnel, where it stinks in every corner. It is not really pleasant, and that while the policy-makers must take great care of the comfort of the passengers in a station. That should be top priority. As a preventive measure, a number of benches have been removed. But who's the victim of that? This is once again the regular train traveller, who has to lose comfort because of the antisocial behaviour of a few. I would like to endorse Mr Yüksel's request to make the station a pleasant, open place and to keep it that way, with regard to services and comfort for the traveller. Firstly, what is the railway police's policy on public drunkenness? I believe that there are already possibilities in this area. To what extent is this used by the railway police? Secondly, do you see the possibility of identifying, for example through camera surveillance, persons who have a disturbing treaty, such as urinating or doing their joints, and not only to deal with a fine but also, if necessary, with a ban on places? The system of municipal administrative sanctions explicitly provides for the possibility to issue a place ban. That may seem interesting in the specific case. How is cooperation with Ghent city government, local police and justice working? Thirdly, how does Ghent-Sint-Pieters relate to the other Flemish and Belgian stations in relation to such a nuisance? Are there any figures on the number of such complaints? How is cooperation with local authorities in other stations to combat such nuisances? Finally, what measures have you already taken and what will you take?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-24-54-commissie-ic125x.u44	SNCB has developed a specific approach to control the phenomenon of homeless people in the stations and the possible nuisance, but from a view of corporate social responsibility and with attention to human suffering. All measures taken by SNCB are in line with the view that stations are not in themselves part of the reception network for homeless people. Only during periods of extreme cold does a certain tolerance be displayed in certain stations and under certain conditions with regard to the homeless who are present at a station. Each year, a winter plan shall be drawn up listing the measures taken with regard to persons on the ground at the stations. The main aim of these measures is to guide the homeless from the station to the reception facilities of social organizations. The Corporate Security Service of SNCB has therefore appointed a ground expert, who is the link between SNCB, social organisations and the homeless population. The redirection function shall be exercised on a permanent basis. The field expert also works in the stations Gent-Sint-Pieters and Gent-Dampoort. In addition to contacts with the target groups, he has monthly consultations with Streethoekwerk and the Ghent OCMW. Following the winter 2014-2015 a preliminary consultation took place with the Centre for General Welfare, Street Corner and the Nightcare Centre in Ghent, to explain SNCB's social strategy and to make concrete agreements with these partners. An evaluation of the winter 2014-2015 is scheduled in April. In addition, consultations took place in response to specific problematic situations, such as a Roma family staying in an underground station parking lot. Daily censuses show that the station Gent-Sint-Pieters has no greater presence of homeless people than other major Flemish stations. Furthermore, Securail, the SNCB security service, plays an important role in controlling this phenomenon. On the one hand, the agents have a prevention mission and cooperate in maintaining safety in the stations. On the other hand, they have a number of powers to act repressively when rules are violated, such as the preparation of a report. The Securail agents take the necessary actions in cooperation with the local and federal police in cases of nuisance, such as plundering and ditching. SNCB's Security Operations Center is responsible for real-time viewing of the camera images in Belgian stations. If disturbing behaviour is detected through these images, Securail or the police will be informed. SNCB is a requesting party for the application of administrative sanctions or other simplified systems in the stations. A station is a public accessible place and is part of the city. The police regulations apply here. The cooperation with the Ghent city administration is the subject of the discussions concerning the conclusion of a partnership. In addition to this operational cooperation, SNCB is now also participating in the Social Security Steering Committee on Public Transport of the city of Ghent and De Lijn. The subject of nuisance is also raised there. Since 2009, SNCB's Corporate Security Service has concluded partnerships with the local partners concerned on the safety of the stations and the station environment. In Ghent there are discussions at the moment to formalise the already existing cooperation on the ground and also to start a collaboration in the Ghent stations. Following recent incidents, a consultation was planned between SNCB's Corporate Security Services, the local police, the railway police, the city of Ghent and the social partners. The consultations will discuss possible measures, including a ban on places and/or alcohol.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-24-54-commissie-ic125x.u45	Minister, that was a very comprehensive answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-24-54-commissie-ic125x.u46	Mr President, Minister, thank you for the answer, which I remember three things from. In April 2015, an evaluation of night care will follow. You will also enter into a partnership with the local government. In this context, you will also examine whether an alcohol and a place ban are possible. Those two prohibitions are important to prevent the nuisance of homeless people. I am also pleased that you are looking for a solution for people who have real problems in relation to the CAW and other services, such as the OCMW. Madam Minister, I have one more specific question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-24-54-commissie-ic125x.u47	This is a reply and not a question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-24-54-commissie-ic125x.u48	Mr President, I assume that a gas fine is not possible at the moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-24-54-commissie-ic125x.u49	Mr. Dedecker, you may reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-24-54-commissie-ic125x.u50	Mr President, Minister, you have indicated that this is a comprehensive answer. That is of course also because the whole story needs to be addressed with the necessary nuance. Tolerance is certainly appropriate, also for homeless people, but not for antisocial behavior. We will always have to make that distinction. In this respect, it is a good initiative that you have appointed a local contact person or some kind of mediator. He or she is trying to help the people involved, which will also work for some of them. However, I also see the statements made by Mayor Termont, who suggests that it is mainly about a small hard core of people who absolutely do not want to be helped. At some point in time, we will have to go down this road and go down other roads, such as the place ban, which I have suggested and which you seem to want to take up. Such a measure does indeed seem very interesting to me. It is strange that you should reply that there are now discussions with the city with a view to concluding a partnership. I conclude from that that there was no such cooperation to date. I hope I understood your words correctly. I do not know, but it is a very strange observation that there is no cooperation with the city administration today to deal effectively with nuisance.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-24-54-commissie-ic125x.u51	Mr President, I am not a regular member of your committee. This is the first time I have asked the minister a question. Minister, there are concerns about Tamines station in Namurois. The origin of the problem lies at Châtelet station, which lacks staff for various reasons: illness, burn out, stress, demotivation. This problematic situation has spilled over to Tamines station. At the end of February this year, four deputy chiefs and four workers, unless I am mistaken, learned that they will be transferred to Châtelet to fill the shortage of staff. Since then, Tamines Train Station has met with eight fewer staff members. Without station sub-chiefs, commuters fear that they will no longer be able to ask for help on the docks and, according to some newspapers, they are afraid for their own safety. A petition was launched and a popular gathering was held at Tamines railway station on 15 March. The unions, for their part, deplored the disappearance of the reception and information service for travellers since 1 March while more than 3,000 commuters are transiting through Tamines. They denounce savings on staff and security as well as a slow death at Tamines station. SNCB assured them that this was an interim solution that is expected to end in June. But not everyone is convinced, and some expect a definitive closure of the facilities. The closure of the Auvelais railway station in June 2013 had traumatized the entire region. These concerns are legitimate, and I wanted to pass them on to you, Madam Minister, because we know that with the new transportation plan, the closure of several stations is planned, especially that of Florée (Assesse) also located in Namur province. You know the concern about local services and the smallest stations. Minister, were there no other solutions to help Châtelet but to reduce the number, and therefore the quality of service, of the Tamines station? Can you confirm that this is a temporary situation? If so, when will it end? Otherwise, is Tamines station going to disappear? Are there other stations in Namur province that need to worry? It came back to me that on the side of Andenne, some concerns were expressed as well. I know that there is a need to do the part. I look forward to hearing your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-24-54-commissie-ic125x.u52	Mr President, the SNCB confirms the transfer of the Tamines sub-chiefs to the Châtelet training station, stressing the temporary nature of this measure. The Châtelet training station is a critical facility whose 24-hour operation must be given priority and which is currently facing a particularly high wave of long-term absences. SNCB therefore does not have the human resources to deal with this problem without taking emergency measures. A station presence in Tamines continues to be provided by the staff of the ticket offices. Upon the resumption of the work of the incumbents, the situation will be normalized as and when. No other station in Namur province is, a priori, affected by similar measures. In addition, SNCB has never considered the full closure of the Tamines railway station. No dialogue with the commune has been initiated, since the displacement of the deputy chiefs from Tamines to Châtelet is a temporary measure linked to an exceptional situation. SNCB's safety policy aims to ensure maximum preventive presence at railway stations, with unguarded stopping points and on trains operating on all railway lines. Regular passages of the teams of Securail are organized in Tamines train station and on board trains running on the line 130 Charleroi-Namur. The situation at Tamines station is currently very quiet. If particular problems of insecurity were to develop, SNCB would approach the municipal authorities in order to establish close cooperation with all the partners concerned with safety issues in and around the station. In order to be able to organise optimum assistance for people with reduced mobility, SNCB requests that a reservation be made 24 hours in advance, instead of 48 hours. If a person with reduced mobility has booked and the aid is confirmed, it is taken care of by qualified staff. With regard to this last point, you should know that I am trying to catch up with our neighbours, where it is possible to reserve two hours in advance.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-24-54-commissie-ic125x.u53	Minister, I note that no closure is envisaged. I take note of that. On the other hand, you explain that at this stage there is no known problem of insecurity. If I can, however, make a suggestion, I think it would be wise to establish contact with the municipality, even without waiting for any safety concerns – which no one wishes, of course. This would make it possible to disseminate information to commuters and the local population. Unless I'm wrong, you haven't given a deadline for the transfer of staff. I understand that you cannot do this, since the causes of the problem are not yet resolved. However, when I hear about illness, burn out, etc., I fear that the situation will continue. If this situation became final, it would be a bad blow for the service that is being rendered at Tamines station.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-24-54-commissie-ic125x.u54	Madam Minister, an idea was recently launched to make train tickets more expensive in rush hour, between 6 and 9 a.m. tomorrow and between 15 and 19 p.m. If this is carried out, the student, who has no alternatives, or the commuter working, must bear the additional savings from SNCB. On the one hand, the means of operation are greatly cut, on the other hand, if that proposal is implemented, the traveller will pay the price. Two days later, the results of a comparative study of tariffs in the European Union were published on Knack's website. According to that study, our country isn't the cheapest. There are countries where there is cheaper driving, as well as countries where tickets are more expensive. Is there a plan today for the price increase of train tickets during the rush hour on the table of your government or SNCB?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-24-54-commissie-ic125x.u55	Mr Geerts, I simply confirm that the increase in prices at peak times is not on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-24-54-commissie-ic125x.u56	That's a laconic answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-24-54-commissie-ic125x.u57	Mr President, I cannot replicate such a clear answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-24-54-commissie-ic125x.u58	Mr Geerts, the next question is yours.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-24-54-commissie-ic125x.u59	Mr President, I would like to put my question to the President-in-Office. 2932 were converted into a written question because the question was answered in ample detail during the previous debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-24-54-commissie-ic125x.u60	Another question about Gent-Sint-Pieters, Mr Yüksel?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-24-54-commissie-ic125x.u61	Indeed, Mr President, and you will hear a lot of talk in this committee about Ghent-Sint-Pieters, because it is one of the largest stations in our country. Since 2010, there has been a lot of work on the renewal of that station in Ghent. The work on the tracks 11 and 12 now seems almost complete. Every day I take the train on track 11 and arrive in Ghent on track 12. The underground parkings and the kiss & ride zone are finished. The full completion of the works is foreseen by 2021. Madam Minister, the situation of Eurostation has just been discussed. Yesterday I read in a quality newspaper that the works are endlessly long and that the costs are rising. The works were budgeted at half a billion euros and will not be completed until 2022. Ghent-Sint-Pieters, the largest station in terms of number of passengers, is coming up quite late, I read in the newspaper. Madam Secretary, that is why I have the following questions. Are the works at Gent-Sint-Pieters station on schedule? When will the end of these works be planned, taking into account any delays? Also important, is the budget allocated sufficient or is additional costs expected?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-24-54-commissie-ic125x.u62	Mr President, the station is being implemented in two stages. The first phase, from track 12 to track 8, started in November 2010. The end of that phase was initially scheduled for June 2016, but was postponed to January 2018 for operational reasons. The second phase, the construction of track 7 to track 1, the installation of the ground floor, the bicycle sheds and the construction of the tram station, is planned from September 2017 to August 2024, end date of construction of the station. The phasering of phase 2 was adapted on the basis of the experience in phase 1. At the same time, maximum use is made of the overlap of the construction phases and the acceleration of the construction. The planned total budget for the station environment of Gent-Sint-Pieters amounts to 496 million euros. The station's sub-project is an integral part of this and is included in the SNCB proposals for consultation with the Minister on the format of the 2016-2030 multiannual plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-24-54-commissie-ic125x.u63	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. The station Gent-Sint-Pieters is an important station for East Flanders, but also for West Flanders, for which it is an important stopover. Many here can testify to that. It is therefore important that these works be completed as quickly as possible so that the passengers there can take the train comfortably. We must, of course, ensure that the budgets are not derailed. I'm counting on you to keep an eye on that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-24-54-commissie-ic125x.u64	Madam Minister, the government has an exemplary role, especially in relation to the employment of people with disabilities. In the federal government agreement there is a passage on this, which the N-VA considers to be very positive. The passage is on page 149 of the federal government agreement and reads as follows: "The government will pursue a positive policy towards people with disabilities. This means that it will ensure the accessibility of buildings, adapt jobs to the needs of disabled people, focus attention on people with disabilities in the reception of customers, services and the whole organisation. In its staff policy, it will respect the quota of 3%. In the past, you have already received a number of questions about the accessibility of stations and platforms for disabled people. This question concerns the number of people with disabilities employed by SNCB. How many people from the current workforce have a disability? What is the policy of the SNCB Group with regard to employing people with disabilities? Has SNCB already set out objectives in this respect?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-24-54-commissie-ic125x.u65	At present, there are 1 425 employees in the Belgian Railways or 4.05 % of the overall workforce who have been declared unfit for their normal duties for medical reasons and are thus employed in another job. SNCB is making a major effort to reorient and, if necessary, retrain staff who face a disability for another function. Recently, a special effort was made in this context to search, in collaboration with the company doctors, for functions in which employees could be re-employed internally. It is SNCB's objective to secure compliance with the government target of 3% and to keep staff with a disability for a previous job as permanently as possible, so that the current level of 4% can be maintained.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-24-54-commissie-ic125x.u66	I understand that 4.05 percent of staff have now been found medically unfit for the position for which they were recruited and that they are reoriented as far as possible to another position. That's a good thing. If a candidate with a disability is registered in the recruitment of new staff, I hope that person has the same chance as a candidate without limitation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-24-54-commissie-ic125x.u67	Mr President, Madam Minister, in recent weeks the Eupen station has been the front page of the German-speaking press. Indeed, SNCB would have the intention of reducing the services of the station, which is, however, a hub for European travellers from Germany. However, it had been promised to the eupenese municipal authorities that the services in the railway station would be improved, the said authorities having committed themselves, for their part, to improving the surroundings of the railway station by opening shops and improving the immediate surroundings. The local press reports a reduction in the opening hours of the counters with the placement of a ticket distributor, starting on 1 April, which would lead to a decrease in the human presence and the services offered at the station concerned. Minister, what means are you going to put in place to honour SNCB's promise to the municipal authorities? What will be the opening hours of the windows? How many staff will provide a presence at this station in order to allow for the reception of customers, the dynamism of the city and in particular of the station, as well as the safety and the feeling of well-being of travellers?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-24-54-commissie-ic125x.u68	Mr President, dear colleague, contrary to what has been announced in the press, the opening hours of the ticket office of the Eupen station will not be changed on 1 April 2015: from 05:45 to 20:15 on weekdays and from 06:00 to 20:30 on weekends and holidays. The controller placed in the station has been operational since October 2013. As is already the case today, the presence of SNCB in the station will be ensured by an agent.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-24-54-commissie-ic125x.u69	Madam Minister, I can only welcome the fact that the information given by the press to the population of Eupen is not confirmed. That said, it must be recognized that an agent is little. Indeed, I assume that this agent is not present during all the opening hours of the station, on weekdays and weekends.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-24-54-commissie-ic125x.u70	We resume our activities at the same rate.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-24-54-commissie-ic125x.u71	Madam Minister, the discussion on the extra cost of seven euros for buying a ticket on the train has already been discussed on several occasions. SNCB has always said that there are different alternatives, i.e. counters, vending machines, apps or online applications. I insist that, through the reform of the system, black riders are rewarded. People who are bona fide are punished. The aggression towards the train escorts will also increase. Before 1 January, subscribers were allowed to forget their subscription at home or at work twice a year. No additional charges were charged; they simply had to show their subscription to the counter within two weeks. There is now a new procedure and a fine of eight euros is imposed when you forget the subscription if you do not have enough money to pay the ticket and the fine. The administrative cost would therefore be eight euros. If you have enough money, you pay the full ticket price plus seven euros. Afterwards, this amount can be recovered in full at a station of your choice, without administrative costs, although additional operations are actually required. The traveller has been able to buy a ticket online for several years. That ticket can be registered on the identity card. Now it turns out that the conductor cannot check whether a ticket was actually purchased that day. When he leaves in the morning, his system will not be updated afterwards. Let me illustrate this by means of the following concrete example. A person who buys a ticket in the afternoon is punished, because a conductor who left in the morning cannot see that the purchase of a ticket was registered. The e-mail received to confirm the registration appears not to be sufficient evidence. I can give a number of additional examples of people who feel so unfairly treated. It even happens that people who had bought a subscription had to pay it a second time because the payment was not registered by the supervisor. Amounts of 79 euro fine and more published in readers' letters. Can you confirm the method for the forgotten subscriptions from 1 January 2015? Why is there a different system of recovery when you can pay the fine on the spot or when you pay it afterwards at the counter? Isn't that discriminatory treatment? Is it true that the ticket control boxes of the train guides cannot register tickets purchased online after starting a service? If so, what solution can be given?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-24-54-commissie-ic125x.u72	Mr President, Minister, I agree with the question put by Mr Geerts, who has outlined the problem in detail. It is hallucinating that tickets purchased online are apparently not registered on the train guides' hand computers. People are encouraged to buy online, which is a good thing for simplifying the way in which they work, but then, of course, train drivers also need real-time information. I understand that the train escorts would have new handheld computers from April. Hopefully it'll be better. My questions concern more specifically the situation where ticket machines are inoperative, which is unfortunately a common problem. If the train guide does not know that the ticket machine is inoperative, he must charge the surcharge, an on-board fare of seven euros. If the traveller can prove that the vending machine did not work effectively, he can present himself to get the extra amount back. Does SNCB always pay back the on-board fare in the event that passengers cannot buy tickets, because the vending machine may be temporarily defective? If so, why is this not mentioned on the website? If not, why are the rules not mentioned on the website? The communication on the SNCB website could be clearer. How can SNCB check whether a vending machine was temporarily defective? It happens sometimes that a vending machine will work again by noon. Why is that? That's what we're guessing. In how many cases has SNCB already made a refund since the introduction of the on-board fare because a vending machine was found to be temporarily defective? In how many cases did the customer service get a complaint, but no reimbursement was made? How does SNCB evaluate the procedure for obtaining a refund of the on-board fare in the case of a temporarily defective vending machine? Does SNCB notice an increase in the number of cases of aggression? Recently, there was a fairly uplifting case of aggression in the south of the country, which would have had to do with the airline fare. Does SNCB notice any increase in this since the introduction of the on-board tariff? In the end, the new on-board tariff system aimed at reducing the number of cases of aggression. However, I do not have the impression that the number of discussions on the drain is falling; I also hear that from train drivers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-24-54-commissie-ic125x.u73	Mr President, the rules governing the regularisation of irregular travellers were indeed amended on 1 February 2015, together with the introduction of the on-board tariff. Subscribers who cannot submit a valid subscription during a check on board the train can no longer be regularized twice a year free of charge. From now on, they will be able to buy a ticket on board and will be reimbursed in full if they can show their subscription at the counter within 14 calendar days, which was valid on the date of the adoption. If they do not pay the ticket at on-board rates, the train escorts shall establish an irregularity. In that case, if they sign up at the counter with their fixing and subscription, which was valid on the day in question, they will only pay the amount of the administration costs. The old rule was deleted because year after year more records of forgotten subscriptions were drawn up. More than 20% of the findings made by train escorts in 2014 related to forgotten subscriptions, which resulted in considerable administrative costs for SNCB. SNCB wanted to tackle this phenomenon, but at the same time remained commercial with its loyal customers and therefore opted for this new system. If a loyal customer regularises immediately during the check, he is entitled to a commercial gesture by refunding the ticket. For that, he has to go systematically to the window. If, on the other hand, he does not regularize immediately, a determination must be made. The processing of these findings entails a lot of costs, which more than justifies the payment of the administrative costs of eight euros. Currently, the data of these purchases are downloaded into the local database of the IBIS device by synchronization at the start of the service. If an ID ticket is checked, this database will first be used to verify the data. If the purchase has taken place after synchronization, GPRS will automatically connect to the database. If there is no mobile internet available, the check will not be possible and the traveller with a ticket will normally be made at the normal rate. These sales data will be updated in real time with the new ITRIS sales units of the train escorts. The roll-out is planned from May 2015. Mr Van den Berg, SNCB's Customer Service service always pays back the on-board fare when the traveller could not buy a ticket because the vending machine was temporarily defective. SNCB uses monitoring tools to determine whether a vending machine is defective. The evaluation of the reimbursement procedure in case of temporarily defective vending machines is ongoing. It's too early to draw a conclusion. I can also tell you that SNCB has a frequent asked questions section on its website. The introduction of the on-board fare is closely monitored. SNCB has not so far seen an increase in the number of cases of aggression. SNCB is cautiously positive, as the number of cases of aggression in 2015 shows a decreasing trend compared to the same period last year.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-24-54-commissie-ic125x.u74	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer, although I cannot accept it. After all, this is anything but customer-friendly. Those who take a train themselves often find that there is no connection to make a phone call, let alone for data traffic. I therefore expect this to be an additional problem. Moreover, it is absolutely not customer-friendly that there remains a difference in treatment with the seven and eight euros. It seems to me that things are becoming more complex with the new procedure rather than simplified. So this is an example of how it should not be done at all.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-24-54-commissie-ic125x.u75	Madam Minister, thank you, of course, for your reply. I understand that it is early to evaluate the system, although it is already being evaluated that there would seem to be a reduction in the number of cases of aggression. In the coming months, it will have to be seen whether this evolution is continuing. I would like to make one very specific point. The procedure relating to the inoperative operation of temporary vending machines is really not mentioned on the website, even in the frequently asked questions. So that might be another point of reference. Finally, a more general consideration which has already been raised in other questions. The customer-friendliness still leaves something to be desired.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-24-54-commissie-ic125x.u76	Madam Secretary, many questions have already been asked about drones. You know that they are an important evolution. People often talk about disruptive technologies, such as Uber and Airbnb, but drones also change the way we look at the world. The European Commission even calls them a new era in aviation. Recently, I read in the newspaper that the US Aviation Authority has granted Amazon a pilot licence to deliver drone packages. We are still waiting for legislation in this area. Madam Secretary, you have already stated that you want to prepare such legislation. I'm very happy about that. Your predecessor has spent three years; I'm sorry to put it this way. You have promised to put an end to this bullshit, and I am very pleased with that. The legislation on drones deals with three major issues. A first issue is the height. How high can drones fly according to the relaxed regulations? In the original royal decree of your predecessor, whose name I will not mention, there was 200 feet, which is far too low compared to the United Kingdom and France. The draft European directive proposed about a week ago in Riga refers to 500 feet. The European Aviation Safety Agency (EASA) also believes that an authorisation of up to 500 feet is safe. Madam Minister, the first question is therefore what level you want to allow in the draft royal decree that is currently being worked on? A second issue is whether specialised sectors such as agriculture, police and cartography, beyond line or sight will be allowed to fly. This means that the pilot operating the device should not see it at all times. For certain agricultural applications one cannot expect a farmer carrying out an inspection of his crops to see where the drone hangs at all times. It seems to me that in specific cases, well specified by a ministerial decision, we should be able to allow beyond line of sight to be flown. The question is whether you intend to allow this? My third question concerns the areas. A few maps of the authorized overflight areas are published in the press. In De Tijd, restrictions were mentioned up to a third of the national territory. It was also reported that West Flanders was completely excluded from flying over drones. It appears that overflight of the only city of Ghent would be permitted. There is therefore no way to fly over cities like Antwerp, Liège, Bruges, Ostend or Brussels without mentioning Courtrai! I have been informed that, as one of the parties involved, the Defence Minister's Head of Office, Colonel Van De Voorde, made it clear last week that Defence has evolved and has taken a modern attitude towards drones. In other words, drones would also be allowed in military controlled zones, including in West Flanders, which is fully military controlled. Madam Secretary, are you of that opinion? Finally, we know that Belgocontrol controls the airspace. Are you planning measures around airports, even if restricted, to allow drones to fly? Can measures be taken to allow this to happen in the vicinity of airports, such as Antwerp? When you say that there should be no flying around Deurne, that means that no drone should take off in Antwerp. For the rest, I hope that a royal decree will be issued as soon as possible, because then the Regions will also have to communicate their opinions, as well as the Council of State and Europe. After the filing of the draft royal decree, it will take another eight months! Minister, can you give us some inside information about the timing and content of this royal order?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-24-54-commissie-ic125x.u77	Madam Minister, my question is in line with the third question put by the previous speaker. We read in the newspapers of 20 March that the province of West Flanders would become a no-fly zone for drones, even though in Koksijde the only training school for drone users is located. The possibilities offered by the drones are endless. Agriculture, police, firefighters and especially companies are very interested in using drones in the future. The West Flemish airspace would be too much used by Defense and drones would seriously disrupt air traffic, it is said. However, Koksijde's air base, which is being used less and less, could offer opportunities as an ideal base of operations. Voka West Flanders has already expressed its concern in this regard. I would therefore like to ask you the following questions. Is there going to be a legal framework that will allow us to fly drones? Will a royal decree be issued on this matter before the summer? Is there a danger that West Flanders will effectively become a no-fly zone? I'd like a little more explanation on this. Has there been any consultation with the Defense Department and what results? If not, will the meeting be held soon?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-24-54-commissie-ic125x.u78	Mr President, my collaborators have examined the draft Royal Decree with a view to making adjustments on a number of points, without giving rise to a complete rewrite of the text. At a time when all the parties concerned have been heard carefully, the KB is currently being finalised. As soon as the text is ready, we will be able to submit it to the Regions, the Council of State and the European Commission in the context of the information procedure. It is my responsibility to ensure the safety of the airspace in which the drones will move. In this respect, the separation with the manned aircraft must be at the heart of our concerns. Moreover, aviation regulation is strict on the organisation of air traffic within a controlled airspace. According to international law, drones are regarded as aircraft and are subject to the same rules as the aircraft. Derogations, to be obtained from DGLV, will allow drones to perform certain tasks in the controlled airspace. Following an analysis and an objectification of access to the areas controlled by DGLV, Belgocontrol and Defence, a working group of several departments will be set up to consider granting drone access to controlled areas. Finally, let me reassure the speakers: I want to ensure that this promising economic sector can grow. Mr Van Quickenborne, I would also add that while my predecessors have waited three years, I am not responsible for it. When I took up my mandate, I took my responsibilities directly by bringing together all the actors on the ground. I went to Mol on Friday again, where I met one of the actors, BeAUS, not to mention them, with whom I had a good fight. I'm starting to get tired of it and I'm being blamed that nothing's been done for three years! I took on my responsibilities. I've been working. My predecessor's text was about 200 feet and everyone agreed to vote on that text with their hands attached, while 200 feet was the limit. I am one of the only ministers who really defends the sector that uses drones because, for the moment, it acts without a legal framework and, in the event of an accident, we do not know who will be responsible. We're making good progress. In the near future, you will have the result of all the consultations that have taken place and you will have the proposal for a text that will be on the table. There is also an agreement with Defence that will be presented to you as part of the proposed Order.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-24-54-commissie-ic125x.u79	Minister, thank you for your very sincere, direct and comprehensive response. I said it was your predecessor who was slow to do it, not you. I'm glad to have you as a minister. I hope that a solution can be found. At the same time, we must also compare with the regulations existing in other countries, particularly in France, which is not a hyper dangerous or hyper-capitalist country. We could draw inspiration from it. But I'm sure you're going to do this right. Thank you for your efforts.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-24-54-commissie-ic125x.u80	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. I am partly in agreement with the previous speaker. We are pleased that the framework is coming and we are sure that you are doing very hard to do so. Safety must never be a question of doubt; I think everyone agrees with that. I'm glad to hear you're considering derogations for certain assignments and or certain zones. I very much welcome the setting up of the working group. Together with you, I look forward to a final legal framework for the drones.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-24-54-commissie-ic125x.u81	Madam Minister, on 4 March 2015, not so long ago, a press release was distributed by Brussels Airport stating that, as happens regularly, maintenance work would take place on runways 25L and 07R. This would take place between 27 May 2015 and 7 September 2015. These are three phases, in which the asphalt layers would be renewed and paved lines and drainage would be applied, in order to ensure safe runways. During this work, which will only take place overnight in a first phase day and night and in a second phase between 15 August 2015 and 7 September 2015, jobs 25L and 07R will not be available. The press release also states that Belgocontrol will do everything in its power to limit the impact of the works on normal preferential job use. Any deviation will be weighed on the basis of different parameters, with absolute priority being given to safety. Of course, we agree with the safety criterion. However, it is also stated that the flight routes will not change during the operation and that only the frequency of the routes will change. This means that there will be more frequent flights on the remaining routes. This also means that runway 25R will be used for take-off and landing. Between 3 August 2015 and 7 September 2015, this will be the case every night and by turning to the right everything will be distracted over the Noordrand. You have received a letter from the mayors of Grimbergen, Machelen, Meise, Vilvoorde and Wemmel. They've come to see you before. However, the problem was not raised at the time. In particular, it is feared that concentration will be high over the region, which will also be the case, because the same jobs are being used. This concentration will be particularly high during works at the intersection of runways 25L and 07R with runway 01/19 during the second phase. Therefore, there is of course a demand for a better distribution, not only during that period but in the period until 7 September 2015, in which all night flights will be concentrated across runway 25R towards Noordrand. Madam Minister, can you not ensure a better spread by not only taking the right turn but also the left bend, which uses the channel route? Do you confirm that high concentration? I think you will have to answer it in the affirmative, as there are no other jobs. At the same time, there is the question of why not provide alternative flight routes, as they were used in 2013 during similar works, in order to spread the nuisance. I don't know if you've already answered the letter of the mayors of the Northrand? If you have done so, I would be pleased to hear what you have said.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-24-54-commissie-ic125x.u82	Mrs Becq, first of all I would like to reiterate once again that the work is primarily necessary for the safety of both residents and travellers. I can assure you that every effort will be made to reduce the impact on local residents and on airport activities, to mitigate as much as possible the impact of the works on the current use of preferred jobs and to minimise delays for airlines and passengers. There can therefore be no mention of a concentration in one or the other zone, since the works will affect all overflying zones at one time or another. The flight routes will not be changed in order to avoid additional complexity. I asked the ombudsdienst for Brussels Airport National to organise a consultation forum with the mayors, Belgocontrol and BIAC shortly after the Easter holiday. This forum hasn't come together since 2013. The intention is to communicate the information in all transparency.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-24-54-commissie-ic125x.u83	Madam Minister, you say that there will be no concentration, but if those jobs are not used, there will of course be concentration, because only the turn to the right would be flown. Unless I have misunderstood you and you are effectively saying that there will be a spread and that the turn to the left will still be taken? I see you nodding yes, you say that there will be more effective work on a spread and then I have misunderstood you, and I apologise for that. There is therefore an effective search for more spread, as opposed to the press release. After the Easter holiday you will consult. I am grateful to you for that, and I hope that this can lead to a constructive approach.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-24-54-commissie-ic125x.u84	Mr President, Minister, my question concerns the station parking in Turnhout. Parking was a problem because anywhere in the area either a blue zone or paying parking applies. A few weeks ago the paying parking was introduced and that is a good measure. However, this introduction has taken place with a lot of punches and horns. For example, incorrect information was disseminated and it was not clear whether tickets or subscriptions could be purchased at the counters. The date of introduction was also postponed several times. Finally, it was also found that the price had changed from EUR 200 to EUR 260. One problem is still not gone. If you have an annual subscription, you must also purchase an annual subscription for the car park. Those who only purchase their train ticket in February will have to pay a monthly parking fee and will cost more at the end of the year. Perhaps a solution can be found in a transitional phase. Madam Secretary, how come this start-up has gone so hard? Why is the price still adjusted in the last instance? Can the holders of an annual train ticket possibly find a solution so that they can compare the duration of their current season ticket with the duration of their parking season ticket?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-24-54-commissie-ic125x.u85	Mr President, Minister, the situation has been outlined. What is particularly striking in that dossier is the increase, without consultation, from EUR 200 to EUR 260. Madam Minister, how exactly have the negotiations on this tariff arrangement been conducted? Who was there? Specifically, on what exact date was it decided to increase from EUR 200 to EUR 260? Who was involved? As far as I understand, the city council wasn't involved. On what exact date was that decision communicated to the municipal administration itself? How will SNCB provide communication with passengers, so that travellers know exactly where they stand and how much they have to pay? This communication went a long way, because even the staff at the counters could not help the travellers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-24-54-commissie-ic125x.u86	Mr President, cooperation has been established between the city of Turnhout, SNCB and B-Parking, which is the branch of SNCB responsible for managing station parkings. At the start of the sale of parking products and the exchange of information by the media, there were still childhood diseases. For example, there was a technical problem with SNCB's sales system which delayed the start-up of the sale of parking products. However, the info at the counter has always been correct and up-to-date. SNCB only decides on the rates applied to station parkings. During the negotiations between the city of Turnhout, SNCB and B-Parking, an agreement was reached that the parking rates of Turnhout would remain very low. No decision was taken to increase the rates. The final rates were submitted to the city of Turnhout in February 2015. The only official communication is the infoflyer with all the information about the parking, which is available at the window since 16 March 2015. You also ask if a solution will be developed for holders of an annual train ticket so that they can also purchase a parking ticket for the remaining duration of their train ticket. SNCB informs me that this is not possible in accounting terms. Turnhout is no exception in this respect at other points of sale. If a new car park is opened, customers will have to adjust their parking season ticket with an ongoing train ticket validation. Moreover, this can also be done with quarterly subscriptions of which the customer has no financial disadvantage.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-24-54-commissie-ic125x.u87	Madam Minister, I repeat that the solution to the parking problem is a good thing. Normally, the financial service of SNCB should be able to provide accounting for the purchase of a train ticket with the purchase of a parking ticket. In a transitional phase, when a new project is launched, something like this should be possible. In the meantime, quarterly subscriptions will have to be used.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-24-54-commissie-ic125x.u88	Madam Secretary, I think it's a scratch. You say that there has been consultation between B-Parking, the SNCB and the city administration. In addition, however, you report that the only official channel of decision is the infoflyer which left on 16 February 2014. I wonder why then there is still prior consultation? As far as pricing is concerned, I find it suspicious that you are only talking about a price, while the municipal administration clearly refers to the initially agreed EUR 200, which has then been raised unilaterally to EUR 260. I believe that communication can be improved in the future. It can be clearly stated that SNCB determines this and that there is therefore no negotiation possible. Those people and parties will no longer have to make an effort to plan a consultation. Otherwise it will have to be done in consultation. If this price is to be adjusted, it will not be a problem in itself, but it will be possible to set up a new consultation with B-Parking and, above all, with the municipal administration, which will eventually have to provide the information to the citizens.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-24-54-commissie-ic125x.u89	Question No 3084 by Mr Laurent Devin, questions No 3085 by Mr Daniel Senesael and No 3143 by Mr Marco Van Hees, as well as other questions by Mr Marco Van Hees, No 3096, No 3097 and No 3099, are postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-24-54-commissie-ic125x.u90	Mr President, Madam Minister, on January 28, I had already come to ask you a question about the overflight of the Walloon Brabant. At that time, you told me that you were looking at the various solutions proposed by the ASBL "Piste 01 that's enough!", association that you've met many times. I would like to come back to you to raise your awareness of the expectations of the citizens of the four most affected municipalities, namely Lasne, La Hulpe, Braine-l'Alleud and Waterloo. In particular, they request that Runway 01 be used only when weather conditions impose it objectively. Many residents felt that wind standards were not being properly applied and that the use of Runway 01 should be reduced. Minister, have you found any instances of non-compliance with the wind standards applied with respect to Runway 01? What controls are conducted to ensure that wind standards are met? The president of the ASBL and the residents believe that weather expectations involve unwarranted runway changes. If so, are there no other alternatives? For example, by measuring the wind in real time. Finally, a meeting was scheduled during the week of March 16 with the authorities of the cities of Lasne and Waterloo. Can you give me a debriefing?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-24-54-commissie-ic125x.u91	Mr Crusnière, we have not seen any cases of non-compliance at this time. I'm still waiting for Belgocontrol's explanations for last weekend. However, in recent years, we have found that the average use of Runway 01 was above 10%. I will be attentive at all times to respect the preferential system of leads, as I said during my meeting with the associations. Belgocontrol is controlled and certified by the Belgian supervisory authority for air navigation services. Apart from this ongoing supervision, the selection process for runways in use at Brussels-National airport is audited annually by Eurocontrol. Wind data shall be transmitted in real time and in full transparency to the mediation service of the Brussels-National airport. I'm not aware of the meeting you mentioned. I have already had the opportunity to meet with all the associations and I know their expectations on this complex issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-24-54-commissie-ic125x.u92	Mr President, I thank the Minister for her answers. Again, I understand that steps are being taken, that you do not have all the data, but you were committed to analyzing the various avenues proposed to find solutions in this area. Therefore, I will certainly come back to you with other questions, because we owe that to the citizens of Walloon Brabant who are often bothered by all these nuisances.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-24-54-commissie-ic125x.u93	Mr President, Madam Minister, the price of a one-way train ticket from Tournai to Lille today costs €7.60. This price, compared to other journeys of the same distance, is excessive. Bruges-Ostende, Antwerp-Malines and Courtrai-Roulers, which have the same number of kilometres as Tournai-Lille, cost €4.10, €3.90 and €3.80 respectively. I would like to point out that the journey by train from Tournai to Lille is a journey to be put forward, particularly in the context of the Eurométropole. How can we properly defend a major territorial intelligence project when train traffic within it is not properly thought out? It would indeed be appropriate to review the cost of the train journey on the Tournai-Lille line in order to encourage travel within the Eurométropole. This is a major challenge for the development of tourism and economics in this area of the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-24-54-commissie-ic125x.u94	Mr President, a distinction is made here between, on the one hand, a Belgian national tariff, in line with the provisions of the management contract, and, on the other hand, an international tariff based on the NRT tariff, which concerns pricing in a liberalised market context, without State intervention, hence the difference. However, mention should be made of the specific agreement between SNCB and SNCF Nord-Pas-de-Calais, which covers both subscriptions and banknotes on the Belgian border territory. A ticket can thus be purchased locally in the region of Courtrai, Mouscron and Tournai to Lille at a price of 8 euros. This ticket allows unlimited round-trip travel throughout a day between these stations. This agreement is part of the mission to stimulate local cross-border traffic, as provided for in the SNCB management contract.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-24-54-commissie-ic125x.u95	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. I hear what you're saying. I have only one regret, namely that the creation of the Eurométropole was considered an experience, whether at home or in other parts of Europe. My criticism is not addressed to you personally, nor even to Belgium, but it seems to me that one could be a little more creative to allow the different populations to concretise the contacts between them.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-24-54-commissie-ic125x.u96	Madam Minister, a few weekends ago there was a case of aggression against four train escorts at Mouskroen station. This led to a spontaneous strike on Monday 16 March. However, it is difficult to speak of a spontaneous strike here, as the cause of the aggression is two days before the strike took place. We can therefore rest assured that this is an organized wild strike. I fully understand the indignation on the part of the train crew because of the aggression. Such a thing cannot be tolerated, that is absolutely unacceptable. Earlier I asked some questions about aggression against the train crew, just as my party mate Mrs Renate Hufkens did about Securail. However, acts of aggression must not under any circumstances be an excuse to violate the protocol agreement against wild strikes concluded between the social partners and SNCB. In my view, a wild strike doesn't solve any problems. On the contrary, the cancelled trains and delays cause even more frustration and more incomprehension among passengers, which can once again lead to aggression, which is, of course, not justified under any circumstances. In the Netherlands a different kind of action was taken in a case of aggression against train crews: there was a honking action. This means that for a minute in all stations was honked as a protest against two cases of aggression. Meanwhile, the trains continued to run, the train crew made a clear statement with it and the horn action gave them a lot of support. Madam Secretary, how many trains were cancelled following the wild strike on 16 March? What sanction will the wild strikers get? What is the state of play regarding the anchoring of the protocol agreement against wild strikes? That's in the coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-24-54-commissie-ic125x.u97	The number of completely abolished trains is 262. The number of partially abolished trains is 54. With regard to possible disciplinary sanctions, SNCB informs me that no decision has yet been taken on this matter. For the rest, I refer to my answer to oral question No. 2971.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-24-54-commissie-ic125x.u98	Madam Minister, thank you for your short and concise but clear answer. A number of trains were cancelled that day. So we call for the protocol agreement to prevent wild strikes to be anchored as soon as possible, either through a management agreement or through a legal initiative.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-24-54-commissie-ic125x.u99	Mr President, Madam Minister, it is my responsibility that some retired station undermasters would not be replaced. In small stations like Eupen, there would then be only employees at the sales counter. According to my information, the deputy heads are very well trained and can also perform sales tasks. In addition, they are also able to solve technical problems related to the signalling or mechanism of wagons. The sub-chiefs also deal with persons with reduced mobility and ensure the safety of the wharf. If these people were replaced by mere sellers, this could lead to serious consequences for the stations in question. The Eupen station, for example, which is the terminal of an important train line, is quite often faced with changes in driving stations. If a problem were to arise when a change occurred, no one would be there to resolve it because sellers do not have technical training. Minister, do you confirm that the station's sub-chiefs are going to disappear? If so, how can the tasks I have just listed be accomplished?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-24-54-commissie-ic125x.u100	Mrs Jadin, there is no question of abolishing the function of station deputy chief, but the SNCB, concerned with the proper use of the public funds allocated to it, must find the best balance in the rational use of its staff. This can therefore lead to organizational adaptation. It is rare for technical problems to arise when driving shifts are changed, and the organization of railway operations does not give the station deputy head any role in such incidents.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-24-54-commissie-ic125x.u101	Mr President, I thank the minister for her answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-24-54-commissie-ic125x.u102	Mr President, Madam Minister, as we all know, in recent years, the work of the ER has been lagging behind. Today, the final date for the RER rail network is announced in 2025. However, it would appear that partial implementation of this network has become possible. Accordingly, following the consultation committee held on the subject recently, I would like to ask you about the possibilities for the integration of railway installations in Brussels territory such as tracks and services. Can you confirm to us at this stage the rapid measures that could be implemented for Brussels in the context of the ER? There are many choices on the negotiating table between SNCB, the Regions and the federal state. This is a case that I have been following in the Brussels Parliament in recent years. I was pleased to learn some recent information, indicating the possible effective integration of a rail network as early as 2015. Is this information proven? What financial means will be or could be made available to do so? What is the preferred route? Has a timetable already been established? How many trains, with what capacity and at what frequencies, could they operate on this urban and suburban network, close to Brussels territory? Are there any progress currently being made on the investments to be undertaken at the North-Midi junction? In the context of these existing infrastructure integrations, does it seem to you useful or necessary to prioritise the integration of the STlB on certain Brussels intermodal points in the short term and in particular in the context of the upcoming investments of the 2017 transport plan?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-24-54-commissie-ic125x.u103	Mr President, Madam Minister, following Mr Pivin's question, I would also like to know more about this integration of the regional express network, which will improve the quality of life of both commuters and Brusselsers. It is an intermodal mobility solution in a radius of 30 kilometres around Brussels, which combines train, tram, metro, bus and basic network. To consolidate this integration, a task force will be set up, bringing together the federated entities and the federal government to discuss the modalities to be developed. Minister, I would like information on this task force. What will his missions and skills be? What are the actors of the different levels of power? Has a timetable been established for this?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-24-54-commissie-ic125x.u104	Mr President, following yesterday's press conference with SNCB, I would first like to point out that, in order to designate the RER, we must now get used to talking about the suburban offer with the S trains. Indeed, a truncated image of the RER was formed in the minds of people, who believe that it will be similar to the Parisian mode of transport. S trains will enter service at the end of the year and will benefit from a marketing campaign. By the end of 2017 at the latest, SNCB will increase the suburban rail supply around Brussels. This improvement will be reflected in greater amplitude at peak hours and a stronger offer during weekends. By definition, the minimum frequency of the suburban offer is two trains per hour in off-peak hours and four trains per hour in peak hours on all lines converging towards Brussels. The new Desiro motors are the rolling stock typically intended for suburban use. The maximum composition of such a train consists of three Desiro motors and can carry eight hundred passengers. SNCB considers that the financial result of the strengthening of the suburban supply, excluding the costs of the infrastructure fee, is balanced. As for investments related to the North-Midi junction, the SPF is currently working on a synthesis of the various studies produced. Furthermore, Infrabel and SNCB will develop a joint analysis of possible solutions from a technical point of view. It is therefore not yet possible to decide on the guidelines which might emerge from it. SNCB and STIB want to make their collaboration closer through more frequent consultation. The topics covered will be improving the harmonisation of schedules, a more ambitious roadmap in terms of ticketing integration and alignment of reciprocal investment policies. At the last Consultation Committee, it was decided to hold a meeting with regional governments. In particular, it aims to present this dossier and its future developments, which call for coordination between the various public transport companies in our country. In addition, delays in the issuance of permits by the Regions will also be discussed, given their negative impact on the timing of the development of the project. This next meeting will take place on 26 March, the day after tomorrow.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-24-54-commissie-ic125x.u105	Minister, you have fully answered my question. However, in terms of semantics, communication must be accelerated. In fact, the press was still calling yesterday "The Brussels rail will become RER". I take note of the changes in names today, but everyone must also be able to be informed about them.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-24-54-commissie-ic125x.u106	Madam Minister, the Concertation Committee is therefore the task force, or I misunderstood.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-24-54-commissie-ic125x.u107	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-24-54-commissie-ic125x.u108	Today, therefore, this task force is composed of representatives of the Regions and the federal government.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-24-54-commissie-ic125x.u109	Yes. The first meeting will take place on 26 March.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-24-54-commissie-ic125x.u110	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this is a question of the task force and not of the Conciliation Committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-24-54-commissie-ic125x.u111	That's the distinction I wanted to understand.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-24-54-commissie-ic125x.u112	In an attempt to resolve a problem of unfair or unfair competition between professional carriers and farmers or agricultural contractors, your predecessor had made a change to the technical inspection regulations by creating an agricultural plate. These initiatives, taken in consultation with the then Minister of Finance, were intended to put an end to the competitive advantage generated by the use of agricultural tractors for the transport of goods. In spite of all this, the transporters have very recently still denounced the situation of the construction site of the National Road 5, where it is tractors equipped with agricultural plates, who deal with the transport of the excavation land and the rubble of the construction site in question. The UPTR, which represents the transporters, even goes so far as to speak of "fiasco of the agricultural plate" since it would be misused. Agricultural tractors are not intended to serve as transport vehicles and may affix these agricultural plates in order to benefit from a series of derogations from which road hauliers do not benefit. These are the reduced traffic tax, the reduced or no Eurovignette, the installation of a tachograph, the technical inspection and, of course, the use of red diesel. According to the Walloon Federation of Agriculture, road hauliers would have or buy agricultural tractors. Hence my questions, Madam Minister. How many agricultural tractors are registered at IVD? Can you give me that number for the last ten years? Who delivers the agricultural plates and on what basis? Is it possible to be a professional road carrier and to have at the same time an agricultural plate? With regard to the so-called'mixed activities' that a farmer or an agricultural contractor can carry out, does the SPF Mobility issue third-party transport licences to these economic actors from the agricultural world? If so, how many farmers or agricultural contractors do they have a third-party transport licence? If so, how many agricultural tractors are therefore covered by a third-party transport licence? Is there specific control over these situations of unfair or unfair competition provided for by the SPF for which you are responsible?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-24-54-commissie-ic125x.u113	Currently, 180,242 agricultural tractors are registered at IVD. Of these, 77,832 have a G plate, created in 2013. The agricultural plate is a registration plate which can be issued to a person on the basis of two conditions: to have an agricultural tractor as defined in the regulations or to have for him an authorisation from the SPF Finances which exempts him from the payment of excise duties on diesel, i.e. to allow him to roll with red diesel. If a person wishes to register an agricultural tractor at the IVD without such authorization from the FPS Finances or if he or she decides to assign the tractor to exclusively non-agricultural activities, the IVD will issue him or her an ordinary registration plate and the tractor will not be able to operate with red diesel. The G plate is therefore dependent on a tax procedure. This procedure allows for mixed use where the agricultural tractor performs alternatively excise-exempt activities and non-excess-exempt activities. The share of strictly agricultural activities must account for at least 50% of the vehicle's activities in order to qualify for this scheme, and the tractor holder must report to the FPS Finance the non-excise activities carried out and pay the full rate of excise duty for these activities. In order to carry out transport activities, the agricultural tractor must belong to a company which has a transport licence. To do so, the company must fulfil four conditions: to possess professional competence, to be actually established in Belgium, to be honorable and to have sufficient financial capacity for each vehicle covered by a licence. In addition, the transport of goods on behalf of third parties must be clearly mentioned in its statutes. An undertaking that meets the four conditions set out above may have a licence. It will receive as many certified copies per vehicle as it declares and for which it has provided sufficient security. To the extent that G-plates do not prohibit a vehicle from carrying out transport activities on behalf of third parties, the Mobility and Transport FPS must issue licences to those actors from the agricultural sector who apply for them and who meet the above conditions. Six hundred and seventeen-nine companies whose main activities are agriculture, forestry and fish farming at Banque Carrefour des Entreprises currently have a third-party transport licence. These companies do not necessarily use agricultural tractors as vehicles. As of March 23, 2015, there were 2,468 vehicles registered as agricultural tractors with a transport licence. Of these, 506 were registered with a red plate. The inspection of agricultural tractors accounts for 3.6% of the total annual checks carried out by the Road Transport Control Service of the Mobility and Transport FPS. The latter is only competent to control transport documents, petrol, driving licences, etc. In 2014, 240 checks were carried out and 13 infringements were found. I also transmit to you the number of vehicles registered as agricultural tractors by the DIV.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-24-54-commissie-ic125x.u114	Madam Minister, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-24-54-commissie-ic125x.u115	Madam Minister, on 6 March 2014, more than a year ago, the so-called flight route Leuven was introduced Straight ahead. The inhabitants to the north and east of Leuven have since been permanently confronted with additional noise pollution. That shift has provoked such outrage that eight cities and municipalities in their municipal administration have adopted a motion calling for this flight route to be revised and withdrawn. The inhabitants of Leuven know where they live and do not ask that the planes do not fly over, but they want at least the rest days back, one day at five, which they enjoyed before 6 March 2014. Madam Minister, on 21 January 2015, you stated in this committee that this route is the subject of an evaluation and consultation in the committee. The routes above Brussels were withdrawn, but the Leuven straight ahead flight route has so far been maintained. When exactly can we expect the evaluation and consultation? Can you give us an update on this file and the Leuven straight ahead? How is the evaluation carried out? Who exactly is involved in this evaluation? When will we be informed about progress? What is the deadline for this evaluation to be completed? When can the affected residents obtain any information about a possible revision of the introduction of the Leuven Straight ahead route?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-24-54-commissie-ic125x.u116	Immediately after my appointment I was allowed to meet two associations representing Leuven, the association Leuven Rechtdoor and the association Leuven West. Each association has different views on this sensitive dossier of flights above Brussels. In accordance with the coalition agreement, I asked Belgocontrol to provide me with a full evaluation of the flight route that was commissioned on 6 March 2014. On the basis of this initial evaluation, I will decide whether any other information is necessary in order to obtain an overall overview. The analysis is still ongoing. I will, of course, inform you when this has been completed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-24-54-commissie-ic125x.u117	Do you have any timing? The question has already been asked several times. When will the analysis be complete?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-24-54-commissie-ic125x.u118	Madam Minister, I heard that the retired board member of SNCB who is in charge of finance, Mr Allé, can go back to the group as a consultant. His gross allowance for accompanying his successor would be EUR 330 000. In the past we have had a visit to Mr Allé in committee. I have absolutely no doubt of his competence, knowledge and skill. So it's not about him personally, but there are questions. I know that longer work is a creed, but if one knows that one is going to retire, can one not already transfer knowledge during the career, especially since a successor has already been appointed? It is said that the dismissal allowance is converted into a special contract allowance. It is unknown to me, in the social security system, that someone who retires could also receive a redundancy allowance. I may have misread that or the newspapers were misinformed. How many staff members of SNCB and Infrabel who retired received a consultancy assignment in 2014? How much were the costs, respectively, for SNCB and Infrabel? Are there any staff who resign or are fired just before retirement in order to receive an additional redundancy allowance? Who takes the final decision on the appointment of the staff concerned as a consultant? Does this privilege apply only to directors and general managers, or does it apply to ordinary staff? For example, can a ranger be appointed as a consultant afterwards? Nor do his successors have the great knowledge he possesses. Can a regulation be drawn up to clarify in a transparent way who is really irreplaceable and who is not?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-24-54-commissie-ic125x.u119	Mr Geerts has already outlined the situation. I read in De Tijd that the person concerned was offered the consultancy assignment in exchange for some kind of retirement allowance he was entitled to and agreed upon with the previous federal government. I do not know the laws on social security very well, but like Mr Geerts I do not understand that someone who retires is still entitled to a retirement allowance. In my opinion, when people retire, the assignment ends and instead of a monthly wage they receive a monthly pension. Michel Allé, whose knowledge I do not wish to question, who was in such a position, will have some knowledge and skills, apparently will receive a retirement allowance, which will be converted into a one-year consultancy contract, worth EUR 330 000. Another mystery is that this retirement allowance is also in breach of the wage standard of EUR 290 000 per year. The correct content of the consultancy assignment is still unclear for the time being. One source says it's about expertise that needs to be transferred to support its successor. Other sources suggest that he should lead SNCB Logistics in the right direction. What is it now? Is it really about expertise, which is indispensable, or does he just have to play an expensive mother-in-law? Madam Secretary, was Michel Allé actually entitled to a benefit? Is it true that the benefit scheme is based on a contractual agreement concluded with the previous federal government? On what basis is he entitled to that? Is he the only one entitled to do so, or can other people also call upon it? What is the amount to which he is entitled, EUR 220 000 or EUR 330 000? What other members of the Management Committee are entitled to this when they retire? What is the concrete content of his consultancy assignment? Finally, Madam Secretary, what is your personal view of the consultancy mission?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-24-54-commissie-ic125x.u120	As far as Mr Geerts's question is concerned, there are no retired ex-workers recently who have been given a consultancy assignment. The employment of the former financial manager of SNCB was extended after his statutory retirement age. He was a statutory member of staff and remained in service from his retirement date 1 May 2014 until 31 January 2015 through an employment contract that excludes a termination fee. There is no question of staff resigning and receiving redundancy payments. There are no cases of staff who receive redundancy compensation after a dismissal just before their retirement. The current delegate director aims to reduce the number of consultants. The decision to call upon a consultant shall be taken by the Executive Board concerned if this is done within the budgetary margin available to the Executive Board. No consultancy assignments were awarded in 2014 to retired former SNCB staff. Sometimes, however, a solution is sought in rehiring pensioners, for example, in the case of manifest temporary problems where classical recruitment does not provide a solution. This method has been applied to Infrabel. SNCB is also considering applying this to cope with a current short-term need. Overregulation and the resulting administrative burden already pose an important problem for SNCB. Deciding on who or which position temporarily has a further added value for the company is an excellent management decision. On 19 December 2014, following the favourable opinion of the Board of Directors, Ms De Coninck unanimously approved the decision to conclude a fixed-term contract of 12 months and not a consultancy contract with Mr Michel Allé as CEO from 1 May 2015. The remuneration awarded to him is about EUR 200 000 and not EUR 330 000, which is put forward in the press. The amount corresponds to two thirds of Mr Allé's current remuneration and is equal to the eight-month termination allowance provided for in his contract of employment, which will be paid in the form of payments for benefits rendered. Mr Allé became Managing Director of Finance at SNCB-Holding on 1 October 2005 with a mandate of six years. For statutory staff who receive such a mandate, this is governed by a special agreement previously approved by the Boards of Directors of the three companies. External persons ordered by such a mandate shall be given an open-ended employment contract, which governs the relationship between the employer and the employee, and is in substance comparable to the special agreement for statutory directors. The mandate of Mr Allé was renewed with effect from 1 October 2011. On 30 September 2011, an annex was attached to his employment contract signed by the delegated directors and by the chairman of the management board of the holding company of the time. It provided for a digressive termination allowance, both in the case of unilateral dismissal by the employer and in the case of dismissal with the agreement of both parties. As a result of that degressivity, the termination fee shall be eight months from 1 May 2015 of the total salary package of one year. The mandate of Mr Allé expires on 1 May 2015 as a result of reaching the age of 65. This is laid down in SNCB's corporate statute. Thanks to the choices made by the administrative authorities, the company can rely on the expertise of the former CFO for a further 12 months while fulfilling its contractual obligation of eight months of termination. This expertise will be used at the service of the delegated directors for specific tasks, such as the follow-up of the B-Logistics file. For my part, in a letter dated 18 March, I asked Mr Cornu to entrust Mr Allé with a specific task in relation to the follow-up of the subsidiaries, for example financial monitoring of the results and of the operational investment flows between subsidiaries and parent companies, analysis of the risks involved, management and control of three risk derivatives, examination of the decision-making procedure and of the existing reporting to the parent company. Mr Allé will be asked to introduce a structural, systematic and uniform reporting of all subsidiaries to the parent company. From this, you can conclude that I find it useful to build on Mr Allé's expertise, with a view to guiding strategic dossiers and a seamless transfer of the financial files to the new CFO. The choice of the Management Board is based on good governance. I repeat that Mr Allé will carry out his mission for an amount which he would have received in the form of lump sums. However, the principle itself to call on consultants remains a major focus for me. I asked the two CEOs to provide me with an inventory of the current consultants within the SNCB Group. That exercise is under way, but I can tell you that there are two types of consultants. Firstly, consultants assigned directly to a project. Their assignment ends de facto when the project ends. Secondly, consultants in the form of body shopping, which is equivalent to subcontracting. A modernisation plan will examine the opportunity to make further use of it. As regards the other members of SNCB's Management Committee, the following termination allowances shall apply. A termination fee of 12 months is provided for only if a mandate is terminated by SNCB before the end of the entire six-year period. In the case of Mr Vincent Bourlard, it was agreed that he would be employed as Director on termination of his term of office, with a digressive termination fee of three, two and one years, if the contract of employment is terminated within two, four or six years of the termination of the term of office.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-24-54-commissie-ic125x.u121	Madam Secretary, your answer was not laconical.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-24-54-commissie-ic125x.u122	Madam Secretary, I'm glad I asked the question. After all, you have clearly outlined the contours. You have also clearly explained how the fork is in the handle. I have told you that I have no doubt whatsoever of Mr Allé's knowledge. From your answer, I can conclude that everything is contractually correct. It is perhaps also a good, additional task, which you have given Mr Allé. I now understand much better from your answer why the construction in question was chosen. All in all, it is not so bad that someone with expertise who is at the end of his career can do a number of studies in a very objective and independent way. He's the cut man for that. On the subject of consultants, I would like to say that I once opened the debate under Minister Vanackere at the time. Let me ask you again some follow-up questions on the dossier, to check whether the problem has actually been improved. I think so. I must confess that I have learned a new word, that I quickly searched through Google, namely body shopping. That's "the practice of consulting firms recruiting information technology workers." Mr President, I do not think you knew the term either.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-24-54-commissie-ic125x.u123	Thank you, because I had this question in mind. However, I did not dare to do so, given the impartiality required of a president.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-24-54-commissie-ic125x.u124	Madam Minister, thank you for your clear and detailed answer. It is still a mystery to me why the previous government extended Mr Allé's mandate for six years in 2011, knowing that he would also reach the statutory retirement age during that period, which would mean that his mandate would expire anyway. Indeed, it may be an elegant solution that he has to provide services in return for that remuneration. At the end of your reply, you also said something about Mr Bourlard. He appears to be even better off than Mr Allé when I listen to him. He may continue to be employed after his term of office and then receive a generous termination allowance if that employment is terminated. So we will continue to follow up on that dossier.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-24-54-commissie-ic125x.u125	I would just like to say that my predecessors have apparently negotiated well.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-24-54-commissie-ic125x.u126	Question No 3198 by Mrs Vanheste is transformed into a written question. Questions Nos. 3210 and 3211 by Mrs. Caroline Cassart-Mailleux were postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-24-54-commissie-ic125x.u127	Mr. Chairman, Madam Minister, the two escalators at the Braine-le-Comte station that lead to lanes 4-5 and 6-7, the most used wharves, have been down again for several months. These 40-year-old escalators are regularly out of service. In fact, they were not laid new in Braine-le-Comte since they used to equip Namur station. Their breakdown is of course a problem, making it difficult to access these important routes where the lines pass to Brussels, Mons and La Louvière in particular. Older people, PMRs, people with young children, or those carrying heavy loads such as suitcases, for example, are heavily penalized. We also have a direct line to the airport, and I thank the Minister for that. According to the information collected as at 17 March, there are no plans to repair these escalators again, with the cost of repair amounting to 13,000 euros per unit. Minister, can you confirm this information? Do you not think that repairing these escalators is a necessity? Indeed, the increase of the wharfs planned for the arrival of the RER cart is likely to wait for many more months. However, this increase will impose the total change of the escalators. In the meantime, it is an important segment of SNCB's client base that is prejudiced. Five thousand people take the train to Braine le Comte every day. On the other hand, I have learned that from 1 July, SNCB will be competent to deal with this problem, not Infrabel. What impetus could you, with your proverbial dynamism, implement to save the 5,000 users of our station in Braine-le-Comte?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-24-54-commissie-ic125x.u128	Mr.Flahaux, the management of the wharfs, their access and their equipment has been the responsibility of SNCB since 2014. SNCB is well aware of the problems associated with escalators at the 4-5 and 6-7 wharfs at the Braine-le-Comte station and regrets this situation. It was decided to put the escalators out of service, as the safety of their use cannot be guaranteed. The escalators of Braine-le-Comte date back to the 1970s and gradually arrive at the end of their lives. The vital parts of the appliances are worn out and it is difficult to find spare parts. Repairing these escalators would be costly and without a guarantee of sustainability. In addition, the umbrella shelters in Braine-le-Comte are no longer waterproof. However, in heavy rains, escalators can be subjected to weather. In addition, according to SNCB, the upgrading of the wharfs at Braine-le-Comte is not currently planned. It would therefore not be wise to replace the escalators without knowing this planning, at the risk of having to replace them again in a few years' time. SNCB is faced with delicate choices in terms of investments and priorities: repairing or replacing escalators and umbrella shelter covers, waiting for the docks to be upgraded and installing elevators. In the current budgetary context, SNCB and Infrabel are developing a modernisation plan, followed by a new Multi-Year Investment Plan 2016-2030. This exercise will provide an overall view of available budgets by activity: buildings, docks, access to docks, parking lots and make choices based on priorities and/or opportunities.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-24-54-commissie-ic125x.u129	Mr President, I thank the minister for her answer, although I am not satisfied with it. I think that at least explanations should be posted at the beginning of the wharfs, specifying why SNCB does not want to incur costs in the immediate future. One can try to understand the reasons. However, the problem of elderly persons, persons with reduced mobility or mothers with landaus remains. I see that more and more people are crossing the tracks and I fear that the persistence of the failure to operate the escalators will only exacerbate the phenomenon.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-24-54-commissie-ic125x.u130	Question No 3224 by Mr Emmanuel Burton is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-24-54-commissie-ic125x.u131	Mr President, Madam Minister, within the framework of the European Fund for Strategic Investments (Juncker Plan), Belgium would have submitted requests for the improvement of the rail network to the tune of EUR 1.1 billion. The eleven projects which are the subject of a request for co-financing grants include the RER, the optimisation of the Nord-Midi junction, the security of the network (ETCS) or the strengthening of the Brussels-Luxembourg line. We hope that the most important of these projects will be selected by the European Commission in order to improve the robustness and attractiveness of rail in Belgium. However, I have a concern, having noticed the propensity of this government for plans of savings that do not make in lace. If some of these projects were retained by the Commission, which would be a good thing, what would happen to the corresponding amounts entered in the IPP and the budgets of Infrabel and SNCB? Where appropriate, these budgets will constitute a necessary air bubble for the future of the rail network. As such, it is necessary that the amounts equivalent to any European subsidies should therefore remain dedicated to priority investments in the Belgian rail network. Madam Minister, can you reassure me of what will happen to the equivalent of the amounts of investment that would be granted by the European Commission to Belgium under the Juncker Plan?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-24-54-commissie-ic125x.u132	Mr Cheron, the applications for subsidies to which you refer have not been submitted under the European Fund for Strategic Investments but within the framework of the Connecting Europe Facility – Transport programme of the European Commission. As a reminder, the aim of the European Commission's programme is to eliminate bottlenecks in the trans-European transport network and to build the missing links in this network. This programme supports the development of a seamless transport chain for passengers and goods with a view to ensuring the proper functioning of the European internal market. On 11 September 2014, the Commission launched new calls for projects with a budget of almost EUR 11.93 billion. These calls closed on 3 March and the results are expected to be known in July. In order to be submitted to the Commission, applications for subsidies must be validated by the Member States concerned. For example, any request for subsidies for railway projects in Belgium had to be validated by the Mobility and Transport FPS before grant applicants could submit their applications to the Commission. In total, the Mobility and Transport FPS validated 22 applications for grants for private and public companies active in the Belgian rail sector. Of these files, twelve concerned projects by Infrabel and SNCB. The amount of aid requested for these projects is EUR 443 million. The funds that could be obtained for these projects will consolidate their funding structure and should ensure their implementation. It is clear that, with a view to future revisions of the multi-annual railway investment plan, I undertake to ensure that the necessary federal allocations are allocated to the projects selected for European co-financing, in order to enable Infrabel and SNCB to carry out these projects within the time limits announced to the European Commission. In order to maximize our chances of obtaining these subsidies, I have also written letters of support to the latter.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-24-54-commissie-ic125x.u133	Minister, thank you for the many clarifications you have made. You made it clear that the right path to Europe was not the Juncker Plan. I was obviously misinformed or informed. On the other hand, you have indicated that 12 projects have been selected, not eleven. You also indicated that if the Commission responded positively – which we all want – the decisions taken under the Multiannual Investment Plan would be respected. In any case, I will not fail to come back to you and ask you again, especially in the event of a positive response from Europe.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-24-54-commissie-ic125x.u134	Mr President, Minister, I am pleased that Mr Raskin is still here. In the report on a question relating to the Hasselt-Neerpelt line and whether or not it should be included in the investment plan, I read that it is better that there should be a regionalisation of SNCB. I have absolutely no problem with it, and Mr Raskin may know that he is defending that view. Fortunately, everyone in this house is free to take positions. However, as a member of the opposition, I do ask myself the following question: as an important partner in the government, on the Flemish side, the main partner, that position, was it discussed at the time the coalition agreement was negotiated? After all, Mr Raskin's vision does not fall out of the sky. That is why I would like to know whether this slope was presented at the time of the discussion of the coalition agreement. Was it planned to set up inter-kabinette working groups to see if SNCB could be split up? Are there any technical working groups studying the technical implications of this? If the main partner in the government says that this would be much better, apart from the fact that I personally do not agree, I think that Mr Raskin will allow me to have a different view on this matter, it is important for me to know whether the government has agreed to discuss this in inter-kabinets working groups already during this parliamentary term.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-24-54-commissie-ic125x.u135	Mr President, no, regionalisation is not an option. However, it is useful to work closely with the Regions, since they also have important competences in the area of Mobility. In order to define a strategic vision of intermodality in our country, I will start a task force with regional governments in May. This option was not discussed during government formation, so no working groups were set up for this purpose either, nor is it currently relevant and necessary to examine the technical consequences of a division. The previous government took note of the priority list of each Region in December 2013. The projects still had to be selected definitively, taking into account their investment and operating costs, their socio-economic impact and their alignment with the federal rail strategy. The principle of the sliding multi-annual investment plan was also adopted, with a first revision in 2015, in order to achieve a multi-annual investment plan 2016-2030. Discussions with Infrabel and SNCB on the revision of the multi-annual investment plan have begun. This should take into account the savings measures decided by the government, their impact on the projects that can still be implemented within the new budgetary framework, and possibly also on changed priorities. I would also like to inform you that the Special Law of 6 January 2014 on the Sixth State Reform states that the Regions can provide additional funding for the construction, adaptation or modernisation of the railway lines. This additional regional funding will have to respect proportionality with regard to federal funding. This proportionality will have to be laid down in a mandatory cooperation agreement between the Federal Government and the Region concerned. This cooperation agreement will therefore be a precondition for additional regional funding.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-24-54-commissie-ic125x.u136	Madam Secretary, the opposition agrees with your answer. I think it is very important for the regions to be involved in mobility policy. The regions must play a role in the boards of directors and be involved in the policy. A list of priorities should therefore be adopted by the different regions so that a number of bottlenecks can be resolved and together, within the framework of federalism of cooperation, they can provide funding for better accessibility and mobility.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-24-54-commissie-ic125x.u137	Mr President, I would like to take the floor for a personal statement on the basis of Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-24-54-commissie-ic125x.u138	The Rules of Procedure do not provide for the application of rule 55 in committee. You cannot invoke an article that does not exist and I cannot give you the floor on the basis of an article that does not exist.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-24-54-commissie-ic125x.u139	Mr President, there is a basis, namely Article 55 on the personal fact.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-24-54-commissie-ic125x.u140	It does not apply in committee. You can sing anything you want for hours, it won't work. The chairman cannot give you the floor on the basis of an article that does not mention the personal fact in committee. I can tell you again, if you wish.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-24-54-commissie-ic125x.u141	Madam Minister, the future of the BIGS has been regularly discussed here since the state reform and the revision of powers. Mrs Genoe came to the committee and explained her vision for the future at the BIVV. In general terms, the aim is to develop two pillars: on the one hand, a continuation of activities in support of federal road safety policy, on the other hand, a kind of service business for companies and public authorities who want to draw on the knowledge and know-how that are indisputably present at the BIPV. It could be used, for example, to organise a PDO campaign in the regions, on which there has been a lot of work to be done in recent weeks. My specific question is how and when will the structures of the BIVV be adapted? It would be bizarre for the Flemish minister to instruct an institution under the chairmanship of the competent federal minister to organise a particular campaign. I assume that the company will have to go through a lot of reorganisations in the next few weeks and months. In essence, apart from the written questions, that is the essence of the question. How will the structure of the BIVV as a company and as a non-profit association in support of the minister evolve in the coming months? In addition, it was agreed in the government agreement that work would be carried out on an institute of accidentology and possibly also an observatory for mobility. I would like to know to what extent the BIVV will play its own role in the future, for example by taking care of accidentology?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-24-54-commissie-ic125x.u142	Mr Van den Bergh, I fully support the view of Mrs Karin Genoe, deputy director of the BIVV, as set out for the committee on 4 March. In reply to your questions, I will therefore repeat the following elements. The vision of independence while maintaining the core tasks of the government in the non-profit organisation is a vision that was explained and shared by the CEO of the BIVV during the Board of Directors of December 2014. The Governing Board approved the analysis for the development of this vision in December 2014. I took the first step towards developing the vision during my first board of directors in December 2014. The CEO is currently working on the analysis and development of the vision implementation plan. This will continue at the next Management Board in May 2015. The vision is separate from the sixth state reform and, in my view, should have been implemented before, since one third of the revenues of the BIPV in the past were revenues from services to third parties. An important part of the activities, present and past, are activities that are not part of the core tasks of the government and therefore it is important to integrate them into an independent structure. The BIVV has participated in the public tender and has done so as a non-profit organisation, as the structure has not changed yet. As a tenderer, the BIVV has determined its price, I suppose on the basis of market prices. The Mobility Observatory within the FPS Mobility has a different finality than the BIVV and both are complementary. However, cooperation between the two has already begun. The objective of the Mobility Directorate is to make the Observatory a centre of knowledge. It is indeed correct that I should like to set up an institute of accidentology as well. In the short term, the BIVV will set up a number of targeted projects for that research. In addition to this pragmatic approach, which was discussed with me, I am working on a legislative framework for accidentology. How the BIVV will fit in is still to be worked out.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-24-54-commissie-ic125x.u143	Madam Secretary, thank you for your very full answer. You formulate a clear vision for the future of the BIVV. I think we can only support you in that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-24-54-commissie-ic125x.u144	Mr President, Madam Minister, as you know, cleanliness is of great concern to me. I would like to denounce a delicate situation in the parking lot at the station in Tournai. I have received a lot of complaints from commuters taking the train to Tournai about the number of waste present in this parking lot, located along Eisenhower Boulevard. Since this parking lot has been paying for a few years, it is legitimate for users to demand that it be clean. Have you heard of these complaints? Do you intend to act to ensure that these commuters have a proper level of cleanliness at the place, which I remind them is paying for, where they park their vehicle?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-24-54-commissie-ic125x.u145	Mr Delannois, SNCB's B-parking subsidiary, operating the car parks in Tournai station, is not aware of any complaints from travellers about the cleanliness of these sites. The monthly cleanliness barometer scored 88.19%. It is a cleanliness instrument used by an internal service of the SNCB. The result is displayed in the station. This check shall be carried out within the perimeter of the station, including in parking spaces. The last one took place on 5 March; parking was 88%. The rubbish that surrounds the parking lot along Eisenhower Boulevard comes from the vicinity of the station. On the sidewalk, a communal garbage can is present and overflows every day. As in many neighbourhoods around the stations, this garbage can is fed by the residents who come to drop small bags filled with various garbage. Every morning, SNCB agents must pick up the waste that slipped under the concrete fence and ended up in the parking lot. They remain vigilant to remedy this. I will shortly invite SNCB to contact the municipal authorities so that they can jointly consider appropriate measures to improve cleanliness around the station in Tournai.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-24-54-commissie-ic125x.u146	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. I look forward to their contact. I think there's a problem sometimes. I'll go see for myself. We'll talk about it later.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-24-54-commissie-ic125x.u147	Mr President, I would like to thank the interpreters. Being sometimes tired, my pronunciation is not always excellent.
