ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic250x.u1	Mr Minister, at the beginning of July, the federal government once again extended the rental of the Tilburg prison in the Netherlands. According to your press statements, this rental is expected to end in December 2016. Until then, the 500 remaining detainees will have to be repatriated. Although the overcrowding of our prisons is currently declining with the opening of other places of detention, the absorption of the 360 Dutch-speaking and 140 French-speaking prisoners will not be a sinecure and will increase the overcrowding by almost 5%. However, the new prisons that are not yet filled will soon be completed, and the remaining ones will not, for the most part, be completed in 2016. My question is therefore very simple, Minister. What do you intend to do with these inmates? Can you give us a timing and give us details of how this repatriation took place? Is it already decided to which prisons these detainees will be referred? Thank you in advance for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic250x.u2	Mr Minister, in July the government decided to extend the rental of cells in the Tilburg prison in the Netherlands by one year. It was announced last week that, since this rental is due to end on December 31, 2016, you were working on a repatriation scenario to ensure that there are no more Belgian detainees in Tilburg. I am pleased that this rental is ending and that your schedule gives you time to properly organize this repatriation. Minister, how many Belgian prisoners are still incarcerated in Tilburg? How fast do you plan returns? What information will make it possible for you to be certain that the rental of these cells abroad will no longer be necessary at the end of 2016? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic250x.u3	Mr President, Mr Vanden Burre, on 10 July 2015 the Council of Ministers extended by one year the agreement on the operation of the Tilburg prison until the end of 2016. My administration is preparing an exit plan. The 500 prisoners will be distributed in the various prisons, taking into account the capacity of each of them. At this stage, I cannot give more details on repatriation, as the exit plan is being developed. Pending these returns and the finalization of the action plan, I am prepared to take legislative initiatives to keep the prison population under control.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic250x.u4	Thank you, Minister. We do not yet have all the answers to the questions asked; you have just given us the reason. We will, of course, remain attentive to these elements in committee. It would be interesting to have more information on the timing of the repatriation of detainees. How long does your action plan last? If you do not have any reply, we shall return to the matter in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic250x.u5	Mr President, Minister, as the Justice FPS site states: "A prison policy aimed at preventing, managing and limiting drug addiction in prison is indispensable. Thus, these prisoners will be able to successfully resume their place in society and will have less risk of falling back into drug addiction." Ministerial Circular No. 1785 of 18 July 2006 on the problem of drugs requires, inter alia, the establishment of a central steering group within the prison administration and a local group in each prison. Local Drug Steering Groups (LDGs) have become over time essential bodies for the effective collaboration between prison professionals and outside services for the benefit of prisoners. Despite this need, few local groups continue to meet, either because of a lack of human resources or a lack of will on the part of the management of the establishment. Similarly, the central drug steering group, which is to define the policy and guidelines to be implemented by local groups, has no longer appeared to have met for several years. The Assuétudes Prisons Brussels and FEDITO Brussels have already tried to question you on this subject on several occasions, without getting any answer from you. I therefore allow myself, Minister, to take over from these associations in order to draw your attention to this issue. Were you aware of this problem? What will you do to ensure that the 2006 Ministerial Circular is effectively implemented in all prisons? In your Justice Plan, you announce that a comprehensive health plan for the organization of inmate and inmate health care is being drafted, which should take into account the specific needs of the target groups (such as drug-addicted inmates). When will this plan be finalized and what will it include as specific provisions on drug addiction?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic250x.u6	Mr Vanden Burre, I agree with you that the problem of drug addicts is a very important one. I agree with you that we need to invest more resources in the fight against drug addiction in prison together with all the actors involved. Instructions on prevention, repression and treatment remain current and continue to be applied on the ground. Concertation with the Communities continues to work. Even more, some new initiatives are emerging: substitution treatment via Suboxone has been successfully tested in Lantin and can be extended to other prisons. The fight against drug addiction in all its aspects therefore remains a priority despite the difficulties resulting from economic measures. As for your question about a comprehensive health plan, discussions are under way with my colleague in charge of Public Health. It has to be realized, however, that this is a huge project whose problem of drug addiction is only one aspect. The work has begun but it is still too early to be able to communicate concrete results. Nevertheless, I confirm that the treatment of drug addicts is part of the discussion.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic250x.u7	Minister, it is interesting to note that discussions are taking place with the Health authorities on the overall health plan. I will therefore refer the matter to your colleague responsible for this matter. For us, the fundamental question is whether drug addicts have their place in prison and whether they would be better off in other institutions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic250x.u8	Mr. President, Minister, people under electronic surveillance are denied social integration income (RIS) by the competent CPAS on the grounds that they are dependent on the FPS Justice and therefore cannot also depend on the FPS Social Integration. If requested, these persons are entitled to a FPS Justice allowance. However, this important information given to the persons concerned is unfortunately often incomplete and delivered in a context that does not allow them to make an informed choice. In fact, the Justice FPS allowance is lower than the social integration income and this difference increases from year to year as it has not been reviewed since 2007 and does not follow the indexation of income. This inevitably leads to a worsening of the precarious situation for these people, further exacerbated by the increase in the administrative procedures for obtaining the allowance. There are, of course, few people who have the means to bring to court the question of the CPAS's refusal to intervene in the form of social assistance or discrimination due to the fact that the FPS Justice allowance is less than RIS. However, when, exceptionally, a case of this kind comes before the Labour Court, the persons obtain a successful case, in the form of supplementary social assistance to compensate for the difference between the two benefits. It is therefore essential to put an early end to this situation, which has been denounced for some time already by the field workers of aid to the litigants. Minister, given the increasing number of people on electronic bracelets, what are you planning on doing to end this situation? How long? Furthermore, is it possible for you to transfer the financial resources from the Justice FPS, which currently grants the replacement allowances, to the Social Integration PPS, which could therefore finance the CPAS concerned? If not, would it be possible to revise the method of calculating the Justice FPS allocation to ensure that the amount is systematically indexed and monitored in line with the evolution of social integration income, by including in this calculation the additional costs associated with restrictions on electronic monitoring?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic250x.u9	Mr President, Mr Vanden Burre, pursuant to Article 23(2) of the Law of 26 May 2002 on the right to social integration, which provides that the King shall fix the cases in which the payment is suspended in respect of the beneficiary who is the subject of a detention or imprisonment order, Article 39(1) of the Royal Decree of 11 July 2002 provides that the payment of integration income shall be suspended during the period during which a person is placed, under the responsibility of the public authorities, in an institution of any kind in pursuance of a judicial decision, as well as that during which a person is sentenced to deprivation of liberty and remains in the role of a penitentiary institution. The payment of integration income shall be reinstated for the future following the execution of the judicial decision, as well as in the event of provisional or conditional release. An inmate who is subject to the penalty of deprivation of liberty under electronic supervision remains in the role of a prison. Because of the above-mentioned legal provisions, this person is not entitled to the payment of an income of social integration even if he or she resides in his or her own home and has to support himself or herself for his or her maintenance. In order also to allow persons who do not have sufficient means of subsistence to undergo their sentence or part of it under electronic supervision, the SPF Justice awarded a lump sum allowance to these detainees, which allows them to cover their housing and maintenance costs. As part of the sixth reform of the State, the Houses of Justice and the National Electronic Monitoring Centre were transferred to the Communities. It follows that since 1 January 2015 payment is made via the Communities. I also find that the existing situation in which a different allowance is paid to persons under electronic supervision than to other persons who benefit from integration income is difficult to defend and not conducive to reintegration. In my discussions with my colleagues in the Communities at the Interministerial Conference of Houses of Justice, I realized that they also have questions in this regard. I will therefore discuss with my federal colleague on social integration, Mr Willy Borsus, how we could grant social integration income instead of a social integration allowance to people who are facing their sentences under electronic supervision.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic250x.u10	Thank you, Minister, for your answers. I note that you also find that the principle of having income from different allowances between what the Justice FPS grants and what is granted through social integration income is difficult to accept. I am pleased to hear that you will take action with Minister Borsus. We will not fail to also question Minister Borsus on this matter and to return to committee if necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic250x.u11	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Vanheste's 5755 will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic250x.u12	Minister, it is a question that dates from before the recess. It's almost a question from the old box, but that's why it can't be less interesting to know the answer. At the end of April 2015, reports were published in newspapers that the Prime Minister of the Prison Service was chained by the Minister. The signature of the Director-General of the Prison Directorate was withdrawn, including any delegation. In fact, a number of questions had arisen with regard to a number of invoices. The FPS Justice Department responded immediately and announced that nothing was going on there. According to the FPS, there were no problems, the professional expenses were justified and there were no deficiencies. You know what the media makes of that. I've got a title here: Prison boss punished for marzipan guys. I don't think I should remind you of that. What appears now, by the Inspector of Finance was made difficult about a gift to the staff, so marzipans guys, but also about the New Year reception, hotel fees and so on. Apparently, there was also a complaint that there was too little transparency and that the budget had been exceeded. Anyway, a hell of a lot of comments. It is the same finance inspector who also blocked a number of investments for the prison system. I'm thinking of the computer system to monitor the inmates, surveillance cameras in prison, measures against radicalisation in prisons. He would have stopped all these investments. Then there will be a discussion and there will be a problem of word and reply. The remark made by the Prisoners was earlier: the problem is with the Treasury Inspector. At that time, you ordered a global audit of the general management's accounts. It should have been completed during June. In the media, we have been able to read that the accounts were indeed quite correct. That all the accounts were present and everything was well classified. The Director-General has asked for a recovery of honour and you have said that you still had faith in the top man. However, that raises a number of questions, Minister. First of all, can you explain the main conclusions of that audit you ordered? Has it been completely completed or was it just the first conclusions? Can we know about that? Can you confirm that the Chief Prisoner has been restored and there is nothing to blame? For me, it is an important question: is it a standard procedure that a critical report by the Finance Inspector immediately takes the power of signature? If that is not a standard procedure, on what criteria was this decision taken? It's about some extra budgets for water, for food, heating, a marzipan boy at the end of the year instead of a reception. That does not seem to me to be so much to decide suddenly that someone who runs such a large organization should hand in his signature. Also very interesting, are there any other files in which the same finance inspector blocked a number of cases? In the meantime, have these cases gotten in order, or are they still being stopped? The most important question is what measures are being taken to ensure transparency in the invoicing between the Prisoners on the one hand and the Prisoners on the other? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic250x.u13	Mrs De Wit, thank you for your concern about the reputation of executives in the Justice Department. Both Justice and everyone working for Justice have an exemplary role to play and should be undisputed. Where worrying comments are made on accounting, the regularisation of transactions and compliance with public procurement legislation in the event of a delay, this should be cleared in all serenity and respect for all concerned. That was the guiding principle when the Minister for the Budget and I were caught by a series of comments from the inspection following the regularisation of EUR 606 156 in late invoices, including EUR 25 261 reception and representation costs. Together with the Minister of Budget and the President of the FPS Justice, it has been decided to have further investigation ordered by the Treasury Inspection Corps. Pending the results of this investigation, as a measure of order in the interests of the department and in order to protect the manager concerned, the chairman of the FPS was asked to exercise the power of delegation for the duration of the investigation in relation to the operational and investment expenditure of the Directorate-General for Prisons. The additional investigation was limited to the 2014 accounts. For this purpose, we worked with as wide a sample as possible. The investigation was conducted on the basis of a contradictory procedure and all parties involved cooperated constructively. The conclusion was that the accounts were kept correctly but that there was no real independence between the Directorate-General for Prison Labour and the Directorate-General for Prisons. The interests of the Regie are subordinate to the DG. The appropriations of the DG are exhaustive but the expenditure of the Regie has no limitations but the availability of the funds. Following this examination, the Director-General was automatically able to retain all his initial powers of delegation. He agreed on the better separation of the activities of the FPS and the Directorate of Prison Labour, strict compliance with public procurement legislation and further efforts to rationalise the management of available resources. The usual procedure has been followed. Article 13 of the Royal Decree of 15 November 1994 on administrative and budgetary control was implemented. A negative opinion from the inspection can always be appealed to the Minister for the Budget and, finally, if this negative opinion is confirmed by the Council of Ministers. In the present case, it must be said that the original opinion did not block the payments submitted. However, the comments were of such a nature that the Minister for the Budget considered it necessary to order two other inspectors to draw up an additional opinion. Finally, the main thing is that, in the meantime, serenity and confidence have been restored in order to continue working together on the road, to clean up the backlogs, to avoid future ones, to organise the most economical and efficient division of labour possible, and all this within legal and budgetary standards. More specifically, there is also a need for further reflection on the suggestion of the Treasury Inspectorate on the further independence of the Directorate of Prison Labour. It needs to be used even more as a performant tool to provide meaningful work to prisoners for their reintegration into society.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic250x.u14	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. By the way, I very much agree with your conclusion. The most important thing is that serenity is back, that the behinds are cleaned and that new ones are avoided. This seems to me to be the core lesson in the whole story. It is only a pity that certain people have to come into this picture in such a way. The restoration of honour is good, but I think services need to learn respectfully how to work together. I have missed that very much in this dossier. I hope that serenity can return to this level so that this does not happen again, because I do not think anyone is served by this.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic250x.u15	... [[Not containing micro]] There is a direct line between certain people and certain media.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic250x.u16	I wasn't talking about you, Minister. I was actually talking about the jousting between the inspector and the Director-General. It was me about the bad relationship between the two. It wasn't about you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic250x.u17	Mr President, Minister, I have three questions about electronic surveillance. They were joined together, but all three are different, so I'll put them together. Since the sixth state reform, the Communities have been responsible for the justice houses and for electronic supervision. Not so long ago they issued a new contract for the rental of an electronic surveillance system for a period of five years. In addition to the usual ankle bracelets, the victims are also considered. The specifications also require certain devices for victims, namely an operative distance of the perpetrator/victim "DADS'. In concrete terms, a GPS device should also be able to geolocate the victim and the victim should be warned when the device placed under electronic supervision is approaching. The victim must have that on him every time he moves. The device must be discreet, but that's obvious. In Spain, the system is already working successfully. In cases of intra-family violence, it would be very useful. We also read in the specifications that about 3 000 convicts must be able to be monitored permanently with electronic surveillance. At present there are about 2 000. This is part of your plans to work more and more with electronic monitoring. Finally, the tender also calls for an option for voice recognition. The current system of automatic dial-in and the condemned person's response would be abandoned because not only the system is too burdensome, but also speech recognition does not go as it should. Mr Minister, I have the following questions. Was the joint procurement of the Communities prepared in consultation with the federal level? How will the victims be more involved in the electronic monitoring system? How many such DADS systems are ordered? Is that decision final yet? If not, when will it be known with certainty whether such devices will also be purchased for the victims? Will an increase in the number of ankle tyres from 2 000 to 3 000 be sufficient for your ambitious plans? Then we have the link to the federal level, so that we can work more and more with electronic surveillance. Which new system of electronic monitoring with voice recognition will be chosen? Can you confirm that the current system of voice recognition is not working properly? What problems have been identified? You will say that this is now a Flemish matter and that you are no longer competent to do so. I think it is important for a Minister of Justice, who still has to work around punishments, to know how many convicted people are already serving their sentence today with the current system of speech recognition. Will this system be phased out in view of the problems? There is even more going on with regard to electronic surveillance, Minister. That is the second question. This is about lack of guidance from the convict. You probably remember that your predecessor also intended to work with alternative sanctions. With more ET, the prison population could fall. Not only did she think of increasing the number of ankle straps, but she also wanted to make the procedure faster and cheaper. The preliminary study had been deleted, the social survey had been deleted, the guidance had been removed very often. We have always expressed reservations about this, because we believe that guidance is essential for electronic surveillance in order to ensure that the punishment goes well. In the meantime, this is ongoing and the effects are being investigated, but you will probably have read that a criminalist has devoted a study to this. It states that the measures adopted at that time are not good because they are under-guided. That was in an article in De Standaard in July 2015. She says once again that this is extremely important for reintegration. I know that this reintegration is very important to you too. We know that from your Justice Plan. There must then be electronic surveillance with an individual route, with a very crucial aspect such as the timetable, otherwise that penalty will have no effect. We must not choose quantity, but we must choose quality. The doctorate also states that electronic supervision is a favour, which Mrs Turtelboom has always denied. That's where it'll be confirmed. There will be a new decree on the justice houses at Flemish level. You support that in your policy, including in terms of punishment. I would like to know how you evaluate the use of ET and the reduced personal guidance, especially in the light of the current doctorate. After all, you want to expand it to reduce the prison population. Will you be involved with the FPS Justice in the evaluation of electronic monitoring? If so, what position will you take on individual guidance? You know of a similar evaluation in Wallonia. Do you know if there will be an increase in guidance there? Finally, there are the waiting lists at the justice houses. I apologize, but I cannot put these three combined questions into one question. Figures were requested from the Minister of Welfare, responsible for the justice houses. This shows that the justice houses are lagging behind very much. If I understand correctly, that is 2 080 files. A lot of people are on the ET waiting list. In criminal execution there are 532. There are several reasons for this. Not only have the waiting lists been transferred at federal level. They've been set to zero, but they've actually just been transferred. Moreover, many vacancies at the justice houses have not been filled by the recruitment stop. That is a very precarious situation. They're trying to get rid of that now, but that's not obvious. We are also concerned in Flanders because we know what your plans are, Minister. We do not know whether we are going to be able to keep up with this, with the backlog that is already there. When designing your policy, it is important to have an insight into this too. I assume you know how large the waiting lists were at the time of regionalization and how they evolved when they were still federal jurisdiction? How many percent of the staff were also filled in at the time the justice houses were regionalised? Will you provide transitional measures for your plans for the extension of electronic surveillance so that the Communities have the opportunity to put their own house in order first in order to be able to sustain the enlargement that you want so badly? This has been channeled from one level to another. Something is decided at this level, but it must be possible to strengthen it there. I believe that the principle of communicating vessels and communication in general will be essential.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic250x.u18	Minister, in line with the sixth state reform, justice houses and electronic supervision have recently become Community powers. Since 1 January 2015, staff and resources have been transferred to the Communities. Officially, however, no agreement has yet been reached on the conditions and status of staff. That leads to quite a few anomalies at the moment. For example, in electronic supervision, French-speaking and Dutch-speaking staff perform the same job in the same building. At the courthouses, there's a difference in pay. French-speaking staff have kept everything, wages, contributions, careers, whereas this is not the case for Dutch-speaking staff. They receive a wage and career from the Flemish government, which is lower than at the federal level. The Flemish staff used to receive a telephone fee. This would be replaced by a mobile phone with a subscription. The fee was abolished on 1 January, but the staff does not yet have a mobile phone. I can go on like this for a while. The agreement would have been forwarded to the Council of State. Where are we on the integration of former federal officials into the Flemish justice houses? Has the Council of State commented on the agreement? If so, which one? What action will be taken on this? When do you expect a final agreement?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic250x.u19	Ms De Wit, Mr Van Hecke, the services concerned, including their staff, have been transferred to the Communities since 1 January 2015, pursuant to the Special Law of 6 January 2014 on the Sixth State Reform. In this sense, I must essentially refer to the Communities for an answer to your questions. However, on the basis of the information I have received from my colleagues in the Communities, I will try to inform you as accurately as possible. Your first question concerns the introduction of the DADS, the operative distance of the perpetrator-victim, the electronic surveillance and the problems with the system of speech recognition. For the joint procurement of the Communities, I would like to remind you of the full transfer of competence with regard to the organisation, operation and tasks of the courts and of the competent department which ensures the development and follow-up of electronic supervision. Since 1 January 2015, the Communities have been fully responsible for the commitments, authorisations and payments resulting from the application of the laws, regulations or decisions relating to the implementation and follow-up of electronic supervision. The joint tender was prepared in consultation between the three Communities, in compliance with the cooperation agreement of 10 December 2014 between the Flemish Community, the French Community and the German-speaking Community on the management of electronic surveillance. Article 4 (1) of the Cooperation Agreement provides for the Community to exercise its own powers of electronic supervision in a coordinated manner, inter alia where logistical and technical cooperation can bring added value. The federal level was therefore not involved in the tender. The DADS is an alarm unit, worn by the victim, which continuously tracks movements and locations using GPS technology. That alarm uses an algorithm that constantly calculates the proximity of the perpetrator. Where the victim's unit detects that the perpetrator is within the 500-metre limit zone, the unit shall generate a near-on-off alert and report it to the monitoring centre. I understand that this element was included in the handbook, but today there is no decision on the introduction of such a system. The voice recognition system is only used in a very limited number of cases. The application in the initial phase showed that there were disturbances or inaccuracies which are often related to the environment context of the execution site or the person of the convicted person. In the French Community the system is not currently being applied, inter alia because there was no control between 22 and 6 hours to respect the sleep of the person concerned. In Flanders, only in a number of exceptional cases is voice recognition still chosen, especially for medical reasons that have been attested, for safety reasons for the justitive self, for example by the working sector in which the right person is employed, and for reasons where it is absolutely not appropriate to use a classic ankle strap. For the rest, no further information can be provided as the procurement procedure is still ongoing. I will then reply to your question about the individual accompaniment of convicts with an ankle bracelet. The reduction of guidance and the disappearance of social surveys was motivated by a number of arguments related to the speed of the electronic monitoring system and the efficient use of limited resources. I understand that an evaluation of the system from Flanders is included in the process of preparing the new Justice Houses Decree. This will be the subject of a conference in December 2016 in which all stakeholders will be heard. Ook in de Franse Gemeenschap is voorzien in een evaluatie, getiteld ‘Reflections on the meaning of electronic monitoring and how it should be implemented in practice, in particular with regard to the prior implementation of electronic monitoring, the individualisation of measurement and the intensity of monitoring'. This will take the form of a study that will begin in 2016. Thirdly, a question was asked about waiting lists at the justice houses when they were transferred to the Community. I will make available to the secretariat of the committee the figures I have received from the Communities. These figures provide an insight into the evolution of waiting lists within the different sectors of the justice houses. However, I would point out that it is about a snapshot that is not always representative. For example, the relatively long waiting list at the end of 2014 is linked to the operational transition to the Communities. There have always been fluctuations in the waiting lists. In the individual sectors, too, there are sometimes strong variations in waiting lists, such as in e-monitoring surveys. In recent years, there has been a strong commitment to eliminating waiting lists through action plans. Other factors also play a role, such as the abolition of the compulsory social survey which has just been discussed. As far as guidance is concerned, the then action plan for the elimination of waiting lists has led to increased capacity in justice homes through measures such as the standardisation of timetables. I regularly consult with fellow Members of the Communities to ensure that cooperation between the Federal Government and the Communities in the field of justice houses and electronic supervision is smooth. In accordance with the cooperation agreement of 17 December 2013 concerning the performance of the tasks of the justice houses, there is a structured consultation within the Inter-Ministerial Conference Justice Houses. Where amendments are proposed to the tasks of the justice houses or other initiatives are proposed that have or may have an impact on the implementation capacity of the justice houses, consultations are always provided for. So far, very constructive cooperation has been established with the Communities and good agreements have been made to ensure that they can carry out their tasks properly. Finally, as far as Mr Van Hecke's question is concerned, it concerns the Staff Regulations of officials who, since 1 January this year, have been the sole competence of the Flemish Community. I should therefore refer to the Minister responsible for the Flemish public office, Mrs Liesbeth Homans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic250x.u20	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply. I think that cooperation will be very much needed. I am very concerned about electronic surveillance because it is a key point in your policy, with the prison population on the one hand. As a result of that sixth state reform, you are not on the steering wheel because it is a Flemish competence. There too, however, is the consequences of the decisions that are being taken here. A very close cooperation will be essential to ensure that people do not get their hands on them and that they can still be properly supervised. After all, we know that this guidance is essential. Otherwise electronic surveillance will not help and we will be repeated and we will be even further away from home. On the other hand, you need the Communities very much so that your policy on the prison population can succeed. If you are having a conversation and a decree is being issued on justice houses, I would ask you not to completely drop the aspect of social survey and supervision and review of individuals, because otherwise people will hardly know who is being given an anklet. There are a lot of people for whom this is the perfect solution for reintegration, job retention and victim compensation, but there are some that do not. I am thinking of people who, in the event of intra-family violence, are put back into their family environment with an ankle bracelet. These are situations that cannot be dealt with now because these surveys are no longer available. That is particularly unfortunate because that undermines the good in electronic supervision.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic250x.u21	Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister for his very comprehensive answer to my specific question. I wanted to try because I thought you might be aware of the agreements that had to be concluded. My colleague in the Flemish Parliament has already put similar questions to Mrs Homans and I look forward very much to her reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic250x.u22	Question No 5814 by Mr Demeyer is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic250x.u23	Mr President, Minister, I wonder about the legislation on the legal possession of weapons in Belgium and about the fluctuations it has suffered, the latest of which (Royal Decree of 15 July 2015) concerns historical, folk and decorative weapons (HFD). This new order, which replaces the one of 8 May 2013 on the removal of the list of HFD weapons and published in the Belgian Monitor on 31 July, is currently causing a great deal of excitement among arms lovers. They deplore, as a first step, the drafting of the decree, that the sector, along with the Consultative Council on Arms and, in all likelihood, the Council of State, were not consulted. They deplore, in a second phase, the application of the decree, the unfortunate consequences it will have on persons who have regulated their HFD weapons with confidence, on the basis of the provisions of the Royal Decree of 8 May 2013. Minister, do you confirm to me that the proceedings to which I have just referred were not consulted at the time of the drafting of the new Order concerning HFD weapons? If so, why were they not? In addition, how can the government condone such sudden and unexplained fluctuations in the Arms Act? These, in addition to involving incessant adaptations for citizens with weapons, contribute to making legislation that is already difficult in normal times even more incomprehensible to them.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic250x.u24	Mr President, Mr Clarinval, the Royal Decree of 8 May 2013 amending the Royal Decree of 20 September 1991 on firearms of historical, folk or decorative interest (HFD) and firearms rendered unfit for firing was the subject of an action for annulment before the Council of State. In its supplementary report of 23 April 2015, the auditor raising the plea of ex officio held that the Royal Decree had been annulled, certain articles of which had not been submitted as such for notice to the Council of State. These are transitional provisions to allow as many holders as possible to declare their HFD weapons, as well as a derogation on security measures (Articles 3 and 4 of the Royal Decree). In order to avoid the legal vacuum resulting from the announced cancellation, the Royal Decree of 8 May 2013 had to be replaced as a matter of urgency by a new Royal Decree not containing these provisions. In its opinion, the Council of State had not objected to the principle of the submission to authorization of HFD weapons by royal decree. The Royal Decree of 15 July 2015 replacing the one of 8 May 2013 therefore incorporated this principle, which was included in the version which had been submitted for the opinion of the Legislative Section of the Council of State and which had also been submitted twice for the opinion of the Consultative Council on Arms, on 27 March and 14 December 2012. In the light of the auditor's opinion, it was not possible, given the urgency, to consult with the Consultative Council on Arms or to make new transitional arrangements in order to make possible the declaration of undeclared HFD weapons. It always takes place free of charge according to the general rules on the subject. The Royal Decree of 15 July 2015 is therefore in no way intended to create difficulties for holders of HFD weapons in good faith. The transitional period planned for 2013 has expired since then. HFD weapons are and remain subject to authorization. The persons who declared them as a result of the coming into force of the Royal Decree of 2013 did not suffer any harm. They currently hold their HFD weapons in a completely legal manner. A person who currently wishes to regularize an HFD weapon subject to authorization must do so in accordance with the normal procedure in force, free of charge. As for the derogation on security measures, it is envisaged to re-establish it, even retroactively in mitius, as part of the revision to the project, in order to achieve the government agreement, of the Royal Decree of 24 April 1997 determining the security conditions to which the storage, storage and collection of firearms or ammunition are subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic250x.u25	Mr. Chair, I thank the minister for the specific answers. I regret, however, that the Consultative Council on Arms was not consulted, because I think it had much to say about this royal decree being rewritten as a result of this application for annulment. I also know that a new application for annulment is being prepared against the new order, because it would appear that there are still problems for the holders of HFD weapons. Minister, I hear you say there won't be any. I welcome this, but I do not have the same echo of the sector. I'll give them your answer. In this case, I call for appeasement. We know that the relationship between the sector and some members of the administration is not easy. I think we should stop seeing the holders of HFD weapons as potential terrorists. Recent attacks at the Jewish Museum or in the Thalys have not been carried out with such weapons but with weapons of war. There should be no amalgam between the two sectors.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic250x.u26	Mr President, thank you for using this flexible way of working in committee. I wish every committee had. Minister, the number of cannabis plantations has increased enormously in recent years. In 2003, only 35 plantations were discovered, in 2005 172, in 2007 already 466 and in 2012 1 111 plantations. So more and more plantations appear in this country. A few years ago, these plantations were mainly found in the border region, but in the meantime they pop up further from the border, all over the country. In the Netherlands and Great Britain there is a regulatory framework allowing the police to use helicopters equipped with heat cameras to map the plantations. In our country, this is seen as a special detection method that is proactively not allowed, except with the consent of an investigating judge or prosecutor and only when there are clear indications. A few years ago, security expert Brice De Ruyver insisted on changing the law so that proactive detection via heat cameras would be possible. Two years ago, the city administration of Turnhout, under N-VA policy if I am not mistaken, also called on the legislator to provide for this. We are now two years ahead and the problem is increasing. Mr Minister, what measures do you want and can you take to ensure that findings can be systematically used by means of heat cameras from police helicopters outside any investigation or judicial investigation, as indications for and in the light of further investigation into suspicious acts and plantations?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic250x.u27	Mrs Pas, the detection of cannabis plantations can sometimes be facilitated by the use of thermal imaging cameras on board a helicopter that automatically detect the presence of strong heat sources. However, it is by no means a miracle solution. A building has many heat sources that are only suspected in certain circumstances, for example when the building is abandoned. The difficult interpretation of the results of a thermal imaging camera observation means that this single element is not necessarily sufficient to justify a search. However, a thermal imaging camera can be used as part of a criminal investigation. In this case, it is not an observation with a technical tool and therefore there is no use of a special detection method. Indeed, in its judgment of 19 November 2013, the Court of Cassation gave an opinion on the correct legal status of a thermal imaging camera. In this case, the defendant was placed under arrest for remodeling a cannabis plantation. On the basis of complaints from neighborhood residents among others, the air support of the federal police made observations with a thermal imaging camera on two different days. During the last observation an increased heat radiation was detected at a window and the garage gate of a warehouse. On the basis of all these observations, a search was carried out under Article 6a of the Drugs Act in which a cannabis plantation was found. The defence alleged infringement of Articles 47sexies and 56a of the Code of Criminal Procedure and the irregularity of the observation and search. However, the appeal court found that a thermal imaging camera is not a technical device within the meaning of Article 47s, except in the context of a viewing operation. The observation using this tool is therefore not a systematic observation so that no special authorisation was required. The Court of Appeal confirmed the decision of the Court of Appeal.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic250x.u28	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply. It is not, therefore, a question of using it systematically or of amending the legislation accordingly. I had previously expected the argument that is always raised, especially privacy. Now there must be a complaint and clear indications before the heat cameras are deployed. However, the intention is precisely to be able to use them proactively, as in the Netherlands and Great Britain. When you screen an area, you may encounter several things, without having to break down the doors immediately or send the police. It really is purely about observing activity at regular intervals in certain zones from a helicopter with a heat camera if one cannot recognize persons. For that, technology has advanced far enough. If we do not make use of it, as in other countries, I believe that we are not making enough effort to bring to light matters that cannot bear daylight or infrared light. I therefore feel obliged to take a legislative initiative in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic250x.u29	Mr President, Minister, I have a brief question. I hear from a number of labs who contacted me about this, that you're working on a KB that sets the prices for DNA research. These new prices are part of the effort to better control legal costs, an objective which we naturally support. However, I would ask you to pay particular attention so that the sharpness of the price setting does not overstep the pendulum, so that the quality, accuracy and speed of the execution are guaranteed. With regard to this Royal Decree, I have the following questions for you, Minister. How did the pricing come about? How did you determine the rate? How did the sector and, in particular, the university laboratories react to this? Did you consult with them? If so, what was the outcome of this consultation? In addition to tariffs, does the KB include a time limit within which the analysis must be carried out? What sanction is there for non-respect of the time limit set?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic250x.u30	Mrs Van Vaerenbergh, do you mind if I answer in the two national languages? I can translate my lyrics, but then he's gonna sound a little squeamish. No? Current rates and criminal justice fees for DNA analysis are based on calculations made in the early 2000s. In the meantime, the scientific and technological basis for these analyses has evolved further. Appliances have been placed on the market. They were used to automate a large number of laboratory procedures and to perform these analyses in large numbers at the same time. It is therefore necessary to update the tariffs. Currently, DNA analyses in criminal matters are carried out by ten approved laboratories, nine of which are located in Belgium. These laboratories derive only part of their revenue from the carrying out of analyses at the request of the judicial authorities. In 2012, DNA analyses of convicts were outsourced in a specification. Five approved laboratories have submitted a proposal for this specification, which amounts to less than one third of the existing tariff. The order was finally outsourced at a cost of only 29.9 euros + VAT, a reduction of a factor 10 of the current tariff, i.e. 317.17 euros. This showed that the profit margin on this service was high. The new rates were calculated on the basis of real costs compared to the surrounding countries. They take into account direct and indirect costs, in particular personnel costs, housing costs, consumables, the need for European accreditation under the ISO 1702 quality system, depreciation of investments and maximisation of volume effects. The new rates are of the same order of magnitude as those in Luxembourg, but still substantially higher than those in France or Germany. Within the DNA analyses, a distinction can be made between the analyses of the trace material found at the crime scenes and the reference profiles of the victims, suspects and witnesses. 80 % of all DNA analyses relate to spores and continue to be carried out by all approved laboratory reagents. Only 20% are reference languages. They can be efficiently automated on the existing equipment of the NICC. The NICC will carry out these analyses for a minimum amount of EUR 60 instead of EUR 430. This low cost can only be obtained by centralising a sufficient number of volumes of steel. The current quality requirements imposed by our legislation are maintained. They are stricter than those imposed on us by Europe. The National Institute of Forensics and Criminology (INCC) is committed to providing the results for the reference samples within seven working days. In the near future, a cooperation agreement will be concluded with the College of Public Prosecutions and the College of Courts and Courts on practical arrangements such as time limits, quality requirements and transport of samples. If the statutory time limits cannot be met, the investigating judge intends to grant an additional period and/or reduce the costs incurred. University laboratories requested an interview and the interview was held on Thursday, September 17, 2015. On that occasion, they were given the opportunity to make a counter-offer that could represent an economy at least just as large. Their proposal to reduce court fees was examined by the staff of the Justice FPS and compared with the rates of the draft royal decree approved by the Council of Ministers. It appears that the proposal, according to laboratories' own statements, only reduces legal costs by 20%. In addition, it is proposed to reduce the existing threshold for continuing to determine the DNA profile, after quantification, by a factor of 10 to a single cell in the steel. This area of low copy number DNA.. from 1 to 10 cells....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The approved royal decree therefore leaves it to the magistrate to formulate an explicit question for further analysis when he considers it necessary. The detail of the current calculations and an international comparison of prices strengthens me in the confidence that the new rates represent a fair remuneration of expenses. The DNA analysis is criminal in the general interest where the government does not reimburse at commercial rates but at cost. This allowance is also recovered from the convicted person. In the interests of the right-holder, therefore, only those costs that are attributable to the DNA analysis itself are reimbursed. The text of the AR is currently under consideration by the Council of State; in the meantime the dialogue with the operator continues.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic250x.u31	Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive and bilingual reply. Of course, we support the objective of saving on court fees. We also share the view that these DNA analyses are very important. I only hope that the analyses can be carried out in the short term and that quality is monitored. After all, I have been told that the research of the labs goes into several keys. I hope that the NICC will have sufficient capacity to manage the influx of applications.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic250x.u32	Minister, under the previous federal government, another law was passed to combat the statute of limitations on fraud cases and other complex criminal cases. In eight out of ten financial criminal cases, lawyers would dare to abuse procedures such as asking for additional investigative actions to prolong the case. The new law prevents suspects from stretching their case endlessly by asking for an investigation every time. The limitation period shall be suspended each time the suspect requests additional investigative actions. In this way, the limitation period could be extended by one year at a time. Even if the process has already started and further investigations are requested, the limitation period shall be suspended. This is not a bad idea in itself to ensure that one can follow. However, the Constitutional Court has now decided to destroy that law, because it cannot be found that there is no restriction on the number of suspensions of the limitation period of one year each. Even if the prosecutor subpoenaed the suspect and the trial reveals that additional investigations are needed, the Constitutional Court considers that the defendant should not be the victim of such an investigation. The federal government still has some time, until 31 December 2016, to work out a solution to current cases. Minister, what steps will you take to amend the law in line with the criticism of the Constitutional Court? What solution will you work out for the current cases? A procedural law is in principle immediately applicable, but now we are in a bizarre situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic250x.u33	Mr President, Mrs De Wit, as mentioned in your question, the Law of 14 January 2013 introduced two new grounds for the suspension of criminal proceedings for additional investigative acts why the criminal court, on the one hand, in the context of the settlement of justice and, on the other hand, in the context of the substantive investigation, requests or has been decided upon by the criminal court. The legislator thus sought to comply with the findings of the parliamentary committee of inquiry, which found that the existing limitation period was not sufficient in a number of cases to complete the necessary investigation within the limitation period. It also sought to put an end to the delaying manoeuvres of certain suspected and accused persons in financial and tax files of a certain size, so that effective action could be taken against the impunity which the aforementioned persons would enjoy. By judgment of the Court of Justice On 11 June 2015, the Constitutional Court partially annulled that provision. By also granting suspensive effect to the additional investigative acts ordered by the investigating court on its own initiative at the request of a party other than the one suspected at the stage of the administration of justice, the legislator would de facto allow the investigating court to postpone certain investigation operations where there is a risk that its investigation would be terminated. The investigating court was thus given the opportunity, by the destructive provision, to extend the time limit within which it was required to conduct its inquiry on a charge and a charge. The new grounds for suspension shall now be limited to the case in which, in the course of the procedure for the administration of justice, the Board of Appeal is not in a position to regulate the administration of justice as a result of an application for additional investigative measures made by a suspect and not by the civil party. My services have now analysed the judgment. They are working on a repair law to adapt Article 24 of the Prior Title of the Code of Criminal Procedure to the judgment of the Constitutional Court. That repair law will have to enter into force by 1 January 2017, as the Court has maintained the effects of the destructive provision until the entry into force of a new legal provision, by 31 December 2016.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic250x.u34	Mr President, Minister, I thought you were going to announce a potpourri V in order to fix this. I look forward to the solution that you will put to Parliament on this matter. I look forward to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic250x.u35	Minister, it has been a while since I submitted this question. You will remember that in mid-June, five suspects of human trafficking were temporarily released by the Brussels Correctional Court because there was no staff in the security force. The trial could not take place four times, because the defendants did not get to trial because of the problems. The parole board did appeal against the decision of the correctional court, but the AI confirmed the release, albeit against the payment of a bail. It is not the first time that there have been problems with the security force in Brussels. I remember that in 2013 the police had already announced a strike, because she was tired of the attitude of the security corps. The police union even sent an open letter to the then Minister of the Interior. It said: "There's a minority that ruins the working environment. Public services are reduced to a major caricature. There is not enough professionalism and people are annoying themselves. Of course, that's nicely said for policemen. In the corridors there is something else made of it. The security force even gets the name of filth corps. That goes very far, Minister. There were a number of problems back then. People from the security force had official status. If their hours were up, they'd just leave. Then a police patrol had to be picked off the street to take over the duties. There were a lot of complaints from magistrates back then. An audit was also carried out, drawing up some 39 recommendations. The police soon found that too little was actually done with it. You said that the future of the security force is under consideration. In mid-June, the trade unions sent out a very indignant press release following the ongoing negotiations with your cabinet. It stated that the security corps, currently covered by DG EPI, might even be transferred to the police, while you had told the trade unions that that was not a sign of thought. The tasks of the security corps should also be reviewed. This is also stated in the coalition agreement, all with the aim of finding a pragmatic and efficient solution. Mr Minister, can you explain the current problems in the security force in Brussels? Are they due to a lack of staff or rather to the inadequate functioning of the service? What actions have been taken since early 2014, when the police have already raised the alarm about cooperation with the Corps, in order to remedy the situation? Are the problems that were already there in 2013, in the meantime past or continue to drag on? How many of the 39 recommendations made at the time have been implemented? Which ones are still in the pipeline? Which ones might not be implemented? What is the current state of affairs regarding the consultations between the Minister and the trade unions on the future of the security corps? Is the transfer to the police still a reflection? What are the possible other thoughts? What is the state of play regarding the intention in the coalition agreement to review the functions of the security corps?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic250x.u36	Minister, what measures were already taken in 2015 to improve the functioning of the security services in the short-term and long-term justice palaces? What measures are still planned? What are the budgets earmarked for this?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic250x.u37	Minister, I will also go straight to the point, as the preamble has been given by Mrs De Wit. How high is the staff of the security corps assigned to the Courthouse in Brussels filled? Is the staff of the caretaker company called in support already in operation? What missions does it perform? Has the cooperation between the trade unions, the security forces and the police zone been organized and conducted? What are the results of this consultation? What are the options for improving collaboration? It has been said that one of the possible ways to improve the situation is to make the security corps dependent on the Minister of the Interior, your colleague Jan Jambon. What about it? Is this lead serious? Can you tell me how many hearings have been postponed in the French-speaking court of first instance in Brussels since the beginning of 2015, due to the absence of the defendant(s) appearing in custody? How many of these detainees were released due to too many postponements of hearings and thus exceeding the reasonable time frame? What do you think are the causes of this situation and what remedies do you intend to provide?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic250x.u38	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, although I do not entirely agree with all the issues raised, I do not deny that there have been problems in the past, mainly in Brussels. This has to do with the absence of a proper staffing framework, which means that the staffing effectiveness does not correspond to the tasks the security corps is required to perform, on the one hand, and with a poor understanding between the Brussels local police and the federal security corps, on the other. There have been more problems lately, partly due to the increased workload. After all, more sessions, more assists, a major terrorism process, and so on, call on the security force and the police very much. Without even invoking rule 122 of the Rules of the Chamber as to the admissibility of questions seeking statistical information, I would like to recall that the College of Attorneys General cannot provide statistics in connection with oral parliamentary questions given the short response time. The public prosecutor in Brussels has nevertheless told me that, over the last five months, almost 50 incidents are reportedly to be deplored in Brussels, which have seriously disrupted the conduct of the hearings or even caused cases to be handed over to a later hearing. The security corps therefore carries out a difficult but very necessary task. We have taken a number of initiatives to resolve the problems at least in part. As I said earlier, this year there will be 20 additional staff for the security force. Selection and recruitment procedures have been initiated. These people must of course continue to receive the necessary training. In addition, there is the use of an external firm to support the scanner. It started in June, we extended it recently. These are four people assigned to the scanner at the entrance to the courthouse. Recently, I have also obtained temporary support from ten federal police officers for the Justice Palace in Brussels. Finally, there is also close consultation with the local police in Brussels, the mayor's services and the judicial services concerned in order to improve cooperation there, mainly at organisational and operational level. Trade unions are also kept regularly informed of all initiatives taken to address the problem. As I mentioned earlier, I am in favour of a new global approach. From a principle point of view, I can join a single line of command. I'm discussing it with the Minister of the Interior. All the tasks mentioned in these discussions, to be carried out by the security corps or by the police and the place where the new service is to be located, are part of the current consultation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic250x.u39	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. I remember that you are trying to improve the working situation of the security corps and that you are also providing additional staff. Of course, that will solve a lot of things, because it will also remove many of the police's concerns. I also remember that you are still fully engaged in the negotiations and the talks. I won't anticipate it, but I want to follow this up. Especially for the Brussels courthouse, it is very important that this is resolved and clarified, knowing that the security corps has an important task to perform, on the one hand, but also that the functioning of the justice system should be guaranteed, on the other hand. The way things have been here, this has been a particularly regrettable case. However, I have good hope that you will resolve this.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic250x.u40	I thank the Minister for his reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic250x.u41	Minister, I do the same.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic250x.u42	In the meantime, Minister, my question is a little out of date, in the sense that I have found communication from you which dates from last Friday. The 2013 Data Retention Act regulates storage and access to communication data. It is setting up a European directive aimed primarily at combating terrorism and serious crime. Telecom companies must keep records of electronic communications for at least one year. Police and security services may request such information in the context of an investigation. The European Court of Justice has a different view and last year decided to destroy the European directive. Meanwhile, the Constitutional Court also ruled that the law constitutes an unlawful breach of privacy. As a result, there is no legal basis for the storage of that data anymore. In June, you announced in "The Seventh Day" that you would like a creative solution to the problem in the short term. Since the other European countries are suddenly faced with destruction, you also want to find a solution with both domestic and foreign experts and achieve a balance between truth finding and privacy. In the meantime, in many trials, the defense suddenly asked for an acquittal, because the data retention law was destroyed. There is also a great deal of concern in the police and security services, since 90% of judicial investigations now involve telecom operators and their data. Have you been able to consult with experts from the Netherlands and abroad? Has the meeting been concluded? What's the result of that? What creative solution will you work out? In the meantime, I heard from the media last Friday that the Council of Ministers has adopted a new data retention law. We have not yet been able to take note of this, but I understand that the safeguards would have been strengthened and that it is still intended to keep up with the data for a year. Perhaps you could explain that solution? I had another question, Minister. Have there been any acquittals at the moment on the basis of the destroyed legislation? If so, how many are there?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic250x.u43	Mrs De Wit, I can confirm that the draft law on data retention was discussed and approved by the Council of Ministers and that it is currently being submitted to the Council of State. The design retains the principle of mandatory retention by operators of traffic and location data but with more safeguards than in the destroyed law. A differentiation in access to data was introduced. A distinction is made depending on the gravity of the infringement. For example, it will be possible for the most serious infringements to have access to the data throughout the retention period, while this will no longer be possible for minor infringements. For average infringements there will be access to the data for the last six months after approval. Finally, the draft law strengthens protection measures for operators in order to prevent illegal access to data and to better detect access to data. I cannot give you an answer to your third question. I can say that on Monday, during an informal dinner of the Justice Ministers here in Brussels, I again received assurances from the Luxembourg Presidency that the retention of data will be placed on the agenda of the European Council of Justice Ministers from December onwards.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic250x.u44	Thank you, Minister. Now it is looking forward to the meeting of the Justice Commission in which you will come here with the draft data retention law. I think it is really important that we proceed with this as soon as possible. After all, we must not run the risk of being acquitted by the courts in investigations that have worked hard on the basis of a law that has been destroyed. That would once again undermine the faith in the justice system too much. I hope we can work on this as well soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic250x.u45	Minister, at the time I asked many questions in the Committee on Justice to your former colleague, then Minister De Clerck, about the syndical leave to be taken in prisons. This showed an incredible increase in the number of days of seasonal leave on an annual basis in previous years. The figures are not easy to compare because the figures were extracted via SP-Expert and not every prison from the beginning worked with SP-Expert. Even the previous Minister, Mrs Turtelboom, acknowledged in an answer to one of my questions that in prisons where the comparison with SP-Expert was possible, there was clearly an increase in syndical leave. At that time, Mr De Clerck, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, quite literally indicated that the problem had been overcome and that his successors should take the appropriate measures. It is not only the job of the trade union itself to carry out internal checks on the syndical leave, it is also the right, or even the duty, to correct those were also his words of the government in order to carry out and if necessary correct them. The figures rose sharply and a correction had to be made. I do not want to have said that the trade union leave would not be necessary, because it is, but I am obviously concerned about the improper use. There is often a one-hour or two-hour meeting, for which one has an entire day's leave. It has been awarded to those people, but those who are left behind in the workplace are often the victims of this. In concrete terms, it often leads to under-employment in prisons. That is exactly what the trade unions are fighting against. In the previous legislature, Mrs Turtelboom indicated that she would instruct the administration to clarify the application of the rules and procedures relating to collective leave. I assume that the assignment has been completed by now, hence my questions. What are the current figures for the syndical leave within the prison system? How do these figures evolve compared to the previous figures, both in total and per prison? How many full-time equivalents are missing daily on the workplace due to syndical leave, based on the latest figures? What action has already been taken following the report of the administration in the previous legislature which has cleared the rules and procedures for trade union leave? In the meantime, has the Justice Department taken steps to monitor and, if necessary, correct the syndicated engagements in order to prevent improper use? If so, what action has been taken? If not, why not? Finally, will you also take measures in the coming years to curb the abuse of syndicated leave? In other words, do you share the view of your predecessor, Mr De Clerck, that there is a problem with the current use of social leave in prison. I do not want to have said that it is not necessary to grant leave on a trade-union basis. I am only concerned with the abuse that has already been made of it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic250x.u46	Mrs De Wit, I give you the figures for the years 2013 and 2014 per prison, without reading them all, of course. The evolution per prison can be taken from this. A total of 11 161 days in 2013 and 11 093 days in 2014. For 2015, until 31 August, it will be 8 323 days. There's no union breakdown, so I can't provide you with any data on that. Since 2013, we stagnate around 11 100 days of union leave per year. If we assume that there are about 11 100 days of trade union leave per year, this means that there are 59.5 full-time equivalents to trade union leave on an annual basis. For 2015, this figure may be higher due to the negotiations we are conducting on different issues that require a lot of consultation and negotiation. On 27 June 2014, a charter for good practice within DG EPI was agreed between the three representative trade unions and the FPS Justice. I'll give you this charter as well. The charter provides for a biennial evaluation. The next one will be done in the middle of 2016. I have received no signals about a possible abuse of syndical leave and therefore have no reason to believe that there would be such abuse.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic250x.u47	Mr Minister, I am actually pleased with these figures. It is still very much, but apparently there is no increase anymore, whereas it was established in 2011. So things must have changed or been dealt with. I'm happy about that. It is only fair to those Members who do not go to the discussions and who remain on the work floor to take over duties from their fellow Members. I had conversations with a lot of penitentiary officials and I noticed that many of those staff were very concerned about that at the time. I'm glad it didn't go up anymore. I will read that charter with a great deal of attention and I sincerely hope that there will be no more improper use. It is a fact that when one does a lot, a lot has to be discussed. I can therefore understand that there is a syndical leave in that context. There can be no discussion about this.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic250x.u48	Mr President, Minister, the old drug law of the 1920s was amended by the law of 7 February 2014, not long ago. What was adapted to the law? Anyone who cooperates in the preparation of illicit drug trafficking risks a prison sentence of up to 5 years from 20 March and a fine of up to 100 000 euros. With this they wanted to fight the growshops, which succeeded. Furthermore, association is now an aggravating circumstance in the event of infringements of precursors legislation, not only the use of individual substances but also of groups of substances with the same basic structure can be punishable and the public prosecutor can have illegal substances destroyed immediately. You know that if we want to criminalise the use of substances, we need an RB every time. People are naturally inventive and the compositions of banned substances constantly change. For the Justice Department and for the researchers it is always a bit behind the facts. Therefore, it was intended to criminalise working with groups of substances via an RB. In this way, the problem can largely be addressed and one can anticipate the emergence of new products, which is very important. Article 2 (2) of the Act provides that, by a decision adopted after consultation of the Council of Ministers and having obtained the opinion of the Scientific Institute for Public Health, the King may, on the basis of a generic classification, subject substances to the said rules and supervision. However, that requires a KB. We have been gone for a year and a half and that KB is still not here, unless I am mistaken and it has existed since the question was submitted. It is important, however, because without KB we lack an important weapon in our fight against drug trafficking. What is the state of play with regard to the elaboration of the Royal Decree? How do you evaluate the amended drug law after about a year and a half?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic250x.u49	Mr President, Mrs De Wit, as regards your first question, I would like to refer you to Minister De Block, responsible for Public Health and the Federal Agency for Medicines and Health Products. That agency is preparing the KB and it would be in full swing. I can answer your second question regarding the results of the new law of 7 February 2014 as follows. The new law contains several separate elements which need to be looked at differently. A specific evaluation of the application of the law has not yet been carried out, but, as part of its task of law evaluation, the College of Attorneys General is of course following this on a permanent basis. As I said, the generic classification of substances containing psychoactive substances does not yet have any effects, since this provision has not yet been implemented. The implementing decision is in preparation with my colleague responsible for Health. As regards the extension of the criminalisation to preparatory acts for the production, sale, supply or illicit supply of drugs, or for the conversion of plants from which these substances may be drawn, the new judicial procedure is closely monitored. There may be further legislative changes to clarify the penal provisions and broaden their scope. It is still too early to give a final ruling on this. The College of Attorneys-General closely follows the case law on this matter. Finally, there are provisions on the immediate destruction of drugs found. For small quantities, the property of which does not always give rise to prosecution, this is considered to be an extremely useful tool. However, for more weighty files of large cannabis plantations or production labs, the police services show themselves to be asking for more sophisticated guidelines. For technical and security reasons, it is not self-evident that the police services can carry out this task themselves. The drug expertise network of the College of Attorneys General now collects the necessary information from the police and prosecutors to know the difficulties and bottlenecks in the field and, if necessary, to prepare new guidelines in the matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic250x.u50	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I'll be sure to put the question to Minister De Block. After all, we are one and a half years away. In order to deal with the influx of new psychotropic substances in this area, the RB is essential. Now people are chasing the facts. We really need that KB. I'll be sure to go after it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic250x.u51	Mrs Vanheste is absent.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic250x.u52	Mr President, Minister, I know why I have just left the other questioners before, but this is my final question. I am sorry that Mrs Vanheste is absent. After all, she was prepared to postpone this question last week. In the spring of 2015, Panorama sent out a report on legal experts, with many traffic victims testifying about legal experts who would have acted unfairly. They would have twisted, manipulated or minimized reports. I'm saying consciously, because of course I can't judge that. As a result, the victims were granted much less compensation from the judge. There have been a lot of reactions and testimonies to this, which suggest that there is a problem with legal experts and that there is much more often the impression that there is not always the same kind of correct action. In a reaction at the time, you referred to the deontology that the various experts have from their own profession, for example as a doctor or surveyor, and to the possibilities of avenging, visiting the courts or even the possibility for the judge to disregard the expert's advice. You know, however, that this does not happen very often in practice. You might think of a measure whereby a court expert can only be designated by a court if he is on a particular list. That is often the case today. As a result, there would be a mixed check by both the judge and the professional body to which the expert belongs. That law already exists, but still needs to be implemented. From now on, therefore, a judge will designate an expert for the purpose of the expert's independence, so that an expert should no longer be allowed to work for both the Justice and an insurance company. That is often the problem. You announced that you would investigate this further. Mr Minister, I have the following questions. Do you have any idea of the concrete measures you would take to counter potential biased court experts? What guarantees will victims receive that a court expert is also effectively independent and does not work for or work for a counterparty? I think that is very important, because that is a real pain in practice. When will these measures and the additional guarantees you are developing be implemented?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic250x.u53	First of all, as Minister of Justice, I cannot intervene in individual cases and/or files pending before the court or where the judge has delivered a judgment. The current cases, reported in the press, are files where the expert was appointed by the judge by judgment. When there are structural problems with this appointment, it is up to the Supreme Court of Justice to examine these structural problems. The complaints I have received so far have been brought to the High Council for further investigation. Three slopes are currently being worked out with regard to measures to counter biased court experts. A first run is the modification of the Judicial Code. One possibility under consideration is the introduction of a reporting obligation whereby the appointed expert must explicitly indicate which non-judicial bodies he is working for when accepting his assignment. For example, the appointmenting magistrate may check whether there is a conflict of interest and, where appropriate, avenge the expert. A second track consists of the creation of a deontological code which, in implementation of the Law of 10 April 2014 amending several provisions with a view to establishing a national register of legal experts and establishing a national register of sworn translators, interpreters and translators, should be drawn up through a KB. A first draft of KB on a deontological code is before the working group within the FPS Justice which prepared the implementation of the aforementioned law. This code of conduct, which applies to all legal experts and not only to medical judicial experts, includes the principles of independence and impartiality. This second track should be completed by amending the law of 10 April 2014 and by organising a more extensive follow-up to complaints. The law provides that the Minister of Justice may, on a proposal from the President of the Court of First Instance or on a proposal from the Procurator of the King and after having taken note of the observations made by the person concerned, temporarily or definitively remove a judicial expert from the national register of experts by means of a reasoned decision. The possibility must be built into this that I, as a minister, can also respond if a complaint about a judicial expert is made to my services and not merely on a proposal from the President of the Court of First Instance or the Prosecutor of the King. In addition, it is my intention to achieve a genuine quality review of the legal experts and the sworn translators, interpreters and translators who wish to be included in the national register so that, as provided for in the law of 10 April 2014, the appointed magistrate who is required to appoint an expert from the register has the assurance that the court experts from the national register are qualitatively and effectively independent and impartial. However, the law of 10 April 1014 should be amended to allow for a more extensive review. Before the entry into force of those measures, the law provides that it will enter into force by 1 December 2016.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic250x.u54	Thank you for the answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic250x.u55	Mr President, Minister, telephone is important in a prison so that prisoners can have contact with the outside world. The telephone charges are of course also important. The Federal Ombudsman's annual report shows that these rates are a problem. You have recently referred to the fact that you were negotiating telephone charges. What is the state of play, specifically on the situation of telephones in the prisons themselves? Even if there is no full agreement, can telephone charges be changed as well today? Could you please explain the charging in the new prisons?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic250x.u56	Mr President, Mrs Becq, my administration, which is the Directorate-General for Penitentiary Institutions, and I myself am aware of the high price for telecommunications in the Belgian penitentiary facilities. I am regularly questioned about this by the federal ombudsmen, citizens and inmates. To address this problem of excessive telephone charges, a new public contract has been launched to renew the entire telephone system in all establishments. This public contract is currently being submitted for validation and has its administrative follow-up. We also want to move towards a system of cell telephony. DG EPI therefore concluded an agreement with the Directorate-General for Buildings on the financing of cabling works up to cell. Within a period of three years, cabling works will be carried out, giving priority to criminal homes, and the detention houses will follow at a later stage. I would like to point out, however, that DG EPI has not been idle in this dossier. Where possible, self-employed, and this concerns the three new prisons, rates have already been reduced twice by 5%. It is not possible to further reduce the rates as otherwise there would be too much difference with the other establishments where this is not possible. After all, the other prisons are still covered by the old contract. In the meantime, there are also further discussions with this provider to obtain other global rates pending a new award. We hope for a quick and constructive attitude here, and after this a clear communication will be spread on the new rates that are valid in all prisons. It remains a priority for us to replace telephony at national level. A reduction in tariffs will certainly be the result but a complete comparison with the existing market tariffs for mobile communications is impossible, as there is and will always be a specific cost for the installation and maintenance of the necessary technical infrastructure within the security context of a prison.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic250x.u57	Mr. Secretary, I understand you're working on it. Especially for existing prisons, this public contract is an important element. Do you have any idea the timing for completing that government contract?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic250x.u58	ASAP.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic250x.u59	That's how we know you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic250x.u60	Mr President, Minister, the question is as follows. Until a while ago, we were able to find the ministerial subpoenas on the FPS Justice website, but they are no longer available. It is, however, a question of sending letters which may have an interest in the implementation of the legal texts and the legal status to which reference has already been made. Prisoners are regularly questioned by prisoners to get information about those rerouting letters. The employees concerned want to understandably limit themselves to the information that is available to the public. Although they themselves may have access to these letters, they are not directly inclined to distribute them. In the past, these letters were to be consulted. The question is therefore whether the disappearance of these letters is due to a misunderstanding. Or is there a purpose behind this? If so, why were these letters removed from the website? Are efforts being made to make these letters available again? Can it be explicitly clarified to prison staff, for example, that they can also communicate those letters? Can a collective letter from the Prisoners be used to clarify these guidelines to the detainees?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic250x.u61	The Ministerial circulars on criminal execution shall be public, except for exceptions such as those relating to certain security processes. This means that any citizen, whether or not detained, can freely consult them and obtain them at his request. A number of circulars are also sent by default to external partners of the Directorate-General EPI, such as the Central Supervisory Board, the College of Attorneys General, the Presidents of the Criminal Courts, the contact points within the legal profession, etc. The principle is the same for the collective letters, although very little is asked for their consultation. We are talking about very specific teachings without the adoption of legal rules. A technical problem is the cause of the current impossibility to consult the ministerial redirects on the website of the FPS Justice. This problem would be resolved in the foreseeable future, and this would allow consultation, as in the past, to take place without any problems.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic250x.u62	Mr Minister, may I put it in my simple terms? In fact, because of a technical problem, they are not available. However, prison staff can also pass on to prisoners when they ask for it unless it is a letter that is not made public for security reasons. Okay.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic250x.u63	Question No 5995 by Mr Philippe Blanchart is transformed into a written question. The same applies to questions No 6419 by Mrs Stéphanie Thoron, No 6535 by Mr Willy Demeyer and my question No 6677.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic250x.u64	Minister, your reply to my written question of 17 September 2015 shows that many complaints of homophobic violence are being dismissed. That would be due, among other things, to the fact that often no unsub is found. Apparently, they are also still dismissed for opportunity reasons despite the fact that a new letter has been in force since 17 June 2013. It was issued under your predecessor Annemie Turtelboom and prohibits dismissal for opportunity reasons. I think it is important to continue to focus on the detection and prosecution of acts of homophobic violence. After all, these are hate crimes that can have a very serious impact on the victims. I therefore fear that the large number of sepots will reduce the willingness of victims to press charges because they feel that nothing will happen to their complaint. A dark number already exists today. That would be very high, but it cannot be made official because the complaints are not made. It is constitutionally stipulated that the Public Prosecutor's Office is independent in the individual investigation and prosecution without prejudice to the right of the competent minister to order the prosecution and to lay down the binding guidelines of criminal law policy, including those of investigation and prosecution policy. You can play a role in this to reduce the high level of dismissal. How do you plan to get the high number of sepots down? Are you planning initiatives to sensitise, for example, the parquets or any other interventions? Is it true that the aforementioned letter forbids a dismissal for opportunity reasons? How then is it that, despite this, a 30% level of dismissal is still recorded for opportunity reasons?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic250x.u65	Mr President, Mrs Lijnen, we must be careful not to draw premature conclusions about the policy being pursued, solely on the basis of the naked figures that the public prosecutor reports. In order to be able to correctly assess the figure of the non-execution in these files, a proper analysis of the files concerned is necessary. It presupposes a more in-depth review which is not available at present. This is also the case with regard to the reported increase in the number of complaints registered with the criminal prosecution service for homophobic offences. Since the recording of the facts pays much more attention to the context in which they were committed and to the motive, it is logical that this should also be reflected in the statistical data. This does not necessarily mean that the problem is on the rise, but that it is better identified and recognised; we can only welcome it. As regards the application of the COL13/2013, a classification decision is not excluded under this Directive but for the approach to discrimination of hate crime, the criminal response requires at least a reference to the applicable rules of conduct. In addition, the criminal response must be weighed against concrete circumstances and established facts. Sensitisation of the judiciary for tackling discrimination and hate crimes in criminal law is a permanent task which must be repeated, as is the case with the other actors involved. Many initiatives have been taken in recent years. As provided for in the circular COL13/2013, the Attorney General of Liège organised this year in Brussels on 24 February a meeting with all the reference magistrates, representatives of the police forces and government institutions involved in the problem, such as the Inter-federal Equal Opportunities Centre, the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men and the Department of Criminal Policy of the FPS Justice. Experience and good practice were then exchanged and proposals for further training and sensitisation of magistrates and police officers were discussed. In its implementation, the IGA will organise a specific day of training in the two national languages on 13 November in respect of discrimination, on which a substitute of the Brussels Office will explain a number of operational means in the fight against cyberhate. A police checklist was drawn up, which will soon be distributed through the reference magistrates and which will make police officers aware of the problems and encourage police areas to designate reference police officers. There is also a list of risk indicators in preparation for magistrates. Finally, a number of magistrates will also be actively involved in the training programme for the judicial interns for 2016, which will also address this issue. You can see that justice attaches great importance to an appropriate response to violence based on discrimination and hatred, whether based on belief or religion, sexual orientation or colour, and that these crimes are in no way tolerated in our society.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic250x.u66	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. It is a very important answer for society. We must not tolerate that kind of hatred. In 2015 and all coming years, it is essential that we set the bar high from all possible sectors, and certainly from the Justice Department, and make it clear where our tolerance is. As far as homophobic violence is concerned, it's a zero tolerance. I thank you for your initiatives and for the forthcoming awareness-raising actions. I understand that there will be a colloquium on this subject on 13 November. That's important. I look forward to it. I'll follow it up with you. We will certainly keep this issue on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic250x.u67	Question No 6646 by Mr Olivier Maingain is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic250x.u68	Mr President, Minister, the latest reform of the state has conferred new powers on the Communities in the context of offences committed by young people. Today, the Wallonia-Brussels Federation has carried out a preliminary draft amendment to the decree of 4 March 1991 which provides for a new organisation of procedures for the supervision and punishment of young offenders. While this decree must guarantee the protection of young people, it is certain that compliance with the rules must also be assumed, particularly in the context of youth courts. If I am well informed, the preliminary draft provides for a new borough structure, preventive councils, the obligation for judges to justify their decision to place them in an open or closed centre, restrictions on confinement or referral to a criminal court. Mr Minister, has a consultation been organised by the Youth Aid Services of the Wallonia-Brussels Federation and the Department of Justice? Have any opinions been sought by the services of the Wallonia-Brussels Federation from the Higher Council of Justice, the Judicial Advisory Council or the youth courts?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic250x.u69	Mr President, Mr Pivin, I am in regular contact with the Minister for Youth Aid and the Houses of Justice of the French Community for all these powers, not only at the level of the Houses of Justice, but also, of course, at the level of youth assistance. For example, we meet at each session of the Interministerial Conference of the Houses of Justice. The Minister for Youth Aid and the Houses of Justice informed me that he had visited the Youth Support District Councils and that he had met with the actors in the sector, including the Union francophone des magistraciers de la jeunesse and the Advocates-General. Consultation with the sector has therefore begun. This consultation must be carried out with the Community Council on Youth Assistance, in accordance with the 1991 Decree of the French Community on Youth Assistance. Finally, the Minister for Youth Aid and the Houses of Justice has not consulted the Supreme Council of Justice since, since the sixth reform of the State, it is no longer a matter for justice, but rather for the Communities.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic250x.u70	Minister, thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic250x.u71	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Rita Bellens' 6728 will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic250x.u72	Mr President, Minister, it is often a technically complex matter to draw up descriptions and inventories in the context of bankruptcy proceedings. A curator appointed by the court may be assisted by a third party, for example by an auctioneer. Article 34 of the bankruptcy law provides that such assistance is to be carried out under the responsibility of the liquidator. The curator who relies on a third party, who has been stressed by the legislator that it is a third party which they consider appropriate, bears the full liability of that third party. The costs of the auctioneer can only be recovered on the property, provided that the appointment has been approved by the judge-supervisor. Although this authorisation is not immediately subject to special formalities, it is best done by means of a petition. The application leaves a trail in the bankruptcy file and has the advantage that it is also clear to third parties that the authorisation was granted to work with a third party to create an inventory as well as to estimate, store and sell the assets. Does the court commissioner have any say in the choice of the appointed auctioneer? When reading the text of the law, it is clear that it is the curator's choice. Article 43 states that it is the curators who appoint someone they consider appropriate. This seems to be obvious, given that it is also the curators who bear the responsibility for those third parties and that it is not the judge-supervisor who bears the responsibility. Of course, Minister, it is recommended that both the curator and the third person who assists him are those who are best suited to the task assigned to them. From the grounds, however, I get signals that in some areas the same auction houses are always marked. Moreover, it is sometimes complained that there is not enough transparency about indicating those auction houses. Mr Minister, is that situation, where the same auction houses would always be designated, known to you? Do you think that certain measures would be necessary to remedy this situation? What measures are needed, if any? Do you see any possibility of achieving greater transparency in the appointment of these auction houses?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic250x.u73	Mr President, Mrs Lijnen, Article 43 of the 1997 bankruptcy law deals with the description of the assets of the bankrupt. The purpose of the provision is to accurately determine the activity of the bankruptcy so that, after liquidation, creditors can be optimally satisfied. Article 43 (3) provides that the liquidator may, with the permission of the Judge-in-Office of the Court, be assisted by the person whom he considers appropriate in drawing up the description of the property and for estimating the property, the material retention of the assets and the sale thereof. The situation where the same auction houses would be systematically designated is unknown to me and my services. What measures could be taken to prevent possible abuses, I would like to stress that the curator's choice of assistance is, in principle, a matter for the curator himself, but that there is always a need for an authorisation from the judge-supervisor. In the court of commerce in Antwerp, for example, there is always consultation between the curator and the judge-supervisor when choosing the appointment of a third party, in accordance with Article 43 (3) of the bankruptcy law. I do not have any data on the situation in the other courts. A working group on my initiative is currently examining a reform of insolvency law. I will ask the working party to look into this matter and to report back to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic250x.u74	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I will continue to follow up on this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic250x.u75	Mr Minister, the government agreement of 9 October 2014 states: "To meet the needs of the majority of the population, the government will promote legal aid insurance for persons who are not entitled to second-line assistance.' A few months later, you stated in De Tijd in the same line that you want to encourage more people to conclude a global legal aid policy. In your February 2015 Justice Plan, you will then for the first time state your interest in compulsory legal aid insurance. There we read: "A compulsory legal aid insurance and a new tax deduction are not mentioned in the government agreement, but are ideas that should not be excluded a priori and deserve attention." Finally, I read in your article in De Morgen this September: "We will eventually have to move towards a form of compulsory legal aid insurance, as it already exists today in Germany. Given that the terms promotion and obligation are used interchangeably in the chronology shown, I have some questions about this. Firstly, is the principle of compulsory legal aid insurance the government's position? Secondly, where is the consultation with the insurance sector and the legal profession? Is it possible to state the situation? What is their view on compulsory legal aid insurance? Thirdly, would it not be appropriate in this case to sit with consumer associations? Are you considering this?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic250x.u76	Mr President, Mrs Uyttersprot, myself and my cabinet have already had numerous contacts with the insurance sector and the legal profession on legal aid insurance. I believe that legal aid insurance should be extended to ensure that access to justice is affordable for all, including for those who do not meet the conditions for claiming second-line legal assistance. It is also in that sense that I read the coalition agreement of 9 October 2014. To achieve this, different solutions are possible. The most far-reaching would be to make legal aid insurance part of all compulsory insurance in our country. If legal certainty is considered to be as important as social security, this is a justifiable position. However, I am aware that such a far-reaching reform cannot yet count on sufficient support to implement it in the short term. Therefore, in the context of the implementation of the government agreement, I plan other reforms to promote legal aid insurance and to ensure that there are sufficient policies on the market that adequately cover the current legal risks and are affordable at the same time. I will make proposals to the government in the shorter term. In order to prepare these reforms, there is, as has been said, consultation with the insurance sector and the legal profession, as well as with all other relevant actors, such as consumer associations.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic250x.u77	Mr President, Minister, as you say, in order to maintain access to justice for all sections of the population, the promotion of such legal aid insurance must certainly be envisaged. The coalition agreement was clear on that. I think this is necessary, too. This kind of insurance has not yet been established. I think that few people have knowledge of that principle, which only exists in the context of BA insurance. So it is certainly prone to promotion. I note that making that insurance compulsory has not yet been discussed. There is probably a justified fear of overconsumption. That'll tell the future. The affordability of the system is also one of the issues to be monitored. I note that you have already consulted the insurance sector and the legal profession. You said that before. You are planning talks with the consumer organizations, which are the representatives of the seekers, the intended target group. I am thinking first and foremost of Test-Achats. This must not be forgotten. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic250x.u78	Question No 6777 by Mr Maingain is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic250x.u79	Minister, a call centre project is currently under consideration in Marche-en-Famenne prison. The director of the prison, Mr. Dethier, said that the aim was to diversify the type of work offered to prisoners, with many advantages for the commercial companies that would hire them. The aim is also to exploit the advantages of the prison environment, the diversity of the languages spoken by prisoners and their presence 24 hours a day in the institution, which would allow prisoners to work at night and for foreign clients. As a first step, this work will be offered to a few inmates. If successful, the experience could be expanded to a larger number and calls could even be made from cell phones. This information does not fail to appeal to me in view of the precarious working conditions (chronic stress, back pain, etc.) and compensation (sub-baremization) in certain call centres in the private sector. Competition is likely to be strong. As we approach the global call centre awareness week (19-25 October), I would therefore like to ask you the following questions. What is the budgetary impact of this project? Have there been calls for tenders? What are the results? How will the security of customers' personal data be guaranteed? It appears that detainees would be paid €5 gross per hour, which will be of interest to companies that thus avoid relocation of certain operations. Is this project not likely to increase competition from private sector companies that also offer this type of service? What about competition from Adapted Worker Enterprises (ETAs) who employ persons with disabilities or disabilities, who would also be able to provide the same telephone services as inmates?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic250x.u80	Mr President, Mr de Lamotte, the detainees are not put to work as part of a public procurement. The Central Prison Work Authority enters into contracts with private contractors in a traditional business relationship. Since the contractor is the customer, there is also no negative budgetary impact for the Régie. It goes without saying that in this case the protection of personal data is guaranteed in the same way as outside the prison. For the rest, I would like to point out that the basic idea and the fact that the putting of prisoners to work is a basis for a useful, constructive and forward-looking prison system. Indeed, an inmate who works is doing a useful job. He is less aggressive, learns a certain discipline of life and is better armed when he leaves prison. This is a winning operation for the inmate, for the prison and for society. The aim is therefore to offer work to more and more prisoners. It is well known that, unfortunately, work is lacking in prison. That is why the Prison Labour Board, which, I would remind you, has a statutory mission and operates in accordance with royal orders, is committed to finding more entrepreneurs who can offer work to more prisoners. A business approach to files is an integral part of this strategy. Prison work has its specific characteristics. It is, I repeat, organized by and under the law. There is therefore no question of competition with other sectors but of a specific activity. However, I would like to point out that the Prison Labour Board takes into account the appropriate workplaces in its business relations with entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic250x.u81	Minister, thank you for your explanation. My main concern is indeed competition from people working in suitable work enterprises. This is a real problem. In this area, a grant is provided to try to put them into employment. The labour market is also difficult in this sector, which raises questions and concerns.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic250x.u82	Question No 54, by Mr De Pasquale 6815 and No. Mr Van Hecke's 6816 amendments were converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic250x.u83	Minister, the Turkish President Erdogan's visit to our country has not gone unnoticed. There were some incidents between the Belgian police and members of the Security of the State on the one hand and the Turkish security services on the other. On their arrival at the airport, no weapon of the Turkish president's security team would have been checked by the airport police. That would be due to the fact that he arrived with a private jet. As a result, the Security of the State had hardly any idea what heavy weapons the security officers had on them. At least this was reported in the media. During the visit there would also have been several discussions between the people of State Security and Erdogan's security team on the division of tasks. There was even a struggle between the two services. Is it true that the security of the state ultimately had no sight of the weapons that came with and were carried by President Erdogan's security people? According to State Security, which tasks were wrongly claimed by Erdogan's security personnel? Were these agreements made with them in advance? How does the preparation for security and cooperation of the various security services normally go on such state visits? We hear the folds are smoothed by now. In what way did that happen? Does this mean that no further action is being taken? Does the Security of the State intend to change its approach to state visits of that caliber, with the aim of avoiding such tensions and incidents in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic250x.u84	Mr Van Hecke, from 4 to 6 October, the security of the State was indeed entrusted with the protection of President Erdogan and his wife during their state visit to our country. A Level 3 threat assessment was delivered by the OCAD. A number of preparatory meetings were held at the crisis centre prior to the visit. Such meetings serve to bring together all relevant Belgian and foreign public authorities in order to make a number of concrete arrangements in the field of operational cooperation and information exchange. Around the table were the Federal Crisis Centre, the Federal Police, the State Security, the Coordination Body for Threat Analysis, the FPS Foreign Affairs Protocol Service and the Brussels Police. On the Turkish side, there were representatives from the embassy and the security services. During these meetings, the Security of the State informed the Turkish Security Service of the way in which the Turkish President and his wife would be protected. It was announced that, in accordance with international standards, a security dispositive around the president would be exercised by the host country, in accordance with Belgian rules and procedures. The operational details were also discussed, such as the division of tasks between the two security services, the number of protection officers and the number of State Security vehicles to be deployed. Even agreements were made on who could open a door of the Turkish President's vehicle at what time. During those meetings, the Turkish delegation logically had the opportunity to formulate requests and to request and obtain additional information. On the arrival of the Turkish President, the agreements made were recalled once again. From that moment on, however, it was clear that the Turkish security service itself wanted to carry out the security dispositive around the Turkish President and did not want to apply the Belgian procedures. This was accompanied by serious push and pull work and Turkish security officers even gave a number of blows to the security officers of the State Security Office and to certain Brussels police officers who were in charge of maintaining public order. The person responsible for the security of the State immediately interviewed the person responsible for the Turkish delegation about this unacceptable behaviour, after which the Turkish delegation apologized. The rest of the visit was followed by compliance with the agreements made and with mutual professional respect. With regard to the further follow-up to the case, I can inform you that the Administrator-General of State Security has sent a letter to the Director-General of the Crisis Centre asking for a joint Belgian response to be addressed to the Turkish authorities. A meeting on this subject is due to take place shortly. Finally, as regards your question concerning weapons carried by a Turkish security officer, the Security of the State as the competent government for the granting of arms clearance permits to foreign security agents on temporary assignment in Belgium was aware of the number of weapons admitted and their licensing modality. This point was also raised during the preparatory meetings. The check in Melsbroek upon arrival and departure of a foreign delegation, including the control of the arms trade, is part of the mission of the Aviation Security Office of Brussels Airport Company and the aviation police.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic250x.u85	Thank you, Minister, for the comprehensive answer. I believe that the security of the State will remember that visit for a while. I put a similar question to your colleague from the Interior, but above all to the police and airport controls aspect. I shall therefore address that aspect to your colleague.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic250x.u86	Joined Questions No 6818 by Mr Stefaan Van Hecke, No 6911 by Mr Philippe Pivin and No 6980 by Mr Philippe Goffin are transformed into written questions. Question No 6823 by Mrs Vanessa Matz and question No 6855 by Mr Eric Massin are postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic250x.u87	Minister, as a result of the reform of the judicial landscape, boroughs are undergoing various reorganizations. In some districts, it is the mobility of magistrates that allows litigants to be heard in a place close to their home. In other boroughs, the subjects are the subject of a divisional gathering. Advocates.be has expressed its support for the mobility of judges specialising in certain types of cases and has communicated this preference to you in a letter. Minister, what do you think of this suggestion? Do you think that the mobility of magistrates is preferable to the assembly of the treatment of certain matters according to the divisions of boroughs? To your knowledge, which boroughs practice the mobility of magistrates? Which boroughs collect the treatment of certain subjects according to divisions? Can these differences be explained by objective factors?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic250x.u88	Mr Goffin, the settlement of cases is a tool to derogate from the rules of territorial jurisdiction when the quality of justice depends on it. Parliamentary work speaks of reasons for specialization, business specificity, realities on the ground or deficiencies. In no case may a gathering of cases affect access to justice and the quality of service rendered to the citizen, which is why article 186 of the Judicial Code provides for three safeguards. One: it provided that the rules governing the allocation of cases must be the subject of a royal decree deliberated in the Council of Ministers in order to confront them with the general interest. Two: it has planned to submit rules for the allocation of cases to the opinion of the Public Prosecutor's Office, the Registry and the Bar of the district concerned. Three: it limited the material that could be collected within a single division. Case allocation rules and mobility rules are complementary tools. The use of one does not exclude the use of the other. On the contrary, the allocation of a specialized subject to a division of a court may result in the mobility of some more specialized magistrates from one division to another. The two forms of mobility, that of magistrates or that of litigants, are necessary for the development of better justice. The essential thing is to keep in mind the different interests involved so that in each case an optimal service is provided to the citizen both in terms of access to justice and in terms of the quality of the decisions rendered. There are, to date, no royal decrees regulating the allocation of cases, but only five decrees in draft form. The projects submitted to me by the presidents of the courts practice both the mobility of judges and the gathering of cases to a certain extent, depending on objective factors such as the presence of a specialized judge in a division or the de facto gathering of certain matters in a division because of its geographical location or its size. The Council of State has just delivered its opinion on these five projects. These opinions must now be analysed in detail before they can draw conclusions on their compatibility with article 186 of the Judicial Code.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic250x.u89	Minister, thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic250x.u90	Minister, the Family Court Act came into force on September 1, 2014. Unfortunately, the first assessment is rather worrying. The judges cry out for help, while the transplants are at the edge of the burn out! This reform, however, was ambitious and expected for 30 years. Ecolo-Groen parliamentarians have worked extensively on this issue with the other political groups. The text is the fruit of this collective work – which is not so common in Parliament. We committed ourselves to the actors concerned to giving them the means to carry out their task properly. Otherwise, there is no point in putting in place mechanisms to help our fellow citizens. It is true that it was before the elections and that the majority changed, just like the minister. One might wonder whether this had an impact on the motivation to operate this instrument. When a family court breaks down, families suffer. If decisions are not made or are inadequate, the consequences can extend over years, both for parents and for children. As it is important for stakeholders to agree to enter into mediation and negotiation processes, they may be frustrated and dissociated from this collective work if their case is not properly addressed. Minister, what is your assessment of this first year of implementation? Is the situation as critical everywhere as it is in the province of Liège, for which I have received catastrophic echoes? What about the different boroughs? Finally, what do you intend to do to respond to these calls for help?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic250x.u91	Mr President, Mrs Gerkens, the Act of 30 July 2013 establishing the Family Court was primarily aimed at bringing together the whole family dispute within the same jurisdiction. Today, only the family court has the power to decide family disputes. A single court is seized of applications relating to the same family, because it is best aware of its situation and its evolution. It is difficult to make an initial detailed assessment of the functioning of the family court after only one year of implementation. The College of Courts and Courts has certainly provided me with an initial set of statistical data on the number of cases brought and decided for the family court for the years 2014-2015, which I would like to make available to you. From these figures and from practice, we can already draw some conclusions. There may be great differences in the handling of cases from one borough to another. However, it is difficult to draw general conclusions. As for the situation of the Liège family court, which you denounce, it is incorrect because it is based on the number of cases on the hearing sheet on the day on which the subject of the article was carried out. This journalist drew conclusions that do not correspond to reality, as confirmed by the president of this court contacted by my administration. There is no question for the judge to devote so little time to family matters, by definition delicate. For the remainder, I invite you to refer to the answer I gave to the questions asked about the Family Court in the Justice Committee of 7 October 2015. I said that it was too early to draw conclusions since, on the one hand, the computer application of the statistics of the College of Courts and Courts still needs to be improved in the future and, on the other hand, it took some time to implement this new jurisdiction at the organisational level. In any case, I have not yet received a request for a legislative amendment relating to the functioning of the family court. It also seems premature to carry out a full evaluation of the functioning of the Family and Youth Court after just one year of operation. Article 273 of the Act of 30 July 2013 provides for an assessment of its application only in the sixth year following its entry into force.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic250x.u92	Minister, I am obviously interested in the figures you have on the number of files, etc. With regard to the differences between the courts, did they intervene with regard to the number of cases and the processing times or the styles of decisions and judgements rendered? [[The Minister replied]] It's in both dimensions! I'll take note of that. Nevertheless, it is challenging. We always go back to these famous tools, this scale; for example, for maintenance claims, it was said that there was a need for a common tool for all courts. Of course, an assessment is premature. At the same time, if there is a real difficulty in the absence of staff, the inability to process files or the length of time required, this assessment can be carried out in the immediate future. Today you are telling me that the situation is not as catastrophic as the one described in everyday life. I will look at the answers given on October 7 and find out more about the real difficulties. Nevertheless, I find it surprising that a press article describes the situation as catastrophic. We don't know how to write an article without information. There is a way of transmitting information, according to which the deduction could qualify the situation as catastrophic or wonderful. So I will ask myself, but I think that an assessment of the means can take place before six years.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic250x.u93	Questions No 6856 by Mr Eric Massin and No 6678 by myself are transformed into written questions. Questions Nos 6950 and 6951 by Mr Jef Van den Bergh and question No 6957 by Mrs Goedele Uyttersprot are transformed into written questions.
