ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u1	We are going back to work. The opinion of CREG is being photocopied. We will therefore receive it in paper format. The other documents arrived electronically. In principle, we will have the documents that have been requested in the coming minutes. We continue to exchange views on the clearance plan. I give the floor to Mrs Lalieux.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u2	Mr President, I am continuing my speech. I have two specific points to address. Minister, have you contacted your colleague the Minister of Health? Indeed, you know that all hospitals must have generators in order to be able to react in case of discharge. However, we know that they are very little tested. In addition, are correctional institutions and JPIs given priority? It would be somewhat annoying for a prison institution to no longer have electricity!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u3	Mr President, Madam Minister, I would like to make a few remarks. First of all, I would like to thank the various speakers. However, as some colleagues have pointed out, various elements have been incorporated into the clearance plan. Rail traffic was discussed. In addition, Ms. Lalieux was questioned about health homes and PJPIs. I hope you will be able to answer our questions, which I thank you in advance. I also have the question of how best to organise consultations with the various actors, in particular the municipalities, even if it is not known whether the problem will actually arise. But I assume that the more precautions you take, the better things will happen if necessary. Finally, I would like to make a comment on the CREG. In the latter's report (page 13), consumption over the last ten winters is described.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u4	What document are you talking about?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u5	From the CREG report.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u6	Do you have it? Is CREG's opinion on the site?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u7	The study of CREG that you mentioned earlier!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u8	I didn't know what document you were talking about.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u9	I should like to point out here that I have not been privileged, but that my colleagues and I have carefully analysed this document. With this clarification, I come back to the subject we are dealing with. I was able to observe that during the winters of 2007-2008 and 2010-2011, 1,500 megawatts more were used than during last winter's peak. On page 32 of the report, CREG makes a simulation by taking as its basis the winter of 2011–12, which it describes as extreme, when it was one of the mildest winters of the past decade. Finally, the last point concerning this analysis, on page 12 is given a table with the minimum temperatures but it is omitted to say that these are average minimum temperatures in winter. It would also be interesting to have the different details, the different consumptions in relation to the degrees of frost that may have occurred, rather than to take minimum temperatures. Minister, what are your comments and views on this? The numbers are good to use, but at some point they must be properly written.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u10	Mr President, Mrs Cassart is free to speak as she wishes. I was asking the minister some questions. This shows how much I did not go into the details of the study. This was only the Minister's statement. If we are to have a debate on the details of the study, then, of course, I would like to see a hearing of the CREG.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u11	We will come back to that later.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u12	Mr President, I have done nothing to overwhelm Mrs Lalieux. I just said that, like her, I wanted to have some information about the hospital world. I am just quoting a few remarks about this study and the CREG. I don't see how Mrs. Lalieux feels about herself here.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u13	Mr President, I found the situation rather strange a moment ago. I thought we were going to have an exchange of views on the exit plan today, but suddenly Mrs Lalieux starts asking all kinds of questions that are going to be on the agenda. I don't know what that's supposed to mean. Either they want to hear everything twice from the Minister and they like to repeat it, or it was a tactic to mow away the grass at Mr Nollet's feet. I don't think that's a good way to work together. Let's work efficiently. We have an exchange of views today on the exit plan, so I shall confine myself to that. Madam Minister, it is good that an evaluation of the exit plan has been carried out. Last year, the exit plan was art and flying. It was pulled from underneath the dust and there was a lot of uncertainty about how those zonings were determined and why certain sites, such as the port of Ghent, were not in it. There was also a lot of uncertainty about train traffic. So an update definitely forced itself on. It is good that we can discuss this evaluation here today and the modified exit plan. Madam Minister, you have already given a very detailed and clear explanation, but I still have a number of practical questions. My first question concerns the rotation system. If I understand correctly, disk 1 will not be switched off. That will only happen in the event of an incident. An order of 8 to 2 has been established. Can it be that a cut-off is announced, but that is still decided not to switch off? I think this is possible, but what is the next disk that will be switched off? Will they take that disc again? For example, if one announces to disable disk 8 but doesn't do it, and a few days later another shutdown is announced, is it disk 8 again or does one switch to disk 7? I have read on the site of the FPS Economy that can be switched off several times on the same day and that there is no rotation. So if you have to switch off multiple times on a particular day, will it always be the same disk that is switched off? It has always been said that there would be only a limited impact, that one would only be switched off for three hours. However, if you switch off several times on one day for a three-hour period, the consequences are greater and you must be able to prepare more. Is that information correct on the website of the FPS Economy? What is the underlying idea of always switching off the same disk if you have to do it several times in a day? What's the advantage of that? You have also sat together with a whole working group to deal with the updating and improvement. It is good that this has been done in consultation with the various authorities, but I would have liked to know whether the priority customers were also listened to. After all, the governor also plays a very important role in this. To what extent have they been consulted? Are they being informed now? The same question also applies to the various local authorities. They, too, have a lot of questions about that exit plan and have made a lot of efforts. How will they be involved in this update? Last year there was also a lot of concern from the agricultural sector. They have a lot of questions and great concerns. To what extent have their concerns been taken into account? Has there been any consultation with them? To what extent has this been met? I have one final point. Information for the various partners is very important, but so is information for the citizens. Last year there was the campaign Off/On. A purely practical question is whether this campaign will be restarted. Several reports and statements have already shown that it looks better this winter and that there is less chance of shutting down. So the question arises as to whether such a campaign is necessary. Of course, this costs a great deal and it is not intended to cause unnecessary concern to people. Hence the question of whether this campaign will be launched or not. It is very important that we now have a modified exit plan. It is good that this has been updated and kept up-to-date. Of course, it's even better that we should never use it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u14	Mr President, speaking at this stage seems difficult, because we are still waiting for the opinion of the CREG, which seems to us to be an extremely important document. In the opinion of the Council of State, which we have just received, I read in point 8: "In its opinion, the CREG points to a number of contradictions and imprecisions. The draft opinion seems to take this into account only very partially. These are essentially more fundamental observations which have not been taken into account or not fully taken into account, such as those relating to the relationship between the discharge plan and the safeguard code, the need to amend also Article 157 of the technical regulation, the formulation of certain definitions, the absence of a reference to the closed distribution network or the absence of a legal basis for connections to the additional priority network. In view of the importance and technicality of certain aspects, it is not for the legislative section of the Council of State to give an answer to each of these points, but these are very important points since the CREG points them out itself." Mr President, I shall make a two-step speech. I will elaborate the more technical questions without having read the opinion of the CREG and then I will supplement them with the opinion of the CREG. For what the Council of State has to say is a matter of great concern to us, and I hope that all the comments made by the CREG, which are not legal but technical, have been followed by the Minister. As far as SNCB is concerned, if I understand correctly, when you first take off, you touch Zone 8 and, in that context, the trains run in the morning as well as in the evening. If I've read the slides well, even if we have to take off in the morning and in the evening, it's still the same area, it's considered to be a single unit. Trains run well morning and evening in the first stage. Let's imagine a month goes by, without the need to remove the next area. Let's do another month later and imagine that a discharge is necessary one night. People leave by train in the morning and, in the evening, we are no longer in zone 8 and we arrive in zone 7: how do people leave by train in the morning return home in the evening? Second question of a practical nature. At this stage, citizens have access to street names in order to determine whether their street is in a particular slice. As indicated, however, some streets are affected by different blocks. How can a citizen who finds himself in this kind of situation know whether or not his house is affected by a particular part of the discharge? A few months ago, I suggested that a site, regardless of whether it is a distribution system operator (DSO), a transmission system operator (TSO) or a FPS, could inform the citizen. A site that allows the latter to encode his address so that he knows what slice of release concerns him. For now, research is only possible through the name of the street. If the latter is spread over several tranches, it becomes difficult for the citizen to know which tranche it depends on and whether it is likely to be released in the first or second or third tranche. Is this site accessible or under construction? Can the citizen individually inquire about the location of his or her place of residence, not according to the name of his or her street but to the specific address? I am now referring to debates held a few months ago in committee, in which you referred to the idea that, for the winter that is at our doorstep, you would be working with a revision of the plan – which you are presenting to us today – but that for the following winters you were considering, at the time, an even deeper revision of the scheme. Is this still your job hypothesis? Or do you think, if with this one everything works well and if the tests are conclusive, no longer change the model; that this model is definitive, unless problem, with obviously evaluations? Or is this model still provisional? In your previous interventions, you said you were going to manage the emergency and prepare a new model for next winter, but for the following winters, the model would be more structural. I would also like to return to a debate we had at the time, in connection with the following winters. All in all, even if there are more slices than in the past, some are concerned and others are not directly concerned. You answered that everyone has to mobilize, which is true. Through the Off/On campaign, everyone must mobilize to reduce their consumption. Nevertheless, at the time, we had the idea of having more than eight slices, of going to the end of the reasoning so that, in rotation, everyone would feel and be at a moment directly concerned. What are your thoughts on this? Is this part of your thinking about the following winters? Since we work in 5%, will there be a total of 20 slices to reach 100% or will we never work in 20 slices? Have you considered organising a life-size test in one of the areas or slices? I want to hear your answer on this. I also asked you, a few months ago, about the revival of the Off/On campaign. I know that according to your statements today, there will be no problem, but nevertheless, at the time, you committed yourself to relaunching the Off/On campaign. What about today? In this context, will this information always be communicated via a daily newscast during the weather? We would like to be informed about the Off/On campaign and its various variations, including this daily newscast. We have already discussed, with my colleague Mrs Lalieux, the distribution within the Brabant and Brussels. Perhaps you were able to confirm the calculations, certainly too fast, that I presented. Do you have any further details to give here at the beginning of the afternoon? I would now like to highlight the issues of transparency of assumptions and statistical formulae. I intend to develop these subjects in my oral questions, as the order of business provides. Pending the opinion of the CREG, I come to more general considerations. You will certainly remember that our discussions on this new release plan are already a few months old. At the time, in January and February of this year, I asked you and you were committed to filing a new release plan in May. The press clippings attest to this. The Evening announced: "A new release plan in May". Then your commitment was postponed until July or at least before September. Our last debate in committee was in June. Your answer to point 08.07 of the report – I would like to thank the services – stated that the plan would be there before September. In September, you publicly informed about the existence of this plan. It is October 8 and finally we are talking about it! But it's very late. Beyond the fact that you had committed yourself for the month of May, it is too late for a series of actors. I would like to read out what an important actor in this area has said. This is the FEBEG which says that "the delivery of this plan was done in pain for all the operators (of gsm). It's been a year since the sector turned over the Energy firm to get its attention. We've been talking in a vacuum for a long time. The problem is that the work really started very late." It's also my feeling. Fortunately, the reading of figures is better, but nevertheless, I wanted to raise this important delay.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u15	The opinion of the CREG has been delivered to us. I had the opportunity to go through it quickly and to see that we only have odd pages. Nevertheless, I come to one of the concluding pages, because we lack one: "At the end of its analysis, the CREG considers that the draft decrees should be thoroughly revised from an editorial point of view as well as from a legal point of view in the light of the principles of legislative technique." She added: "Special attention should be paid to the consistency of the concepts used in the draft decrees, such as those of 'client', 'network user', 'consumer', 'penury', 'risk of shortage', 'emergency situation'". Secondly, "a clear distinction should be drawn between the safeguard code and the clearance plan and, consequently, Article 157 of the technical regulation should be reviewed". To my knowledge, you do not do so, because the text that was transmitted to us yesterday does not include such an amendment. Similarly, the opinion states that you have not revised the structure of Article 312 of the Regulation or point 1.1.1 of the Ministerial Order of 3 June 2005. I haven't checked yet. The CREG also notes: "All assumptions of reduction of discharge or priority recharge should be considered, at least in principle, in the technical regulation. The ministerial decree cannot add such assumptions to what is provided for in the technical regulation." However, to my knowledge, you have not changed it either. "The existence of the strategic reserve should be taken into account in the various measures possible in the event of a risk of shortage or shortage. In addition, the draft should either establish priority rules in the type of measure to be adopted or generally require compliance with the principle of proportionality in the choice of measures to be taken." This is the conclusion of the opinion of the CREG that we have just received – at least the odd pages. "The project should be adapted on the basis of the consideration that the discharge is a federal jurisdiction." I assume that the next page of the conclusions of the opinion of the CREG is just as critical. Minister, with such an opinion and such a reminder by the Council of State of the importance of the opinion of the CREG, how can you come before us without fundamentally changing the text of the Order?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u16	Mr Nollet, we have reacted to all these remarks, which we have mostly incorporated. There is a booklet, which I will be happy to convey to you since you will probably ask me for a copy of it, in which we respond to these proposals made by the CREG. You can see the balance between what has been integrated and what has not. But most of the comments have been incorporated.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u17	It is difficult to work as we do. We have this useful exchange of views on the relief plan. We had the royal decree yesterday. We have the opinion of the Council of State at 2:23 p.m. and the opinion of the CREG which is distributed in session. When we read the opinion of the CREG without having the ministerial order, how can we know what has been integrated?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u18	I do not object to our functioning the next time: I ask you what documents you wish to receive, you let me know, I send them to you in time enough for you to get in touch with them, and then we can have a constructive debate. If you think that there is too much information in the current debate, then we can go deeper. I'm at your disposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u19	In my personal capacity, on Tuesday, I asked for the royal decree and the ministerial decree to have something to do with it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u20	Mr President, I hear what the minister is saying. I look forward to seeing this additional document, which is the comparison table. Minister, I'm going back to the chronology. You have a draft amendment to the royal decree. You send it for advice to CREG, which is carbonizing it. I have only read one of the two pages of the conclusions, but I assume that the second does not correct what the first one says. I haven't officially got the second one yet. After that, you send a text to the Council of State, which must incorporate the changes you make following the opinion of the CREG. However, the Council of State says that you have not changed the text according to the comments of the CREG. There is therefore one final hypothesis, that you have changed your text following the opinion of the Council of State. We can't say that because we don't have the pre and post versions, even if you promise us a comparison document. We will therefore have the three columns: the preliminary draft, the draft following the opinion of the CREG and the draft following the opinion of the Council of State. For the time being, between the text that has been sent to CREG and the text that has been sent to the Council of State, there are no necessary developments. The Conseil d'État rightly reports to him. We will therefore wait for this comparison table. Admit that the methodological question is entirely relevant, especially since we have just learned that the President asked you for the documents two days ago and that you are only distributing them today in session!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u21	Mr Nollet, from the moment your president asked for something, he got it. He just recalled: the documents were requested on Tuesday and it is Thursday. Next time, I suggest that you work with the chairman of this committee, asking for you, perhaps a week in advance, or a little more, a list of the documents you want, so that you can get to know them. I would like to transmit all these documents. Thus, you will at least have the opportunity to compare the evolution of the texts from a certain perspective, knowing well that you do not always follow 100% – and besides in the name of what? You have also done so – the notices or proposed amendments that are made. I am not acting alone in this context. You know that very well. There are multiple speakers. In particular, there is the Federal Crisis Centre, which is the responsibility of the Minister of the Interior, who also has his prerogatives. If I present a work because, functionally, I have the competence of the relief plan, you must know that it is the work of a large number of consultations and exchanges with multiple stakeholders who all have their specific demands. It is in this perspective that we must appreciate things.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u22	Minister, we are all aware that there are several stakeholders who express different wishes. That makes perfect sense. In addition, there are several actors and levels in the energy sector. We agree. But in this case, your regulator, who is not an actor among others but the one who has to regulate the whole sector and precisely the interventions of the other actors, tells you that the document that is submitted must be reviewed from top to bottom and goes further by saying that the relief plan should be included as a whole in a decree. Minister, yes or no, do you follow this? You're telling me, "We'll send you a painting to check it out." But I see the final order because you sent it by e-mail yesterday. By the way, thank you. However, I note that, in the final decree, this element requested by the CREG and verified by the Council of State, you did not include it in the final version. So you don't follow what the CREG says. Your text doesn't stand the way! We were able to see it because we received the final texts. We do not yet have the comparison table, but I am already telling you that in the final document you did not take account of these comments on these aspects. I fully agree that you don't have to. With you, it's the same debate every time!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u23	It's not just with me. You know that very well to be present on several other committees. These are opinions and there are reasons which can be put forward and which are deduced in particular from this comparison table which you will certainly enjoy to consult.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u24	Minister, the debate is not about whether to extend Doel 1 and Doel 2's activity for ten years with the political stakes involved, as well as the possible legal remedies. Rather, the question is about the practical organization of everyday life, I would say, which is likely to be undermined because of the enormous financial challenges associated with it - the Office of the Plan had calculated the cost in the event of discharge. The case must be legally concrete. There is no question here of an ideological or political choice.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u25	Mr Nollet, you have just told me that the Council of State had made legal observations while noting that certain elements of the CREG, which intervenes in an area which is not legal, would not have been followed. The royal decree that was signed on 6 October by King Philip and that will be published follows a series of legal and technical opinions in order to achieve the result that you know. You have the right to have your opinion, you can repeat your arguments that the file must be legally concreted because it is called upon to be attacked. I would just like to point out to you that all the legal and technical elements, as well as the choices made by a number of stakeholders according to their prerogatives, have been carefully examined in order to achieve the result that you know. Of course, this result is not right for you. However, the normal course of action for this type of text has been followed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u26	I invite everyone to read carefully the opinion of the CREG and the opinion of the Council of State. As far as I am concerned, I have been flying over them because we have only just received the documents. However, the Council of State and CREG have requested that Article 157 be amended, which has not been done. Not a word, not a comma has been changed. Admit that there is a problem at this level. You said that there was a lack of reference to closed distribution networks. You have not taken any action in this regard. I could read you the list of remarks as it is in the document, which I will abstain from in order not to waste time. But let me tell you, Madam Minister, that all those who will examine in detail the opinion of the CREG will understand that your text is not legal in nature, which is unfortunate. So far, you have not provided any evidence of the matters referred to by the Council of State, following the advice of the CREG. But perhaps we will have an opportunity to look at the tables earlier. Be aware, in any case, that I have not yet been able to take note of the Council's opinion in its entirety and that I will therefore most likely come back to certain points later. Mr. President, I'm waiting for the paintings.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u27	It's in progress.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u28	Mr President, I should like to point out that the picture has yet to come, that I have not yet received the Royal Order, and we have received only half an opinion from CREG. Minister, could you please tell me how you ensured that the reality of the ground was taken into account? Who have you consulted in this context? With regard to the release plan, is there a legal basis for sensitive customers? What happens if the TSO or DSO fails to comply with the provisions on sensitive customers, if there is no legal basis? Where is this legal or regulatory basis, if any? Could we have it? If there is a spike, are there any sanctions for non-compliance with this project? General data by province and by band were discussed earlier. Have you conducted the analysis with priority and sensitive Type 1 customers without these same customers and without cities with more than 50,000 inhabitants? What distribution has been made? Can you give us the numerical results of these exercises? Are there data by mail for all DSOs, by province, block, and peak power, and by street? There are streets that are long and some of which are in one slice and the other in another slice. The citizen has the right to know where he or she is. Has a standard procedure been put in place for all DSOs? So, does each DSO have a procedure or is there a standard procedure for priority and sensitive clients, type 1 and 2? Fourth question: your collaborator referred to the number 112 accessible in an unloaded area. Is this the case everywhere, all over the country? And will it already be operational this winter 2015-2016 everywhere and for all users? I would like your confirmation on this. I have two more questions. There was a problem with the Mons provincial government. Is this solution resolved? I imagine that provincial governments or governors are indeed the managers of the plan. Will they indeed be relieved? Furthermore, in large centres, what is the rule applied? It is said that the centres of cities with more than 50,000 inhabitants will not be relieved, but how do we do it? We take a central point and we do a population survey? Is it done in slices and in what way? I take the example of the city of Liège. It is a city of 195,000 inhabitants. Will the city not be relieved or will there be partial relief? How will geographical areas be determined in this context? To go back to the method of work, Mr. Chairman, it is difficult to work on an opinion from the CREG, dated July 6, which is received in session. Then the ministerial decrees arrive and the debate is twice. Situations are a little anachronistic. From then on, I really insist on transparency, it never killed anyone. It would be desirable for us to have these documents. They have been claimed in other committees for other ministers and I would have liked the transfer of documents to be organized in a relevant way.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u29	I recognize that distribution in session is not the most effective method. Do other groups still wish to intervene? No. Minister, your reactions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u30	Mr President, I will answer the questions that have been asked by trying not to repeat what I said earlier. For technical aspects, I will return the floor to my colleague. Mr Wollants, on monitoring and the introduction of decentralised production at the Dutch-speaking level, I shall pass the floor to Mr Compere. On the other hand, for the communication to the municipalities and governors, I can tell you that - this is part of the response to the deadline for drawing up this new relief plan - this communication has been widely disseminated. It started with the governors, who are, of course, at the top of the hierarchy of transmission, communication and exchanges in the event of the implementation of this plan, who are then responsible for communicating to the communes, through the regions, who were present at the concertation work and who, on 16 September, could not vote in the body of the concertation committee. Such a communication was also made. Mrs Lalieux, I understand your arguments, although I do not agree with the consequences that you draw from them, how similar beginnings can give different conclusions. The unavailability of Doel 3-Tihange 2, the sabotage of Doel 4 brought out a plan of relief almost from oblivion, because it had been established at the time of the vote of the law of exit from nuclear power. For you, "this plan exists to respond to the fallibility of nuclear power and this government is embarking on nuclear power". But it is also because there is a risk of shortage of course. This fallibility goes hand in hand with a risk of shortage that has not calmed down, and the means of production that we have at our disposal are also the means of generating electricity through nuclear power. The government agreement provides for this, and we have passed this legislation, I would remind you. With respect to the risk of shortage that has been poorly assessed by Elia, or the CREG study dated September 10, 2015, which shows that the volumes calculated by Elia for the winter of 2014-15 – since CREG is doing the ex-post study – would have been poorly calibrated, I propose that we refer the subject to the question-and-answer session earlier because there are a number of stakeholders who are asking the same question. I thank you for saying that the work was very important as it was done as early as January by the services and in the framework of the consultation. You can see that this work kept us going until after May, but it is clear that the implementation took place during the holidays and allowed us to start working and communicating with the governors on 2 September. I'd like you to share with me the opinion of the FEBEG, but some feel it's too late. You may know that this is not at all what I have heard in the head of governors, who are still the first to be involved in this plan, which is rather a contingency plan, a crisis plan. For them, the work has come at an opportune time. They were able to communicate immediately with the communal territories that are under their responsibility for the implementation of the innovations introduced by this plan. In the press, we intervene just after the Regions have agreed. I work very actively with them and I found it elegant and normal to communicate only after hearing their opinion. Moreover, this opinion was given very quickly since the Flemish Region, within the Conciliation Committee, first expressed its agreement. Then, the Walloon Region gave its agreement through Paul Magnette and finally, the Brussels Region asked for some clarification but it agreed. Mrs Fremault asked me if we were going to relaunch the Off/On campaign and she also wanted to have information on a few posts that concerned Brussels, technical information. That's what was said. Finally, the debate was extremely rapid. I was therefore able to communicate immediately afterwards on the release plan and the novelties that he introduced. The Walloon regional expert group that has been set up is in interaction with us. We were warned very early and we work closely with them. If you, a governor, a municipal official or others, have any questions, questions or suggestions – I give a global answer – this plan is not fixed. This is a constantly changing work; certainly not until the proliferation of small slices. I say it and I will respond more precisely to Mr. Nollet. It is an ever-changing work, it is a common work that must serve a territory and meet our international obligations in this field imposed by all European regulators. You will see that this has some implications on how to use slices. I'll tell you later. As far as emergency generators are concerned, I will give the floor to my collaborator, as well as to the penitentiary institutions and the IPPJs. That was for Mrs. Lalieux. I think I've gone around, subject to what will be completed. Ms Cassart referred to pages 12 and 13 of the report of 10 September 2015, which is part of our debate on volume evaluation issues. We'll see about that later. I would like to thank Mrs Dierick and Mrs Cassart, who, like Mrs Lalieux, welcome the important work that has been done and the preparation that has been made for this new relief plan, when, for reasons that have been pointed out directly by Mrs Lalieux, the past, this plan was taken out because it felt that we might have to use it. Here, we really took the time to think. I gave the starting instructions at the end of December 2014, the work started in January and closed during the holidays. It's a very large work that ends. I thank you, in any case, for your support in this regard, and I would like to share it with all the speakers to tell them that this work has been seen and accepted for what it is, that is, valuable, methodical and full of consultation. On the first slice, there is no discharge. We must maintain it because it is part of our international obligations. It's automatic. A discharge may be announced and not take place. You asked the same question as Mr. Nollet. It takes a month between the two dates; you put it one day. The answer is the same: our international obligations oblige us to move to the other tranche. So, actually, we always start with band 8. From winter to winter, logic continues. If we stopped in the previous winter, we would return to the same 8 part the following winter. But in the same winter, regardless of the time interval, except for the same day – a day constituting a unit – we pass to the other slice. Have priority clients been consulted? There was also a question about sensitive customers, etc. My colleague will respond, as well as in the agricultural sector. You know what's going on with the governors and the communes. The release plan was made in intense collaboration with the governors and the Minister of the Interior Jan Jambon through the Federal Crisis Centre. Some questions related to the Off/On campaign. This campaign, launched last year, cost quite a lot of money because we believed, in this state of unpreparedness that was raised, that last winter we were really going to have to use this plan. It had been initiated by the previous government. At our installation, we had to get to know him. You knew him better than we did, since you had debated him in the summer, starting the commissions early enough. You knew the faults and I immediately identified them as such. At the moment, we see things differently. It is considered that the Off/One campaign must, first and foremost, be maintained, without, however, reviving it with the means used. It is still present on the SPF Economie website. It must be seen as an incentive for the energy economy, as a citizen incentive for demand management. This has worked well, and I want to point out that Elia's assessment, which we will return to. We owe this result to the intensity of the Off/On campaign: every day we saw the green slider appear – which will not happen anymore – indicating that there was no risk of discharge. This cursor has remained green throughout the winter; hence the whole debate on volumes. But I believe, and Elia and the speakers agree, that we must continue to encourage good practice. Finally, the best energy is the energy that is not consumed. To something bad is good, and a positive effect of this "rescue" campaign, as part of a plan that we thought we should use, was the adaptation of our behaviors through this repetition. Although in the long run some may have expressed that we could have imagined in advance that we would not have to use it, we might have to use this plan. We don't rewrite the past, that's how it happened. Now we have other security, other means of production, we will talk about, which allow us to see things differently and put the plan in its right place, that is, an emergency plan to be used in exceptional crisis situations. At this point, we do not think we should use it, which was said earlier by my colleague. This does not mean, however, that it should not be as perfect as possible. I repeat that if you have suggestions for changes or proposals to make, so much the better, there is nothing against it, since it is in this process that we have worked. I repeat that the opinion of CREG (which you received only the rectos, i.e. half) is apparently not published on the CREG website. Mr President, I insist that next time you give me a list of the documents requested so that we can communicate them in order to allow parliamentarians to see as much as possible the evolution of the text and to be able to compare the different versions of the text. Today, it's more difficult. We operate on the basis of extracts. I have no problem communicating all the elements to you, but of course it may take a little extra notice. Two days, since Tuesday, maybe it was a little quick.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u31	I'm not gonna argue about that. Personally, I do not know all the documents available for debate. The debate on the release plan has been on the agenda for several weeks; the documents are given in advance. I don't have the ability to make a specific list because I don't necessarily know all the documents.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u32	Mr President, since we are here and we have to learn from the past, and we are trying to make the most of it, what is preventing us from scheduling a meeting some time before a committee to draw up the list of documents that parliamentarians want? I am not in the minds of all parliamentarians, nor are you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u33	I am not fully aware of all the documents.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u34	If the president asks you for these documents on Tuesday, it is still materially conceivable that they will be received before Thursday, 1:55 p.m.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u35	The requested documents were sent to the Commission's website.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u36	We received the royal decree yesterday and the colleagues received it at about 4:15 p.m. The draft ministerial order was not delivered and I requested it at the beginning of this morning's sitting.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u37	Mr President, we have forgotten to appoint a rapporteur.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u38	There will be no rapporteur but a report drawn up by the services.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u39	At this stage, we have not yet received the Ministerial Order or the Comparison Table.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u40	The Ministerial Order was transmitted electronically.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u41	You have received the draft ministerial decree, Mr Nollet, and I told you that the Council of State still has to give its opinion on this draft and that, therefore, it remains at the draft stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u42	I am in front of my computer and I have the advice of the Council of State and then an attached file, which is a logo, but no other document.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u43	The appendices do not match what is announced in the email.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u44	I sent an e-mail with the advice of the Council of State and the draft ministerial decree at 1:52 p.m. today to the Committee on the Economy.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u45	Consecutively at your request.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u46	We have only received the opinion of the Council of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u47	Mr. President, I was on the slices. The European Network of Transmission System Operators for Electricity (ENTSO-E) provides that if we have requested a tranche and the discharge does not start the following day or month – i.e. the conditions for a discharge are met again and the decision to use it is taken the previous day – we will change the tranche and take the 7th unless it is a request to implement the discharge plan on the same day or for two consecutive winters. At this stage, DRMs are in the process of drawing up maps that will be available in about 15 days. Each citizen will be able to apply for information on the location of his or her street. As for the in-depth revision in order to multiply the slices, I would like to refine, but have you ever seen the map with the current split into five zones and eight slices? It's already a mosaic! It's obviously complicated. We still need people to get into the dump, or it won't be operational.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u48	The idea is not to refine the maps, but to have a site where a name and address are encoded.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u49	No, but I had passed on to your next question, in which you asked me if we were going to go any further. You gave an example of a larger number of slices. I reply that when you look at the map of Belgium, which is a small country, you already have a mosaic with the five zones and the eight slices. In order to be effective and consistent with our international obligations, we cannot go any further. But we can always think about it. I repeat, this is a constantly evolving plan. As you certainly know, an exercise will take place on November 24 and 25 with all stakeholders. Of course, we will act as if we were going to take off, but we will not take off. It's the slice 8 that's going to be affected. The instructions will be given, but will not be applied. For Brabant and Brussels, my collaborator will answer the question, while for the relaunch of the On/Off campaign, I have already answered. With respect to the time devoted to the development of this new plan, I have already responded by responding to other stakeholders. The booklet containing the replies to the proposals for amendments of the CREG in the framework of the Royal Decree will be sent to you. Mr de Lamotte, with regard to sensitive customers, I told you that my collaborator was going to answer you. You wanted to know what would happen if the DSOs failed to comply with the legal basis for sensitive customers, and if sanctions were foreseen. Similarly, I will ask my staff to answer the test question for sensitive Type 1 priority customers. You are asking if there is a procedure for mail-in data for DRMs. Access for citizens to know where their street is located is being implemented.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u50	Many streets are located in several areas, sometimes up to four areas, and the number is not distinguished. This means that people don't know their area.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u51	My co-worker will answer you on this. You asked me if number 112 will be accessible in the cleared area. My collaborator will answer you at the technical level. I can tell you that a great step has already been taken, which is the result of a work that has not been simple, in collaboration with telecommunications, whose competence is in the hands of another minister. Several departmental offices have worked on this plan. The governors had told me at the beginning of the winter that they had a problem because of uncovered areas and that, if there were unloaded areas in the territory of their province, there would necessarily be people who would no longer be able to prevent relief because they were electro-dependent. It was a great concern for us to start this work, to which we have succeeded and whose technical consequences will be delivered by my collaborator. It was a question of knowing, via the communes, what were the places in the province where emergency services could no longer be called in the event of discharge and thus to monitor the electro-dependent people who are obviously the most fragile. It is an extremely difficult and almost anxious job for the governors that we have managed to achieve together through this progress on telecommunications. You asked about the cities with 50,000 inhabitants. You asked if the Mons Crisis Centre was or was not affected.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u52	I am universal!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u53	That's right. You're not just a Liegeian. Having studied in Liège, I know the pride of the Liegeians for their city. But you've looked elsewhere and Mons isn't being hurt. The Mons Crisis Centre is not relieved, since the governor of the Mons province must act in case of discharge. For the city centres and the way in which we calculate the more than 50,000 inhabitants, knowing well that in Liège, a large agglomeration, certain parts of the city fall into relief, my collaborator will answer you. I shall give him the floor immediately.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u54	Madam Minister, thank you. I won't be long. I start with the hospitals, the IPPJs, etc., which were cited. These are totally different cases. Hospitals are a priority. And, if you want to do a statistic, there may be more hospitals in the north of the country than in the south. I don't know. It's something that doesn't matter. Hospitals are taken into account on the basis of a list drawn up and updated every six months by the Public Health FPS and only the establishments included in this list are given priority status. You're talking about sensitive customers. IPPJs are part of this category. What is it? If we had asked all the mayors of the country whether they had sensitive sites at home, we would have been overwhelmed by the thousands of sites we would have been offered. This was obviously not the way forward. I have already spoken to you about impact studies that have been carried out and that have been carried out in close cooperation between provincial governors, on the one hand, who are the armed arm of the Federal Crisis Centre, and, on the other hand, the Federal Crisis Centre. Not specifically for the relief plan first, but you are quite certain that every governor, like every mayor in fact – since the municipalities have their emergency plan – as well as the Crisis Centre, each has lists. A work was therefore done in these lists to check among the sites which were really problematic. As a result, a list of sensitive, so-called Category 1 clients was established. There is no legal text concerning the subject matter of the release plan, but there are legal texts that exist in the field of emergency planning and crisis management. The Royal Decree of 16 February 2006 provides the basis for action at the Federal Crisis Centre. These lists identify sites on which it is certain that if a discharge (interruption of power supply) occurs, at all times, this will create important problems that need to be addressed immediately. The most classic example is that of demergers. These lists have been communicated to the DSOs who have prepared procedures. As soon as a discharge occurs, immediately thereafter, the DSOs will refuel these sites, because they know that it is necessary to do so immediately. In addition to these sites, for which we are sure they will generate problems, there are others on which we are asking ourselves. Lists list these different sites that will not be recharged automatically. They will be when the authorities that have the management of civil security in hand (bourgmaster, governor, etc.)), will see that there is an imminent serious peril. Immediately, the information will go back to the Federal Crisis Centre, which will forward the training to the DSOs.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u55	Are there any deadlines?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u56	They'll do it as soon as possible. You know our crisis management system. It is not for me to intervene in this chain, which is very detailed. The governor verifies the emergency plans of the communes. Governors' contingency plans are verified by the Federal Crisis Centre. I will certainly not interfere in the transmission of this information. But they're effective people. I believe that the quality of these services can be welcomed. It is an element that must be kept in mind. It is the DRMs that will intervene and feed some sites again or not. Keep in mind, when you talk about sanctions, that DRMs depend on regional power. I don't have any instructions to give a DRM. Only the CWaPE can do so or the Walloon Minister who has the Energy in his powers or the Flemish Minister. Also, far from us the idea of interfering in this sector. We are competent up to 30,000-70,000, although Elia operates between 30,000 and 70,000 as GRTL (local transport system manager). But for the surplus, the GRDs have no instructions to receive from us. The instructions that will be given not to the DSOs but to Elia, who will be responsible for transmitting them to the DSOs, will be subsequently confirmed by an order that the Minister will sign. The decision to use these procedures and feeds is the responsibility of the authorities responsible for these materials and there is nothing changed in this sector. For 112, this is a big step forward. I'm honest, it's not over. The ideal would be that, whatever the event, we can guarantee all citizens normal gsm communications. But that would mean that we are doing an upgrade, that we are bringing the batteries to four hours on all the gsm antennas in the country. This represents tens and tens of millions of euros. This is absolutely impossible! But there's another problem you need to think about. If I want to upgrade on 600 towers, I need 600 building permits. The deadline is five months. Thanks to the excellent collaboration of the federated entities, we were able to obtain circulars which indicated that, if it was to increase the power of the batteries, the competent administration could grant an exemption. We have thus been able to save a lot of time but we must now sort out among those thousands of antennas those which, ideally, will be improved so that by combining the networks of the three operators, we can achieve 100% coverage by spending as little money as possible. This work is still under way. It is completed for zones 8, 7 and 6. We started in the probable order. It's not finished yet for the rest but it's a big step forward and it's a job that's going to evolve. This winter, people will be able to call emergency services if needed. There will even be other possibilities to use the 112 emergency call system for communal agents. I will not go into detail, you will be informed of these measures. The office of Mr. De Croo has devised an intelligent procedure that will allow the agents of the communes to use this 112 network and thus to keep efficient gsm communications in all the communes of the country. As far as the major centres are concerned, you have seen that we are talking about 50,000 inhabitants and that we are not giving any more details. Indeed, there is no rule that allows us to say that we are going to draw a well-defined area by line. No. You know that we have a goal: to stay in instalments around 5%. And that's what we managed to do. It is obvious that if I start shooting at it and put a limit of 100,000 or 150,000 in it, all I'm going to take for Liège is the villages around it that are going to drink. Therefore, it is a great privilege that large cities have to be able to be spared by the plan. On the other hand, if we charge the beast even more, the burgers of the small patelins around them will begin to ask questions. I saw a random question about Liège. We were talking about the autonomous port of Liège. Do those who are not Belgian imagine the autonomous port of Liège? I am not talking about the one that is under construction, but about its previous version, the one that is currently operational. This means that 10 km upstream of Liège and 10 km downstream, this is the autonomous port of Liège since barges have to pay a fee when they dock. This whole area wouldn't be affected. It's impassable, of course. When the Trilogiport is operational, I think it may be interesting to examine the possibilities of treating it as the Liège airport, the port of Ghent, etc. But we're not there. So we used this limit of 50,000 people trying to take into account the importance of large urban centres, but going further was really leaving nothing in rural areas and that could not be done. As far as emergency generators are concerned, they do not represent much in the relief plan. You may hear about this in the discussions that will follow in the context of the revision of the Strategic Reserve Act. For hospitals, I can tell you that a letter is being prepared for the Minister's signature, that she will send it to her public health counterpart to draw her attention to this issue, so that serious tests can be carried out before the winter. For the little story, I watched live a crash in a big Walloon hospital seven or eight months ago. However, this hospital is state-of-the-art and has brand new groups.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u57	I invited Mrs De Block to Tournai and we found that the generators were operational. In other words, we were able to see that the Tournaise hospital fusion was in order at this level, and I hope that is still the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u58	Mr. Chairman, sir, when it came to sensitive buildings, you gave the example of the IPPJ. Indeed, sensitive buildings cannot be determined by ministers. You didn't mention the prison buildings.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u59	I referred earlier to the many speakers who have participated in the multitude of meetings that have taken place since January. Some participants participated on a regular basis, others on an occasional basis depending on the issues addressed. I can tell you that I have had contacts with both the Ministry of Justice and the prison administration, with the courts and courts, with the IPPJs. These establishments are considered sensitive sites. They will not be recharged automatically; they will be recharged according to the needs and signals that will be emitted.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u60	Mr President, first of all I would like to thank the staff member for transmitting the draft ministerial decree at 3:14 p.m. But we haven't yet received the comparison table that we were told about earlier, which allows us to evaluate... What do you call it: the document or the booklet?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u61	(...) If my memory is good, it is during the month of April that we first received a notice from the CREG which pleased us because she gave us her remarks in an informal way so that we could already move forward. And, three or four weeks later, we received the official notice in both languages. We have worked on the basis of this opinion. We have taken into account much of the CREG's suggestions. But, once again, the release plan is much less electricity than civil security. For the most part, the relief plan consists of organizing, putting together the actors in the field of civil security to deal with...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u62	Earlier, the minister referred to the fact that we were going to receive a comparison chart. I'm saying we haven't received it yet.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u63	We've just asked the administration who's going to let us know.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u64	On the other hand, where you're concerned, it's when you say it's a document that dates back several months.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u65	Of course.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u66	What I understood was that we would receive a document explaining why such and such an element of the opinion of the Council of State had not been taken into account. If it dates several months ago, it is not possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u67	No, from CREG. The elements that the Council of State has made...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u68	We will therefore receive a comparison table from the July CREG document.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u69	The official document dates from July. But the formal report was communicated to us several weeks earlier so that we could work and move forward.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u70	It always works the same way. In a lot of cases, we have an informal report that allows us to move forward. Then, the CREG, which issues documents that need to be finalized and translated, communicates an official version. It's nothing strange. I repeat what I said earlier. The opinion of the Council of State, which subsequently intervenes and to which we reply in the text before you, has nothing to do with the opinion of the CREG which took place much earlier and on which we assessed the reasons why we were responding to such a proposal and not to such a proposal. This is the document that we are asking for and that you are going to receive.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u71	Do not say that the opinion of the Council of State has nothing to do with that of the CREG. I quote: "The fundamental observations of the CREG...".
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u72	I didn't say that in the sense that you hear it. I'm just saying that the document you're waiting for has nothing to do with the Council of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u73	And I am telling you that the Council of State states in its opinion that the fundamental observations of CREG have not been taken into account. We'll get the chart and we'll be able to compare it. In addition, the Council of State adds its own remarks to which you did not reply. I read in point 11: "Regulatory power is delegated to a private actor. Sub-delegation to the system operator is inadmissible, not only because it is a delegation to a body without political responsibility, but also because it helps to avoid the formalities prescribed by law." I have not heard any reply in this regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u74	That's article 157.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u75	No, it is point 11, which refers here to Article 312. The Council of State makes other remarks, which I will not all review, but which also require you to explain why you did not follow them. I now turn to the ministerial decree that you have forwarded to us. To return to the question of the timetable, in the preamble to the Ministerial Order we received at 3:00 p.m., it is written: "Before being able to apply the release plan to users of the network by 1 November 2015, the TSO must establish the new safeguard code, notify the new version to the Commission, communicate a new version of the internal procedure, include the new safeguard code". All these prerequisites, i.e. the formalisation and provision of the new procedures, must be transmitted to the DSO at least 30 days before they can be applied correctly. It's October 8th. These elements have not yet been adopted, since the text is still in the Council of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u76	We have time, you know.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u77	No, ma'am! Your own text says it's for November 1st.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u78	Mr. Nollet,...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u79	I can at least finish my sentence, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u80	Mr. Nollet, you have the right to speak as much as you want, but...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u81	Mr. President,...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u82	Can we have this in writing, let us answer you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u83	I propose that Mr Nollet finish his sentence and then, Madam Minister, you reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u84	I see no problem with you interrupting me, minister, but at least let me finish my sentence! Your text of the Ministerial Order says that everything must be ready for November 1 and that it will take at least 30 days before the DSOs can get in motion. That's what your own text says. It's October 8th... we don't have 30 days until November 1st. You may say that the winter will begin later, that the winter will be beautiful and that it will be warm; very well! But you must already correct your own text, it is already in order, this ministerial decree. And I didn't have time to read it in its entirety since we just received it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u85	I shall pass the floor to Mr Compere, who will no doubt be able to answer you. But I would like to ask you, for any other questions, to send them to us in writing and we will send you the answer. We cannot ex abrupto answer your legitimate questions. To be precise, we are waiting for your written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u86	A little while ago, you blamed us for notifying the press about the release plan. But it is not the press that we wanted to inform, it was the governors first. Why? Because governors need to be informed in advance so that they can adapt their provincial plan and allow the mayors to do the same. DRMs also need these elements. And we did not wait until the ministerial decree was "validated" to pass on to them all the elements. For the time being, the ministerial decree of 3 June 2005 still survives, but it is clear that everyone has prepared, at different levels, to apply the new version of the text. I'm talking about the Crisis Centre, Elia, etc. Failure to do so would actually have been a mistake. So we acted as if; we prepared ourselves for the implementation of this decree.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u87	I really hope that we will not have to implement it, in any case during the period when the procedures have not been followed, because it may cause other problems afterwards. I was reporting a problem related to your own writing of your text. The minister said it's not going to ask questions in the sitting. Let us not reverse the roles: we have just received the texts in session – the opinion of the Council of State and the ministerial decree! Madam Minister, I would like to point out things that I can, of course, address at a later stage by putting oral questions. But I think they are part of the debate, especially the debate on the fact that you have arrived too late! We talked this morning about Doel 1 and Doel 2. You'll also be too late! Let us go back on a new basis, as Mr. President suggests! Could you provide us with the documents we requested in advance? We asked for more this morning. That would be a good thing. With regard to this dossier, there are still a lot of questions, issues legally, technically and, I am sure, things that we will discover later with the staff who will analyse the texts and documents that still have to arrive. On this aspect, I know that I have not yet had time to read everything, but I have not seen in the texts of royal decrees, ministerial decrees or other documents any element related to compensation. If we have to implement the relief plan, is there a compensation procedure for companies that will suffer from this situation? It is possible to turn to those responsible for the shortage, mainly nuclear power plants that are shut down when they have committed themselves to being stable suppliers of energy and electricity for the country. Did you plan this compensation?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u88	Madam Minister, thank you and your colleague for the answers. I have two more questions, Mr. Compere. When you look at the Economy FPS site, some streets are spread over four slices, and numbers are not indicated. People are asking themselves the question. I don't think you answered me. Could you complete it? We have received the table of zones and loads, but it is a general picture. In the analysis with priority and sensitive clients or city centres, have several scenarios been quantified for loads, or is it a global standard, a single table, but depending on the release of one or the other? Have different scenarios been mentioned for the graph based on loads and percentages?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u89	Mr Compere, can you answer these technical questions immediately?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u90	About street numbers, the administration's site is not the site that will be most useful to residents in the coming weeks. The DSOs will provide a window on their site where residents will be able to enter their address and will obtain a more accurate result. Again, the federal does not have any instructions to give them, but through their Synergrid association, with which we work closely, they have committed themselves to quickly making this service available to the public, and therefore to their clients. Of course, we want them to do so as soon as possible. The clearer it will be, the better it will be for everyone.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u91	Is there a deadline?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u92	There is no time limit. We ask them to be quick. If you remember, last year we had these documents in the fall as well. This represents an additional workload this year as we have changed the area boundary. They have to do a whole series of computer work, an area in which I am not very competent. As for what you were explaining to me, I did not understand what you meant, but in any case, for the slices, there are not thirty-six hypotheses. We took for all the slices a value, not the peak value, but the maximum value of the slice as most often observed. We took a series of cabins and verified that this series did not exceed 5% significantly. If we had 9.5%, as we saw last year, then we go back and refuel a series of cabins. Here, we focused on staying around 5%.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u93	The calculation is not refined with the areas that are re-edited. If we take an area off, there's an impact that's playing.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u94	No, we don't. If a release takes place for sensitive customers, it will be very limited. You have to tell yourself that this will represent a few cabins. Compared to the area, this will barely reach 5.05 or 5.1%. This is not going to fundamentally change the situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u95	I still have a question about the evolutionary nature of things. The minister talked about the electro-dependent people. I can very well be healthy today and have a health concern tomorrow and be equipped at home. What should we do? Who should we warn? Who's gonna warn who's gonna make me a priority client in this scenario?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u96	This issue has been discussed at length. It is realized that the majority of electro-dependent clients are often at home. We contact home care agencies and we find that only about one third of this patient is affected. The rest is entirely dependent on nurses from the Liberal regime who go to their homes. So it's hard enough to contact these people. There are two methods, but here we come out of our jurisdiction. We pass through the mayors or through trade unions or associations of liberal practitioners who are contacted by the regional crisis centres to try to identify the location of these patients at best and to try to cross-check the means of approaching them so that these lists are communicated to the various mayors. An incident may occur outside of a discharge. For example, if there is a power outage in a village in winter, people are likely to "take the gun to the left" if no one cares about their fate. These lists are transmitted to the civil security authorities, i.e. the mayors.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u97	I confirm that last year, the communes and CPAS were asked to do so, with concern to forget someone. This may be easier to do in rural municipalities than in urban municipalities, but even in rural municipalities, one should not forget someone who would be a little isolated at home with a need for electricity at all times. There is also a responsibility which was a great concern for the Directors-General and others in the communes. This inventory work is requested. There is also the question of responsibility if there is to be a problem. Mr. de Lamotte, were you done?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u98	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u99	Madam Minister, I therefore come back to you because you have been asked a few additional questions. Do you still have any answers to give or reactions to what has been said by each other?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u100	Mr President, you had postponed my question on compensation after the answer to Mr de Lamotte. Perhaps the minister can answer that question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u101	In fact, if some things have been forgotten.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u102	Mr President, Mr Nollet, as regards our international obligations which are reflected in the ENSO-E, namely all European TSOs, there is no special compensation procedure in case. This does not mean that, because it does not exist, it cannot be imagined, but the reasoning is always the same from the moment you are in a situation of unannounced, organized discharge, which comes to the end of a very exceptional process but which is within a regulatory and practically conventional framework. You do have notice. You see the evolution throughout this notice of the situation and you are quite informed because, at the start of the computer window, which will be available to the DSOs immediately, you can know in which slice you are in, etc. In addition, you mention the case of companies that may provide for technical redundancy. Some have already done so. I know a lot about this. They may provide for technical redundancy even outside a discharge procedure, when sudden breakdowns occur on the network at the level of a high-voltage cab. This happens to us all; we now see it very frequently in the Belga dispatches because we are more and more attentive to this problem. There, you always have to prove a mistake. The fundamental question is, first, whether there is a fault. Secondly, if there is damage, it is certain, it must be assessed, but there must be a causal link, which must be established, between that fault and that damage. Now it's getting complicated. Indeed, it seems to me difficult to envisage a process of compensation, when we are in a framework established by law, thus regulating and giving notice. Therefore, the fault seems to me quite random. We'd have to prove it. This is the first step in a reasoning which must then also demonstrate that the fault has produced the damage claimed and claimed. In short, to date there is no standardized process, imaginable, even intellectually, of compensation in this context.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u103	Ladies and gentlemen, I think that we will remain here for today on this exchange of views. However, it has provided some information, even though its transmission has been somewhat anachronistic. We will try to ensure that future meetings are better organized.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u104	Madam Minister, before moving on to the agenda, I had two points related to our order of business. The issue of relief also raises the debate on the security of energy supply in our country. A request was made by Mrs Lalieux to organise a hearing in our committee, in addition to this debate, by CREG, Elia and DG Energy. I asked you if you were in favour of it because your administration is participating in this meeting with our committee. Do you agree to continue the discussion on this matter and do you have an opinion on this point? My second question is more about bills. The proposal is made by a group. This will be discussed in the course of the proceedings. Are you in favour of our committee being able, on the issue of security of supply, to hear from CREG, Elia and DG Energy?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u105	I'll ask them the question. I work with an administration as well as with Elia. The CREG is an independent body. I don't see any inconvenience a priori, but I'll ask them the question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u106	The idea is that today we have a debate on the discharge plan, but the question of supply is a matter which it is logical that this committee should continue to deepen.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u107	That's why I invited them to meet with me – I'll talk about it incessantly – so that the possible problems of methodology, basic assumptions, can be shared among them.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u108	So you are in favour of us inviting them.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u109	We must all remember that the CREG is a parliamentary body.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u110	I agree.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u111	I was just asking the minister's advice, that's all.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u112	Mr President, I would like to recall that we received Elia and DG Energy in July. I plead that we should receive the CREG, because we have not yet heard it. It's up to us.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u113	As long as the minister is present, I would like to ask her for her advice.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u114	We can limit ourselves to CREG.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u115	We'll discuss it later. Minister, I still have one last point. Then you and your collaborators will be released. With regard to the draft laws and resolutions, at the meeting on 14 July we began to debate the motion for a resolution by the Ecolo-Groen Group. Your collaborator, Mr. Aubry, said there would be a written notice in this regard. Apparently, he hasn't been received yet. I'm just pointing it out. It's not for today. Can we have an opinion?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u116	Mr President, without wishing to look up the polemics, I would very much appreciate that written advice from the cabinet would be forthcoming soon. I'm declaring myself. In the meantime, all parliaments have already expressed their views on the methodology of the Energy Pact. Our group has adopted a very pragmatic position not to draw up a resolution on the content of the energy pact, but on the methodology. About a year ago, we introduced it for the first time. The Minister would look at that with an open eye. Today, the Chamber is the only assembly in this country that has not yet taken a position on this matter. So I think it is also in the interest of the Minister. It does not have to be our text, or our text may be substantially amended, but I do believe that it is in everyone's interest to move quickly on this methodology in this committee. I therefore ask that the cabinet take its share of that exercise, as was announced before the summer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u117	Madam Minister, we thank you for the time you have devoted to this committee since this morning. We shall proceed to the order of business before we resume with the oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u118	Mr President, the 2013 report of the Commission on Nuclear Supplies had to be published for more than a year. We received, a little by chance, an email that sent us the link to access this report just prior to the commission meeting. Minister, how do you explain that, in such an important matter, as sensitive in terms of financial issues, the statutory requirement is not respected? Seven to eight billion euros are at stake. When did you initiate an inquiry with the members of the Commission into the situation? As I have just said, since then we have had access to this report. On page 13 of the report, it is stated that "by force of events, the Commission for 2013 could not take place in due course". Can you give us the reasons why this report was not published?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u119	Mr President, between the tabling of my question and the time to ask it, the reports have arrived. Minister, I come immediately to my questions. Do you intend to take steps to ensure that annual reports are properly publicized, given that you are mandated by law to do so? Have you taken steps to enforce the deadlines next time?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u120	Mr President, I am addressing my second question. As foreseen in the 2003 Act, the Commission on Nuclear Supplies has just released its 2014 report. The report recalls, first of all, that since the entry into force of the Royal Decree of 15 November 2013, the composition of the Commission has not been adapted, despite the fact that a draft royal decree confirming the new composition has been transferred. I would like to know when this draft royal decree was transmitted and why it was not followed up. I would also like to have all the guarantees that this Commission is legally composed and able to carry out its important tasks without taking any legal risk despite the absence of this royal decree. A similar question may be raised with regard to the Royal Decree laying down the procedures and operating costs of the Commission. What is the status of the project sent to the supervisory authority many months ago? In addition, the report (pages 13 and 14) refers to the company reviewer's attestation on the discussion of the D/D+E ratio, a financial analysis of the impact of Doel 3 and Tihange 2's potential early shutdown on provisions, a financial analysis of the impact of Doel 1 and Doel 2's extension on provisions, a certification by a company reviewer of the liquidity report. Minister, could you give us a copy of these four documents and provide us with the main elements highlighted in them? Finally, the report refers, on page 14, to a series of recommendations made by the Commission, as well as to a further recommendation made at a later stage. Could you give us a list of all these recommendations and the timetable associated with them? Could you also tell us what happened to the short-term recommendation and provide us with a copy of the related supplementary study that was due for submission by June 30, 2014?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u121	Mr President, honourable Member, the annual report of the Nuclear Supplies Commission must be submitted by the Commission before 1 October of the year following the year in question. The 2013 Annual Report could not, for reasons of service, be published within the time limits laid down in article 8 of the Act of 11 April 2003. Having reported this to me, I reported it in May and again in September. The two annual reports for 2013 and 2014 were approved by the members of the Nuclear Supplies Commission. They were both sent to me in early October 2015. In doing so, the 2014 report was submitted in a timely manner. So you can see that I have taken the necessary steps to ensure that the 2013 annual report, submitted late, and the 2014 report, are available on the Energy Branch website. This is done today. The said reports were transmitted to the Speaker of the House on September 30, 2015. With regard to the two royal decrees to which you referred, following the amendment of the law of 11 April 2003 dated 26 March 2014, published on 26 May 2014, a draft royal decree of appointment was transmitted to me in the first half of 2015. I intend to submit it for government approval as soon as possible. However, this does not prevent the Nuclear Supplies Commission from working legally. The amendment to the Act of 11 April 2003 removed the provisioning company's status as an effective member. It is now a consultative member. The other effective members are always legally represented. A draft royal decree setting out the operating procedures and costs of the Commission for Nuclear Supplies has, without success, been forwarded by DG Energy to several of my predecessors. This project was again transmitted to me by my administration. I'm working on it, but it'll take a little more time to finalize it. It is important to me that the Commission can be in perfect order of business in view of the opinion it will have to formulate in the context of the next re-evaluation of the provisions which will take place in the course of 2016. The constitution of nuclear supplies is a subject to which I give the utmost attention, so that we do not delay an undue burden on future generations when nuclear power plants are stopped, and thus allow nuclear power to be released. With regard to the recommendations made in the third reassessment of the methods used in the provisioning process, it is important to bear in mind that these recommendations should be understood as an iterative process. They are to be carried out for the next re-evaluation in 2016. There is not yet a specific date for the submission of the file. The short-term recommendation was to carry out a further study for the decommissioning part in order to take into account the ten-year extension of Tihange 1's operating life. This study was presented to the members of the Commission at the meeting on 5 May 2014. With regard to the documents transmitted to the Commission in the course of their mission, I must refer you to Article 8, § 2 of the Act of 11 April 2003, which states: "Members and staff of the Secretariat of the Commission des réservations nucléaires shall be subject to professional secrecy and shall not disclose to any person any confidential information known to them by reason of their function with the Commission des réservations nucléaires." So I can't give you a copy of these confidential documents.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u122	Mr President, I can only deplore the delays in the publication of the 2013 report. The reasons for service, in my opinion, do not mean anything. Of course, it is not your responsibility, since it was before you took office, but that a Commission that has to look after the management of EUR 7 billion is not able to publish a report more than a year later is still a real problem. I'm going through this, it's the past. As far as the documents I requested are concerned, the financial analysis of the impact of the early judgment of Doel 3 and Tihange 2 is not confidential. You'll have to pull out this analysis anyway. We'll have to get it anyway. It is the same for the financial analysis of the impact of the extension of Doel 1 and Doel 2. Let the officials be kept silent, I can hear you well. But, in this case, these are "finalised documents", to use your words just now, documents that will be necessary anyway. Each time, we have them for review and planning. These documents exist. I have made a list of them and I ask for a copy of them and I will keep my request. It is not a question of going to the officials: "you must give them to us off", or, what do I know, you yourself because you are a civil servant! Such a document can be requested from the institution. These are not confidential documents. These documents will in any case be copied at a later date. I think it is important that we receive them to see precisely how the impact of prolongation on the one hand and cracks on nuclear supplies on the other. It's a usual calculation. It's not a secret calculation. On the contrary!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u123	Mr Nollet, thank you. I don't think Mrs. Lalieux wishes to reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u124	Ladies and gentlemen, I have a request to make on the order of business. Mrs Lalieux would like to leave us, but before that, she would like to see questions Nos. 5945, 6577 and 6670 put together. Mr Calvo and Mr Nollet, do you agree that this item should be discussed in advance of the agenda? [[Sentiment]] Mr de Lamotte, you also had a question which, on the agenda, precedes this item. Do you agree to give priority to the attached question?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u125	Yes, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u126	Minister, the CREG conducted a very detailed study on June 4, which fundamentally questions some of the calculations and, above all, Elia's working methods. It takes it for its rank almost every page: lack of neutrality and transparency, short-termism, arbitrary reduction of import capacity, outdated and irrelevant 2010 hypothesis, forgotten the asynchronism of peaks with neighbouring countries, considerable deviation from year to year, not taking into account the voluntary reduction of demand up to 1,400 megawatts. It's all over. The CREG rightly points to the absence of Elia's neutrality in this case. I do not quote the excerpt on page 23. And to say that a proper assessment of the problem of adequacy is a prerequisite for any valid political action! " The fact that the production deficit is on the day ahead market means that buying offers will remain unsatisfied at a price of EUR 3 000/MWH. If all the contracted capacity were to be used, which is unlikely in a normal year, the gain could be captured by additional capacity with a market of EUR 4.9 billion per year. It is likely that if market participants shared this analysis, no unit would leave the market for economic reasons and investment projects would be proposed." On several occasions, CREG and many participants in the public consultation stressed that the possible extension of nuclear power beyond 2025 would block any investment decision. Moreover, the CREG determines the final shutdown of Doel 3 and Tihange 2 as an opportunity to quickly adapt the production fleet. We should also note in passing that it once again criticizes the go-and-go between threats of closure and returns to the market. I would therefore like to know what conclusions and follow-up you will bring to the assessment of the need for capacity, which will be included in this landmark study. Will you, for example, set up as soon as possible and, in any case before the winter, an independent counter-expertise of Elias' forecasts? Will you force this organization to be transparent and to publish the assumptions on which the forecasting model is based? Will you, once and for all, dispel the blur around nuclear production in Belgium after 2025? What other lesson do you learn from this chapter? Then, on 29 September, the CREG published a study that you received on 10 September, which again criticises Elia's work in assessing the risk of shortage and lack of transparency. To begin with on this "transparency" aspect and mention only one passage, reference can be made to paragraph 112, which explains that "information on available production capacity is insufficiently transparent for the market: information is disseminated and only runs until the end of 2015.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u127	At the end of August, therefore, a market participant will only be able to see the available production capacity four months in advance. The capacity changes that return to the market are also not included on the Elias website when it comes to a small unit. A history of the available production capacity of all units should therefore be kept up to date. Finally, the data format is perfect." More importantly, CREG states that even under extreme conditions, it would never have been necessary to activate the strategic reserve last winter. But the CREG once again criticizes the lack of reliability and the lack of transparency of Elia's work. It is on this point that we want to hear you first. We would also like to understand the deep reasons that led Elia to unnecessarily inflate the risk of shortages. When we know the impact that this kind of error of assessment can have on the bills of families and citizens, we are entitled to expect precise and complete explanations from you and, especially since you announced on the radio, the very day of the publication of this document, that you will immediately convene the CREG, Elia and DG Energy for an in vivo confrontation within your firm. By the way, I find it a bit special to have to convene this meeting when, as the CREG states in § 92, several consultation meetings have already taken place between the actors and we are entitled to expect them to reach agreement on the technique. I would like to know what emerges from the additional meeting that you convened. When will Elia finally publish the mathematical assumptions and models used? When are you going to seek an inter-university team to carry out a counter-expertise, independent of any market pressure or any stock market game? I came up on Sunday when you said on TV that the CREG method was not acceptable. Why isn't she? Finally, on 29 September, the CREG published a study which you received on 10 September and which strongly criticizes Elia's work on evaluation in a specific way. Following the meeting you held, I would like to know Elia's answer to the remark in § 18. What is the explanation for the 700-800 MW gap? What is Elia's response to the remark in § 80 that the forecasts of the number of hours during which the strategic reserve would be needed next winter are not credible? What is Elia's response to the remark in § 97? How can the 900 MW drop in peak demand result in a reduction of only 600 MW in the strategic reserve? What is Elia's response to the quantified argument claimed by CREG in § 98 of its study? What is Elia's response to the remark in § 102? Why does an increase in import capacity not result in a reduction in the volume of the strategic reserve? What is the explanation for forgetting to take 140 MW into consideration, linked to the return to the market of many units? What are the reasons why Elia does not take into account the secondary and tertiary reserves which represent 800 MW plus 250 MW of the inter-GRT reserve, which is found in § 107? Based on the table summarized in § 106, are you going to reduce the height of the strategic reserve in realistic proportions - 300 MW should be enough if you take your assumptions about Doel's extension? Based on the reasoning developed in § 114 and 115, will you now take into account a "demand management" volume of between 800 and 1000 MW? How long did you allow Elia to publish ex ante an estimate of the impact of the work, as requested by CREG in § 117? How long did you allow Elia to centralize on its website information on both production, demand management and interconnection capacity for various time horizons, as requested by the CREG in § 130 for several years in advance? How long did you allow Elia to formulate a proposal for intraday flow-based market coupling, as requested by CREG in § 132?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u128	Minister, at the end of August, CREG published a study on the security of electricity supply; the regulator's analysis is instructive and must be followed by reforms, which are your responsibility. In the debates on the extension of Doel 1 and 2, I have told you, on many occasions, that your energy policy focused on nuclear production would lead to great difficulties in terms of electricity supply. The regulator also notes that the uncertainties surrounding Doel 3, Tihange 2, Doel 1 and Doel 2 and the prospects for the possible extension of nuclear power beyond 2025 block any investment decision. That is what we have been saying for some time and, for us, it is fundamental. In other words, our great dependence on nuclear energy is one of the main causes of our supply problems and the extension of Doel 1 and Doel 2 will worsen this state of affairs. The CREG also points out that Elia's analysis of short-term production capacity needs is problematic and that longer-term analyses, five to ten years, are indispensable. In fact, the regulator pushed the nail into a new study on September 10. It was cited for the winter of 2014-15. The regulator again contests that Elia's method lacks transparency and results in exaggerated forecasts of hours of activation of the strategic reserve. The CREG asks Elia to carry out a volume assessment in the future in a more transparent manner and for an independent review to be established. It's your responsibility. Madam Minister, I mentioned it on BelRTL's antennas, but I can also repeat it on the RTBF's antennas or in your press release that you yourself wrote, you swept away the criticism of the CREG with a back of your hand. For my part, I expect a competent minister to respond in a much more detailed manner to an independent federal regulator. This really creates a difficult situation. Minister, what is your position on the CREG's recommendations for improving Elia's short-term needs analysis? Do you agree that an independent body composed in particular of CREG, DG Energy and academic personalities should be set up to carry out an evaluation of the methodology used by Elia? We gave you all the consequences on the price of electricity tomorrow. Do you consider it necessary to define conditions under which a unit participating in the reserve can return to the market? What is your position on the recommendation of CREG to reduce the imbalance rate (currently €4,500/MWh) for production units off strategic reserve? How are you going to better involve demand management in the Strategic Reserve? What measures are you going to take to prevent producers from announcing closures and then returning to their decision without having to justify themselves to anyone? For example, Electrabel's TGV power plants are once in, once out. These very technical issues, which deserve a real debate, also deserve hearings by Elia, CREG and DG Energy.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u129	Madam Minister, I will be complementary to the questions put by my fellow Members and will therefore be brief. My questions mainly focus on the CREG study on security of supply. You have already commented extensively on this study in a number of newspapers and studios. This study makes an important finding that differs from your own analyses and Elijah's analyses of our security of supply. I would remind you, moreover, that the CREG report highlights the uncertainty about the core exit and its blocking nature for future investment. More specifically, in the short term, the energy regulator clearly sees more security of supply guarantees in the past and in the coming winter than is the case in Elia's analyses. I am therefore sorry that we have only been able to look at this study now, quite recently, especially since it was delivered to you in mid-June, at a time when Parliament was still in the process of discussing the first legal translation of the extension of the life span of Objective 1 and Objective 2. During that discussion, you had the CREG study in your hands for more than two weeks. Allow me to say that you did not give Parliament all the information it needed. Madam Secretary, that is why I have the following questions. Why didn't you share the CREG study with Parliament earlier? Why your rather frank and remarkably assertive criticism of the CREG and its assessments of security of supply? Is it indeed your mission as Minister of Energy to take such an explicit side with Elijah? Indeed, Elia is already a market player with direct or indirect interests in the functioning of the energy market, for example with regard to the operation of the strategic reserve. How do you wish to better organise security of supply monitoring in the future? I do not think it is good for anyone, not even for you as Minister responsible, that we are faced with a different study every two to three months and that players with a key position in the whole debate contradict each other. In my opinion, the time is right to put a little more order in that study work and also to create partners, bringing people around the table to develop common studies rather than constantly contradicting each other and thus talking to the public in needless feelings of uncertainty and fear. I look forward to your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u130	Minister, if I may, I will ask my question from the perch. The situation has been drawn up by previous speakers. You have stated in the media in recent days that you have not been able to clearly explain your thinking. I now expect you to provide us with your analysis of the actual study of CREG. Minister, will you, in the meantime, amend the Electricity Act to require Elia to consult the CREG on the basic assumptions and calculation methodology? Will you, as the CREG suggests, entrust the audit of security of supply and risk of shortage calculations to independent experts? If so, when do you intend to introduce a bill in this area? And who would be responsible for this audit?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u131	Mr President, thank you for your conciseness, knowing that the presentation has just been made in detail. It's just justice because the subject is complicated enough to deserve some attention. My answer will be relatively long, it may contain one or the other repetition, which I apologize for. I will try to answer you in the order of the questions that have been asked to me. First, it should be recalled that balance reserves, and in particular the activation of Elia's tertiary reserves, are used to cover the residual real-time imbalance of the system. This residual imbalance is the result of errors in forecasting the load, the renewable, instantaneous losses of power plants, etc. The activation of these reserves is part of the normal equilibrium management process and therefore does not necessarily reflect a tense market situation, contrary to Mr Nollet's assertion. In order to manage the balance, the network operator has in particular pre-contracted tertiary reserves and unsecured additional tertiary reserves, which are linked to the flexibility of the production stock, not contracted and inter-network managers at European level. On 22 September, few additional reserves were available...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u132	Minister, I think you're giving us an answer to another question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u133	You're right. This answer concerns Lampiris.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u134	Let's just wait until the minister finds herself in her notes.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u135	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u136	I'll do it again, Mr. President. I agree with CREG on the need to precisely quantify the capacity requirement and define new security of supply measures. My administration is competent in terms of security of supply. You will hear Elia and the CREG, but we must not forget that there is also DG Energy. In view of the effective exchange of information between the TSO, DG Energy and the CREG - which are three bodies that work continuously together, and that is not to say that they still agree - throughout the process of setting up the strategic reserve for the winters 2014-2015 and 2015-2016, I think first of all that it is pointless to increase the process by a counter-expertise. That's why I called these three bodies to come to my office next week to discuss the basic assumptions and methodology. During my interview one evening at 5:30 p.m. on the RTBF, I heard a CREG stakeholder explain that they did not understand the basic assumptions, nor the references that Elia relied on to calculate the needs for the next winter. For the forecast of the coming winters, the strategic reserve will still be called upon to serve and it is therefore very important that we shed full light on this misunderstanding that seems to be taking place between Elia and CREG. I will propose several amendments to the legislation, including an extension of the conditions of access for production units which may participate in the tender, the conditions for returning to the market in the event of a temporary shutdown of a production facility, and the possibility that I may change the volume of strategic reserves on the basis of an update of the analysis of the system operator and the opinion of DG Energy. I would add that I would like to introduce by a new Article 7bis an obligation in the head of Elias to consult the speakers and the committee on the basic assumptions and methodology. But know now that spontaneously - and that's what's amazing and I want to clarify - there had been quite informal consultations in 2014 between these two institutions. It happened the same way this time again. Elia advances in a process of clarifying and finalizing her basic assumptions and methodology and will publish on her website, when she has finished her work, the table of her reflections on the basic assumptions and methodology, apart from any incentive legal framework, as I would like, in the coming weeks. I therefore fully share the concern for transparency. For obvious reasons of scientific precision and cost to society, we must be able to know what is happening. Particular attention will be paid to the assumptions taken into account in the probabilistic model. I explained to you what it was like to think about the means of production for this winter, and first of all, what I called, when I answered your questions last June, the small household account of DG Energy. This account brings together all the means of production existing in production on the territory and in interconnection but affects them - I will explain later - by a coefficient of unavailability by saying that for thermal power plants, it can be considered that they operate on average at 90% of the time, so 10% of their power in megawatts is removed to be sure of their availability. For all biomass cogeneration, I consider them to be 80% available, so I remove 20% of their production capacity and include this in my account. For wind and solar, since we are talking about peaks in winter, so the peaks of consumption between 5 p.m. and 8 p.m. in winter at a time when there is obviously no more sun and there is no more wind left than wind, I am affecting these sources of electricity generation with an unavailability coefficient of 80% and I only count them at 20%. With regard to interconnections, our country, like the Netherlands and France, is traversed by electricity networks. The Netherlands is a large exporter. France becomes an importer. There are of course megawatts which, when they are produced in the Netherlands and requested both in Belgium and in France, pass through Belgium to go to France. So we do not benefit from it. We thus arrive at a net balance of the imports that we can dispose of from the Netherlands. This is why they are calculated at the level of 2,700 megawatts not only by DG Energy but also by Elia. As far as imports are concerned, they need to be further modelled. We always have to try to refine the calculations as best we can. Ms. Lalieux asked a question where she said she read in De Tijd that we were not sure that the nuclear exit would succeed... The journalist translated things as he intended. I told him, however, that this government was complying with the release of nuclear power in 2025. Moreover, he decided to extend the activities of Doel 1 and Doel 2 by 10 years and not beyond. As I have already pointed out, if nuclear power were to be extended beyond 2025, steps would have to be taken now. You know better than I do! Nothing is done in that sense. So things are very clear. Due to the coupling of markets, production units connected to the Belgian network are exposed to competition from units located abroad. We must ensure that the burdens placed on them are not greater and equal to those borne by their competitors located abroad. In conclusion, I think it is useful, as the CREG says, for a discussion to take place on the level of security actually required, in cooperation with neighbouring countries. As far as I am concerned, I am already making every effort to increase production capacity in Belgium and to keep existing plants operational. You referred, Mr Nollet, to a paragraph on page 50 – I suppose – of the CREG report, according to which if everything were wonderful in the best of the worlds, a strategic reserve would not be necessary, all companies would operate at full speed and we would be a country of cocagne in terms of investment. Unfortunately, that is not the case. All assumptions can be considered and, in particular, based on the assumption that if we had a functioning market, we would have substantial gains. If market participants shared this analysis, no unit would leave the market for economic reasons and investment projects would be proposed. Of course, that would be ideal. But we're going to have to support and help this. I do not think that anything that observes the market today can say, except perhaps the CREG on page 50 by putting clear conditions, that the ideal is achieved. We are far from it! That is why we need a strategic reserve in which we put the units that are going to expire if they are not supported because we need them in the means of production when our system needs flexibility. We must therefore continue to work on the means of production present, continue to support our units which are in difficulty and also try, as far as possible, to increase the import capacity of the network. We had this whole discussion with the PST, remember! Of course, all this is at the centre of my concerns. I continue by referring to the famous page 13 which was mentioned earlier by Mrs Cassart in the report of the CREG of 10 September 2015. This report is visible on the CREG website. Unless you know him by heart, which I have no doubt about, you have the opportunity to view this picture. A graph indicates that the network loads over the past three winters were as shown on the chart, but this graph also clearly shows that some winters have been much more severe. Very honestly, the CREG has not tested only last winter. On page 32, there is still a title calling. She talks about the extreme conditions of the winter of 2014-15. However, the extreme conditions of winter 2014-15 were extremely mild! I quote from memory, but if you don't mind, I'll go back to the page.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u137	Mrs Marghem, these are "simulated extreme conditions".
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u138	Yes. We're going to get there. We'll start by talking about reality. I'm talking about the temperatures that came to light in 2014-15, last winter and, again on page 13, I'm talking about the much less extreme temperatures that came to light in the winter of 2010-11, either the blue curve at the top and especially those in the winter of 2007–08, or the red curve at the top. You see that between 2014 and 2015 and these two curves, there is a difference of 1,500 megawatts of sampling. If we had been confronted with these extreme temperatures, that is the difference we should have faced. Several stakeholders questioned the choices made in the study, which have implications for the conclusions that can be drawn. I'll ask the CREG about this and you can do it too since you have all the freedom to invite him to come here. We're choosing initial assumptions. From the moment you choose a starting hypothesis, you are led to a certain conclusion. But when we look at all the intellectual and scientific elements that are provided to the reader's reflection, we see that there are other elements that can and must be taken into account and on which we would not have had the same conclusions. The CREG says that we have always remained 1,000 megawatts from the strategic reserve during last winter. When I show you these temperatures 2007, 2008, 2010 and 2011, our 1,000 megawatts would have been far exceeded.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u139	You don't show us temperatures, you show us 2007 and 2008 consumption. Consumption also declined.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u140	We'll show you the temperature tables. I'll make it. What happens if, as we are now accustomed to it, faults occur in different units and deprive us of large quantities of megawatts? This is where DG Energy's reasoning comes in, which, on the basis of the experience of all the breakdowns which have affected the Belgian production stock for at least 10 years, is capable of knowing to what degree of reliability – this authority must provide me with reliable information – the production units are available or not. Here I have a list of the incidents in Belgian power stations that go back several years and that allow us to see what is happening in all the breakdowns and stops that affect our units.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u141	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u142	I attach this list to the report. These really harsh winters are far more severe than those on page 32. I have page 32 in front of me, where we see the exact title that you took up earlier. I was quoting it from memory but I prefer to read it, it's better: "External simulated conditions, winter 2014-2015." I understand what this means for the winter of 2014-2015 but I'm just saying: in consumption and, we're going to see, in temperatures, other winters have been much more extreme, if I can say so. This shows that the forecasts must be conservative. The winter chosen is not rigorous, since it is the one for 2011-2012, about which the table on page 13 clearly shows that it is one of the four mildest of the last ten years. Look at the consumption. Of course, we can consume too much for many reasons or we need all of this for businesses etc., but the increase in consumption is a fact that we have to deal with, especially in winter, with the relatively cold temperatures that we have to deal with. While the table on page 12 on minimum temperatures may suggest for a moment that 2011-2012 is the most rigorous, a more careful analysis will reveal to the reader that it shows the average minimum temperatures of the different winters and not the recorded negative peaks that create peaks of consumption. That is what interests us: consumption peaks. The minimum temperatures of December 2010 that would have had to be taken into account to simulate extreme conditions were as follows: on 2 December, ‐15°C at Furnes and ‐15.2°C at Arlon; on 3 December, ‐12.3°C at Brussels; on 7 and 8 December, ‐26.1°C at Virton, –21°C at Wasseiges, ‐17.7°C at Maaseik and ‐7.7°C at Brussels; on 8 and 9 December, ‐15.6°C at Furnes, ‐16.8°C at Brussels, -18°C at Maaseik and ‐23.5°C at Gembloux, etc. This, while the average minimums were –5.8°C. You have to face peaks and to meet these peaks, at the moment when you need energy, you have to know their magnitude. If you read in an average, necessarily, you do not follow the curve of negative peaks. I think the questions that you are asking yourself and that the CREG is asking themselves are entirely legitimate. That is why I want clarification. I think it will be useful to broaden its scope of research, that is to say, all the elements that are taken into account before drawing any conclusions. Since I have the chance to have three instances that give me information, I try to take the best of each and bring together the points of view to get an idea as accurate as possible. Elia's estimates correspond to those of DG Energy. The Energy DG draws up its figures, it assigns these figures to the production stock of the unavailability coefficients that I have mentioned to you, and it transmits them to Elia, who is beginning to calculate the strategic reserve. DG Energy serves all successive governments and ministers and does so competently and impartially. The figures correspond to the figures they presented to the previous government. Therefore, before sweeping the estimate of anyone and anything, I prefer to try to question myself on the basis of the elements at my disposal, even before the CREG makes its ex-post study. As I make the strategic reserve decision for 2014-15, I rely on the elements available to me and the similarities of the conclusions that are in my possession. The administration's position must, of course, be cautious, since its role is to advise the government on the choice to make. This caution is all the more necessary since it is on the basis of the production stock figures provided by the administration that the TSO carries out this analysis. He himself is bound, by the law that governs him, to prudence. Not only does he give me figures, but he must also ensure that the consumer is supplied. He is the guardian of this role. This difference of perspective and therefore of mission means that the TSO must take safety margins and I prefer to act as cautiously as possible so that we are sufficiently close to the successive winters. The administration does likewise, on each unit, have only a percentage of unavailability which varies by type of plant. The means of production given by CREG on page 3, point 4, is 11 000 MW, but it does not take into account this power reduction which accounts for the average unavailability based on the experience of each plant, which means that when DG Energy gives me its figures, I have 1 000 MW of difference. So I get to 10,000 megawatts when the CREG is 11,000 megawatts and takes the gross figure. These margins are indispensable. I would like to encourage every actor, within his or her scope, competence and independence, to show his or her sagacity, open-mindedness and objectiveness, without encroaching on each other's skills, so that we can have the best possible guidance so that the assessments can be carried out as precisely as possible and with the necessary security. I will repeat this in the presence of the three speakers. I will conclude by recalling that in the new legislation, for further consultation, I would like to invite the TSO to refer to the requirement to consult the CREG in advance on the basic assumptions and methodology. But this is already done on a voluntary basis, as I explained to you. That is my answer to your general question. You also had two sets of specific questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u143	Madam Minister, I do not know if this is possible, but I would like to have the answers to the questions in this third part, which are more technical and less political, in writing.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u144	No problem. We'll type these answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u145	We will put this on the intranet site. This is Question No 6562? We then turn it into a written question and the Minister will provide the answers in writing.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u146	All right.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u147	I would also point out that the document that the Minister gave to the services with the incidents in the central office will be on the commission's intranet site.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u148	Mr President, would you like me to give you the updated table from DG Energy? It resulted in a gross figure of 11,371 and a net figure of 9,475.8. So we're far from the 11,000 megawatts that CREG is talking about. This update is dated 1 October 2015.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u149	Thank you, Madam Minister. We will put this on the commission's intranet site. Mr. Secretary takes the document. In so doing, can we consider that you have completed your answer?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u150	Mr President, I think I have completed all my answers for this chapter.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u151	Mr President, I shall confine myself to a political reply. The CREG, which is the federal energy regulator, says twice that Elia artificially inflated the figures. You refuse to recognize him and you justify yourself for ten thousand reasons, to which I will not reply. We understand why you refuse to recognize it and why you are making Elia's deliberate choice rather than that of the regulator. That's because the only argument you put forward in the debate on the extension of Doel 1 and Doel 2 was the risk of shortage. Now, today, the regulator says, "No, Elia has inflated her numbers." And you refuse to admit it for the reasons I just explained. If you were sure of yourself, you would accept the counter-expertise. The CREG simply has the caution to propose that an academic team undertake an independent counter-expertise. And you refuse it, too. I don't understand. It's inconsistent. If you have no problem, then accept the proposal from CREG! This attitude, this political choice, I obviously cannot share. And the CREG says – on this subject I didn't hear you – that "you must have access to the assumptions and models used by Elia". Today, we do not have access to it. Elia is a huge black box. Then it gives the results that it contests because they serve politics, Electrabel and the extension of nuclear power. That is the current situation! Minister, I urge you to review your own numbers and strategic reserve requirements. I insist, not to say that there is no longer a need for a strategic reserve, but that it is not necessary to inflate the number, because it is systematically the bill of companies and citizens that is targeted. I have limited myself to a political reply so as to obtain a more technical answer in the context of the oral question transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u152	Mr. Chair, I think the Minister's answers will feed into my interventions in the coming debates, and I thank her for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u153	I take note of the minister's response that we will analyze.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u154	I give the floor to Mr Nollet for his question No 5900 on the relevance of a capacity market in Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u155	Mr President, given the hour, if I can now receive the written answer to my oral question and if it is turned into a written question, I can turn to the next question. I therefore turn my question No 5900 into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u156	Mr. President, Madam Minister, the July 29th newspaper L'Echo tells us that you have commissioned a new study to ensure that there is no oversubsidization of wind at sea. According to the president of the Belgian Offshore Platform, this study focuses on the 12 euros per MWh planned for parks that connect directly to the coast. Can you tell us more, on the one hand, what motivated your decision to launch such a study in addition to all those that already existed; on the other hand, who was responsible for carrying out this study and finally, to clarify the timing given for the completion of this study but also for the decisions that will follow. You are aware that many players are waiting for this announcement and that a clarification of the timetable could already be useful information.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u157	Madam Minister, we have indeed learned in the press that you have commissioned a new study at CREG to ensure that there is no oversubsidization of wind at sea. As the newspaper L'Echo points out, this is a "uncertainty that could be costly for the two parks that are due to close their funding in 2016, Norther and Rentel". Indeed, these parks, which plan to close their funding within six months, will depend on the new offshore support system. For example, Norther, which is closer to the coast than to the single take-off project and also Rentel have opted for their own connection to the land, a scenario in which the new support system provides an additional 12 euros per MWh produced. Minister, while the government agreement already mentioned an evaluation of the offshore support mechanism, why did you wait a year to conduct this evaluation? Was it appropriate to allow investors to mount their financing projects and wait until the project was completed before launching this evaluation? When are the conclusions of the CREG study expected?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u158	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your questions. With regard to the support scheme for the offshore wind farm, on 25 June 2015, the Government instructed me to analyse and, where appropriate, make a proposal by 31 December 2015 on the support scheme for offshore energy and submarine cable and to identify possible sources of overcompensation. In any event, it is for the federal authority to ensure equal treatment between offshore wind farms and to avoid overcompensating parks for the profitability required for their development. Both the LCOE (Leveled Cost of Energy) elements of EUR 138 per MWh and EUR 12 per MWh for the financing of the cable connection and the following elements will have to be analysed. These are: - the period within which the LCOE is allocated, - the number of hours at full load taking into account the calculation of the LCOE, - calculation of the support of EUR 12 per MWh for the offshore cable, - the number of quarters of hours in support which can be counted in negative price times - and financing costs (borrowing costs, insurance, etc.)). This is in particular in the context of the government agreement which states that the government will revise the renewable energy support mechanisms in accordance with the European Commission's guidelines on State aid for environmental protection and energy for the period 2014-2020. This implementation will, among other things, contribute to a better integration of renewable energies into the market. In this context, the Government intends to apply these new guidelines (new since July 2014) to the installed and planned production capacity of renewable energy in the North Sea, which is still heavily dependent on out-of-market subsidies. This government decision is accompanied by a clear commitment to the development of offshore parks within the initial timeframe. As you know, the two parks we are talking about have their closure in 2017 and the bankers are also obviously waiting to have certain information. These parks are indeed necessary for the achievement of the 20-20-20 objectives by the Belgian State. However, as a good father of the family and in accordance with the newly applicable European provisions, the government must verify that the applicable support schemes do not constitute a source of over-rentability for final consumers, which would increase the energy bills of households, businesses and industries. I have met the sector on several occasions and have speeded up the timetable initially set by the government by requesting an analysis from CREG, which it will carry out in consultation with the stakeholders, the operator Elia and DG Energy. The conclusions of the CREG are expected in the coming days and in the light of them, a possible proposal to adapt the applicable regime will be submitted by the end of the year, i.e. well before the closure of one of the offshore parks you mention. As far as the development of the Dutch maritime area of Borsele is concerned, it came from Mrs Leen Dierick, who is absent. So I'm stopping here.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u159	Mr President, I will take the time to analyse this response in depth.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u160	For my part, I don't have a reply yet.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u161	Mr Nollet, I give you the floor for your question No 5902 on the conclusions of the study on energy storage.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u162	Mr President, we can also turn this question into a written question if it still suits the minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u163	My collaborator will personally address you after the meeting for practical details.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u164	Mr Nollet, we come to your question No 5903 on the initiatives taken to encourage and support "citizen aggregators".
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u165	Same proposition.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u166	This question is therefore transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u167	Mr President, Madam Minister, at our committee on 30 June, you announced that an inter-federal IKW had to approve the list of people to be consulted in drawing up the energy pact. Could you now give us this list – since it dates from 30 June – and also tell us how the federal parliament will be involved in the work of the pact? Could you also tell us where you are with the Regions on the development of a common methodology for drawing up this pact? The methodology had not yet been jointly approved in the past. As the content and the various chapters of the Pact can only be discussed after agreement on the methodology, I would also like to know if you can now see more clearly on the work schedule. When, for example, can we expect to receive the first version of the proposal for a pact?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u168	Madam Minister, I have just referred to it in the context of the rules of procedure. There are parliaments that are moving forward and have at least found a basis for support, across the borders of majority and opposition, around the methodology for the Energy Pact. Unfortunately, we have not yet succeeded in doing so. I hope that we will be able to do so in the coming weeks. In the meantime, I would like to take this opportunity to discuss with you the state of play of the Energy Pact, especially with the question of how social stakeholders will be involved in its preparation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u169	Madam Minister, you have repeatedly stated that in 2019, the next government will still be able to take the decision to extend the Doel 4 nuclear reactor, if it so wishes, or if the necessary investments in production capacity have not been made, in order to ensure the security of supply of Belgium. However, investors need a stable legal framework and a clear energy vision, not a short-term view by 2019. You have decided to discontinue the call for tenders for new gas capacity and you have announced a capacity compensation mechanism but, for the time being, no project in this area has yet been completed. In addition, CREG highlighted the challenge of implementing such a mechanism and, above all, the necessary steps to be taken before implementing the mechanism. On the other hand, you cannot fall behind regional competences by supporting your entire policy on an energy pact because you are the guarantor of national security of supply. Minister, what measures are you going to implement to ensure the security of supply of Belgium and not just by 2019? Could you provide an update on the progress of work on the energy pact?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u170	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, security of supply is, of course, my top priority. You know that I had to deal with a difficult situation that was the result of the deterioration of our production fleet, as Mrs Lalieux pointed out earlier. The government has taken on its responsibilities. It was right – I know we do not have the same opinion on the subject – to extend the life of the Doel 1 and Doel 2 plants by ten years. This measure allows us to consider with serenity the issue of security of supply in the years to come. Of course, we are going to prepare for the energy future of our country, within the limited legislative framework we know. You were right to stress the need for a stable legal framework and a clear energy vision. That's what I'm working on. We must ensure that an investment climate is created. With this in mind, setting up a CRM is an option. You quoted the report I asked for from CREG. If you have read it, you have seen that its conclusions call for caution on the subject. You referred to the cancellation of the call for tenders for new gas capacity, without stating that this cancellation was the result of the application of the European competition rules, which are more demanding in terms of support. In fact, we were obliged to carry out an overcompensation study with regard to the offshore. I intend to be very careful and avoid solutions that I would propose having the same fate, of course. The introduction of a capacity compensation mechanism is very complex and requires in-depth analysis. It may be ineffective if it is poorly constructed. It must be analysed in a wider context than Belgium and take account of the fact that interconnections play a very important role. In addition, the European Commission analyses the different types of CRM and envisages a communication on this issue in the very short term. The best solution would be a mechanism common to the whole of the European Union. With this in mind, the strategic reserve mechanism in place seems to me to be an adequate means of maintaining operational units that would have been decommissioned without it. We are working to improve this mechanism and, as I said earlier, I will propose a project in this direction within a few weeks. The project will take into account the recommendations made by CREG, in particular with regard to clarifying the requirements for participation in the reserve of production units, the extent of the products eligible for participation in the reserve. It will also lay down the terms of return to the market for pre-announced decommissioning units and make changes to the transparency of the transmission system operator's analysis. There is a repetition phenomenon that is inevitable - everything is in everything! – on security of supply. Finally, with regard to the energy pact, you will allow me first of all to regret that you can see in it a desire to fall behind regional policies. We are far from that and my colleagues in charge of energy in the three regions are fortunately not sharing this vision. On the contrary, they agree with me that this pact can enable us to come up with a shared vision of the energy future of our country, which can be turned into concrete measures, so that the energy future can best be prepared in a coherent manner. The work of this pact began following the decision of the Council of Ministers of 13 March 2015 to agree on the document "Foundations for an Energy Vision", which I spoke to you about at the time. As regards a purely federal point of view, I have initiated discussions with the Regions. Here's the schedule. On 12 May 2015 a first meeting of the Interfederal IKW was held on the basis of this document and a working methodology was proposed. On 10 June 2015, the Interfederal IKW agreed on this working methodology. Work to develop the inter-federal energy vision was entrusted to a steering committee comprising representatives of the inter-federal IKW and representatives of the administrations concerned. This steering committee must meet at least once a month. It identifies the topics to be addressed and establishes ad hoc working groups. Each working group should prepare a summary of its work and the text on the subject to be included in the final text. It is expected that the working groups will consult widely on the basis of a list of stakeholders drawn up by the Steering Committee, which I have given to my collaborator for the purpose of transmitting to you. It is also expected that the energy vision resulting from the synthesis of the work will be subject to public consultation. In my view, the synthesis of the work and the proposal for an inter-federal energy vision must be drafted before the end of the first quarter of 2016. Work on the inter-federal energy pact may take place in 2016. The composition of a first test working group on interconnections was agreed and a first meeting was held on 6 July 2015. A meeting of the steering committee comprising the inter-federal IKW took place on 8 July 2015. That's where we're at right now. We continue the work as initiated. I would also like the energy vision to be as appropriate as possible for the population. The intermediate documents will, of course, be presented to the Federal Parliament. In order to strengthen this process, I would also like to propose to the regional ministers the signing of a joint declaration of intent in the coming weeks. That is the ambitious goal we have set ourselves! We know it's very demanding. When we observe for example the debate on the energy transition in France or the energyakkoord that took several years of work, I think we are launched into something exciting but that will take us a lot of time by 2016.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u171	Mr President, I agree with the minister that this is an exciting and ambitious project. Obviously it takes a little time, but it is also necessary for the players to be involved – and I am talking not only about the Regions, but also about the energy sector. It is not a question of presenting them with an agreement that has been drawn up by the government so that they can give their opinion when it is too late. They must therefore be truly associated. In this context, I have heard that you have decided with the Regions to set up a steering committee to meet once a month. It's done and it's rolling. But has the whole methodology been agreed? I didn't get it right.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u172	May I suggest you continue?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u173	Mr. President, I'm looking for my documents.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u174	I take note of the joint statement with the regional ministers. It is a way of reviving the momentum, which I find rather positive. I come to our motion for a resolution, Mr President. As Mr Calvo pointed out earlier, the Flemish and Walloon parliaments have already adopted a text on the energy pact. This is not yet our case. I hope you will send us your comments on our proposal, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u175	I will check the state of the matter, but I said that the inter-federal IKW had agreed on a methodology on 10 June and that work on the development of the inter-federal vision had been entrusted to a steering committee, which includes representatives of this IKW and those of the administrations concerned. This committee determines the topics to be addressed and establishes the working groups. A priori, therefore, the methodology comes from the inter-federal IKW.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u176	So it was also adopted by the Regions?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u177	Absolutely, by the inter-federal IKW. It's a term I'm going to use often.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u178	The IKW is a good idea. You therefore consider that the methodology is definitively approved?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u179	Absolutely, it was done by federal and regional representatives within the framework of this IKW.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u180	Mr. Chair, Minister, I would like to share with you the content of the strategic reserve, the criteria for choosing whether or not to select certain offers, and the information provided to the various candidates. At our committee on 30 June, you announced that the total eligible bids were around 1,318 megawatts. After Elia's analysis and waiting for the CREG's, you announced that this amount actually fell to 804.8 megawatts, but that this figure was not yet definitive. On 18 August, the newspaper L'Echo reported that while some actors had received confirmation that their offer was being accepted, Electrabel said that it had not yet received a definitive response. Strangely enough, your firm refused to comment. Minister, what offers are finally accepted, for what volume, and according to what criteria? What offers are definitively refused and why? Why, as of 18 August, did some actors not receive a definitive response and why did you refuse to communicate this fact? What, for example, of the plant located in Luxembourg – Twinerg, not to mention – and what about demand management? No offer was considered unreasonable, if I am what Ms Fauconnier said in her interview in the newspaper L'Echo on Wednesday, September 21. She said that no supply related to demand management under this strategic reserve was refused. I would also like to know the list of production units, and the volume concerned, which had at one point announced their closure and which have finally returned to their decision. In short, these are very clear list requests because things have changed so much that we need to take stock of this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u181	Mr. Chair, Mr.Nollet, in response to your questions 1 and 2, in April 2015 the TSO received bids for the 2015-2016 strategic reserve for a total amount of 1,312.8 megawatts distributed as follows: bids from ten applicants in demand management for a total amount of 358.4 megawatts and bids from three applicants in production for a total amount of 954.4 megawatts. The 508 megawatts of production at Drogenbos d'Electrabel have meanwhile returned to the market, bringing the strategic reserve potential available to 804.8 megawatts. As far as your third question is concerned, the players whose tenders were found not manifestly unreasonable by CREG have received confirmation that their offer was accepted, which is not the case with the offer of the Twinerg power plant of 376 megawatts, considered manifestly unreasonable by CREG, and which, in accordance with the law, is currently the subject of negotiations. I know that these were successful because I recently saw the Luxembourg Minister of Energy.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u182	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u183	She's taking part. We arrived at an acceptable price.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u184	It therefore enters the strategic reserve, in addition to the rest.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u185	Prices have been negotiated sharply downwards.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u186	As regards the re-marketing of production units, these are the following units: Herdersbrug: 167 megawatts; Awirs: 4.95 megawatts; Beerse: 32 megawatts; Turon: 18 megawatts; Volta: 18 megawatts; Buda: 18 megawatts; Solvay: 98 megawatts and Drogenbos: 508 megawatts.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u187	Thank you, minister, for these elements. So we have a list of production units that have returned, with the exact name. We have the answers in terms of number of offers. But we do not have a precise list of successful and refused offers. Could you give it to us? This information must be public, because we need to know who is on the reserve.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u188	You want Elia's list?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u189	Yes, the list of offers that will be on the strategic reserve.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u190	The one that will be published this year?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u191	Yeah, this year. You made the count of the plants that are retained and refused. I'd like their names.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u192	Is that possible, Madam Minister?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u193	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u194	As Mr Vanvelthoven and Ms Lalieux were not present, their questions were not relevant.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u195	Pursuant to a 2011 Directive, Member States are aware that they should transmit to the Commission for the first time the content of their national programme for the management of spent fuel and radioactive waste by 23 August 2015. I would therefore like to know when the government adopted this programme and when Belgium transmitted its national programme to the European Commission. I'm talking about a program here and not a project. I would also like to know the outline, to receive a copy and to know how the public can learn about it. Article 14.3 of the Directive provides that an international peer review may be requested for this programme and that such an evaluation may be made available to the public. I would therefore like to know whether this international assessment has taken place, how it has been set up, the outline of what emerges from it, whether it exists and how the public can learn about it. The most important is, of course, the content of the programme. For the international aspect, we can see in a second phase.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u196	Mr President, before answering these questions, let me recall the legal framework for the establishment of the national programme for the management of spent fuel and radioactive waste. Belgium completed, in June 2014, the transposition into its domestic law of Council Directive 2011/70/Euratom of 19 July 2011 establishing a Community framework for the responsible and safe management of spent fuel and radioactive waste. Under the Act, a committee is established to prepare a proposal for a national programme called the "National Programme Committee". The Ministers with Energy and Economy in their powers shall lay down the national programme by deliberate ministerial decree in the Council of Ministers on a proposal from that Committee and after consulting the competent regulatory authority and shall notify the European Commission of the national report on the implementation of the Directive. As far as the national programme is concerned, its first edition is limited to a description without new normative content of the existing situation as at 31 December 2014 regarding the national policy for the management of spent fuel and radioactive waste, the implementation of these policies and the national framework for such implementation. These policies have been defined in accordance with the legal and regulatory provisions, in particular with regard to the environment, transboundary impact and public information in force at the time of their establishment. These policies are the basis for the safe and daily management of Belgian radioactive waste and spent fuel for many years. A draft of this first edition of the national programme and the national report were notified to the Energy DG of the European Commission on 21 August 2015. Although the national programme is not part of the plans and programmes listed in Article 6(1)(1) of the Act of 13 February 2006, Minister Peeters and I have asked DG Energy to seek the opinion of the SEA Committee on the need to carry out an environmental impact assessment in the context of the preparation of the first national programme for the management of spent fuel and radioactive waste, in accordance with Article 6(3)(2) of the Act. The SEA Opinion Committee was formally seized on 20 August 2015. His opinion was sent by e-mail to DG Energy on 29 September. Since the formal transmission of the opinion by the SEA Opinion Committee took a few days late, DG Energy should send it to us in the next few days. I can already give you the result of this consultation of the Opinion Committee. His opinion was as follows: "The current draft national programme for the management of spent fuel and radioactive waste should not be the subject of a strategic environmental impact assessment. The Opinion Committee also strongly recommended that the national programme should be submitted ex officio for screening when it is subject to subsequent substantial changes." My colleague Peeters and I can now work on the ministerial decree setting up the national programme as soon as possible. The first national programme, in its final version, as well as the various opinions will first be available on DG Energy's website, so as not to delay their publication, and in the following months, on a website dedicated to this programme. With regard to compliance with the procedure laid down in the Act of 3 June 2014, we have complied with the procedure laid down, but we have been able to add as an intermediate step the consultation of the SEA Opinion Committee. This consultation seemed important to us and was not provided for in the 2014 law. The Opinion Committee recommended clarifying the institutional path in order to clarify the procedures, interactions and roles to be played between the various bodies and authorities involved in its establishment. As regards compliance with the conditions laid down by the Act of 3 June 2014 on the subjects to be included in the national programme referred to in Article 12 of the Euratom/70 Directive, these subjects have been taken up almost word for word and with the same numbering in Article 6 of the Act of 3 June 2014, which transposes this Directive into Belgian law. Three additional topics were added by section 6. These 14 topics have been systematically addressed in the draft national programme that has been transmitted to us. As far as international assessment is concerned, Article 8.3 of the June Act reproduces Article 14.3 of the European Directive and states: "It shall be organised periodically and at least every ten years, at the initiative of the competent ministers, an international peer review of the national framework, the competent regulatory authority and/or the national programme with a view to ensuring that the safe management of spent fuel and radioactive waste meets high safety standards". Article 8.4, which is also derived from the Directive, provides for the availability of the results of peer review to the public, but limits it logically by saying: "as long as this is not incompatible with the security and confidentiality of information". The timing of this international assessment is therefore left to the discretion of the member countries. There is no requirement to carry out an international evaluation prior to the adoption of the first programme. With regard to the national policy on the long-term management of highly radioactive waste, article 4 of the Law of 3 June 2014 provides that the King shall, on a proposal from ONDRAF and with the advice of the competent regulatory authority, establish by deliberate decree in the Council of Ministers any new national policy. National policies are considered as plans or programmes within the meaning of the Act of 13 February 2006 on the assessment of the impact of certain plans and programmes on the environment and on public participation in the preparation of plans and programmes relating to the environment. In June 2015, Minister Peeters and I became aware of a national policy proposal drawn up by ONDRAF on the basis of its strategic plan for the long-term management of radioactive waste packaged with high activity and/or long life, known as waste plan B and C. I would like to recall that the first programme is limited to a description without new normative content of the situation existing as at 31 December 2014 in the field of national policy for the management of spent fuels and radioactive waste. It will therefore not contain a new national policy on the long-term management of highly radioactive waste.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u197	Minister, the situation is a real problem. On the one hand, you give a simple description and there is no policy behind it. On the other hand, you say that what was sent to DG Energy was a project. It's not the national program. To use the expression of the weekly Le Vif, you are therefore "out-of-law" in relation to this obligation known since 2011. The directive dates back to 2011, and the directive and the law speak well of the introduction of a final national programme, not of a draft programme that has yet to be examined. You asked for additional opinions, etc. All of this is possible, but it is not possible to justify a postponement of the program's filing beyond August 23, 2015. So you're outlawed on that part. I have one more question. You say it will be published on the website of the Belgian Energy DG. Can you tell me about when this publication will be effective? I actually search this site every day.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u198	Kris Peeters and I have, and you have emphasized, preferred to ensure respect for the SEA question. The European Commission also wondered about this. It is therefore an environmental study and public consultation. I would remind you, however, that I am Minister of the Environment and therefore this is not neutral. The national programme is indeed a basic element in the management of radioactive waste which extends over the long term. This document must be robust. An opinion was therefore requested from the SEA Committee and the need to carry out this study and consultation was negative. Having asked for these opinions, etc., we will publish the Ministerial Order and all this will be available in my opinion within a month and a half – two months from that day.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u199	I therefore take note of the approximate date on which it will be published. Having said that, you could have sought the advice of the SEA Committee earlier. I have heard – and it is to your credit – that you have the will to take environmental impact studies into consideration.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u200	You're asking me to evolve. You can see that this is the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u201	I recognize it and I welcome it. But this must be done in time and in accordance with the steps set out in the 2011 directive. No doubt, you're going to question your predecessor. But still it is that you have had a year to manage the part which is a question and must be noticed that you will be late since the publication will only take place on DG Energy's website within a month, a month and a half.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u202	Mr Nollet, I propose that you turn your question into a written question on the agreement concluded on 9 October 1985 between the Belgian State and the electricity sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u203	This is not my next question, which is brief.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u204	Mr President, Madam Minister, I would like to know what follow-up you have given to the agreement concluded on 9 October 1985 between the Belgian State and the electricity companies and regulating the cover of the costs and charges for dismantling and decontamination of the sites of each nuclear unit by setting up provisions within each company. Unless it is wrong, this agreement has expired. That's why I'm asking you this question. Do you confirm that? What follow-up have you given to this situation? I would also like you to give us a copy of this agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u205	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Convention ceases to have effect on the expiry of the thirtieth year after the date of industrial entry into service of the Tihange 3 plant, i.e. on 31 August 2016, the said plant having been put into industrial operation on 1 September 1985. In the meantime, the Act of 11 April 2003 on provisions for the dismantling of nuclear power plants and the management of irradiated fissile material in nuclear power plants has established the rules for this purpose. This law is in line with the principles relating to the establishment of the provisions necessary to cover the costs of dismantling and decontamination of nuclear power stations, as laid down in the Convention of 9 October 1985 signed by the Belgian State. This convention is historic in nature. It was established at another time, in a completely regulated framework and is transposed into the Act of 11 April 2003 on provisions; you certainly know that. I see no problem with his communication to parliamentarians, but it has been signed by the Belgian State, EBES, UNERG, Intercom and SPE which has since become Electrabel. Of course, I must ask for the agreement of the signatories, as a matter of principle. I am sure that they will say yes and that it will please not only you, but also historians.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u206	If the Convention is still valid until 31 August 2016 and if it still commits the signatories, including the Belgian State, to certain things, it seems to me logical that we should be able to know about it. I assume that when it comes to elements that are also fundamentally binding on the State and its finances, and therefore on the citizens, it will not always be necessary to ask for the agreement of each other. For the rest, I will carefully analyse the elements of your answer to determine the follow-up to be given to this oral question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u207	Mr Nollet, the day you sign a convention with the Belgian State – why not? - I suppose you'd prefer me to ask you for your opinion before I publish it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u208	I do not understand the meaning of your question, minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u209	The next item is the question No 6118 on emergency generators.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u210	Mr President, if you still agree to operate as decided earlier, I propose to turn this question into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u211	All right. We come to Question No 6120 on the numerical consequences of the placement of a transformer-dephaser in series.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u212	I propose to do the same, if it is possible for the minister. [[Sentiment]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u213	Mr.President, Minister, the situation on the electricity market was particularly tense on September 21 and 22, 2015. Logical when we know the number of nuclear power plants shut down for problems presented as "technical"! Three indices confirm this tension: the price boom on the Belpex stock exchange, on the one hand, the use of the tertiary reserve, on the other hand, and, finally, the warning to the market launched by Elia at the beginning of the day on Tuesday, 22 September. It should be recalled that if recourse to the tertiary reserve is a planned procedure, it is normally used in cases of emergency (e.g. a power plant failure) which result in the need to resort immediately to an alternative. It should also be noted that on 22 September, more than 40% of this tertiary reserve had to be mobilised! Can you tell us how many times and when the tertiary reserve has been used with (at least) such a proportion in the past, taking as a basis of comparison the last five years, in and out of winter in and out of emergency situations? Can you also tell us what elements of this tertiary reserve were used on September 21, 22 and 23, and how much were our imports on those same dates? It seems that Twinerg's TGV power station, which has been shut down for many months and whose final stop is scheduled for 1 October, was relaunched on the night of Tuesday to Wednesday. Let us go on to the fact that this shows once again the unhealthy aspect of the current procedures of exit and entry into the market and the possibilities of "yo-yo" which are offered to the largest players to focus on the situation of tension that might arise in October, especially if the revival of Tihange 1 is postponed or if a new problem arises. At that time, we will not be in the winter. So you still won't be able to activate the strategic reserve. On the other hand, you will no longer have access to this 376-megawatt power plant located on Grand-Ducal territory. The impact on the use of the tertiary reserve is likely to be even greater if such a situation were to occur in October. On the size of the price, as of Monday 21 September, prices exceeded 180 euros per megawatt/hour, more than four times the usual price. But this already high amount was far exceeded the next day, with peaks at 450 euros, ten times more than the usual price! Can you tell us when such summits were reached in the past, and how high were those summits? Let us also take as a reference the last five years, in and out of winter. I now turn to the warning to the market that has been made, pointing to the existence of a negative imbalance on the network and calling on all players who still have available capacities to make them available. Can you tell us how many times and when such a warning has already been issued in the past? Always take the last five years as a basis for comparison, distinguishing here also between winter and other periods in and out of emergency situations.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u214	Mr President, Mr Nollet, first of all I would like to apologize because I will repeat what I said earlier when I was wrong. It is important, however, because it is a very technical subject and it needs to be understood. First of all, I would like to point out that the balance reserves, in particular the activation of Elia's tertiary reserves, are used to cover the residual imbalance in real time of the system. This imbalance is the result of errors in forecasting the load, the renewable, instantaneous losses of power plants. The activation of balance reserves is therefore part of a normal equilibrium management process and therefore does not necessarily reflect a tense market situation. In order to manage the balance, the network operator has in particular pre-contracted tertiary reserves and unsecured additional tertiary reserves, therefore not contracted and inter-network managers at European level, to cover the flexibility of the production stock. Few additional reserves were available on 22 September, which led Elia to activate pre-contracted tertiary reserves. The activation of this tertiary reserve allowed Elia to have a good setting quality, while retaining a majority of the reserve available. Mr Nollet, I come to your question: how many times and when has the tertiary reserve been used with at least such a proportion in the past, taking as a basis of comparison the last five years in and out of winter periods in and out of emergency situations? As explained above, the activation of the tertiary reserve is not the result of emergency situations but is part of the reserve necessary for the management of balance in all circumstances. I'll give you some statistics on the activation of tertiary reserves. On 22 September, Elia activated a maximum of 355 megawatts of tertiary reserve. I have a chart for 2011-2015 that represents the number of quarter-hours per period, winter or not, where the activated tertiary reserve power is greater than or equal to this figure. It should be noted that the tertiary reserve consists of several products: additional tertiary reserve, tertiary production reserve, tertiary reserve of dynamic profile, interruptible customers, intermanagers of network, but not guaranteed. Over the past five years, the number of quarters of an hour is about 510, spread over a table that I will send to the President. Then you ask me if I can tell you what elements of this tertiary reserve were used on September 21, 22 and 23, and how high our imports were on those same dates. Activations of the tertiary reserve elements were the unsecured reserve with a maximum of 200 megawatts, the production reserve with a maximum of 300 megawatts and the dynamic profile reserve at 60 megawatts for specified times. Net imports for September 21, 22 and 23 ranged from 2,500 to 3,500 megawatts with a peak of 4,000 megawatts on September 23 between 2 and 3 hours. You're also talking about Twinerg's TGV power plant. The formation of the imbalance price is carried out according to the balancing rules. It is very important for the functioning of the balancing market, the aim being that the imbalance prices reflect the value of flexibility in order to give correct incentives to market participants. This reduces the residual imbalance that ETSO needs to address in real time and avoids a sharp increase in reserve requirements. Since 2012, the single marginal pricing system has been applied with free activation prices. In a context where flexibility is rarer in the market, it is difficult to talk about usual prices. Elia has seen greater volatility in imbalance prices in recent times. It is important to point out, as already mentioned, that the formation of the imbalance price has changed since 2012 and that a comparison is therefore difficult. I give you two graphs in which the number of quarter-hours with imbalance prices greater than 180 euros per megawatt/hour was about 1,635, distributed between 2010 and 2015. The number of quarter-hours with imbalance prices above 450 euros per megawatt/hour was about 75, distributed between 2010 and 2015. You're talking about the warning to the market that we've been dealing with. Market warnings have been in place since the summer of 2012. Since then, five warnings have been issued. Four times in day ahead and once in intraday. 7 November 2013 for 8 November 2013, 23 October 2013 for 24 October 2013, 13 July 2015 for 14 July 2015, 31 August 2015 for 1 September 2015 and 22 September 2015 for the same day. Warnings have been in place since 2012. I've taken all the warnings from you since then. The only one on the intraday is that of September 22nd.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u215	Minister, I will analyze this in detail with the graphs, because it is difficult to reply on graphs that I have not yet read. I'll come back to that if I do. I note, however, that this is the only analysis I can already make, that indeed, this is the first time that a market warning had to be made in intraday, in any case the first time in five years. For me, it's a signal.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u216	Mr Nollet, I give you the floor to the next question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u217	Mr President, I wish to turn my question No 6452 into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u218	That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u219	Mr President, Madam Minister, according to the information published in recent weeks by the German press, the provisions set aside by German energy companies for the dismantling of their nuclear power plants are likely to be very inadequate, which has seriously affected the course of RWE and E.ON in Frankfurt. Based on the intermediate result of an expertise commissioned by the German Ministry of Economy, the online edition of the magazine Der Spiegel quoted an amount of 30 billion that would be missing from the call (for 38 billion already provided). Minister, are you aware of these elements? Are you in contact with your German counterpart, if only to know the methodology of the audit carried out? Do you not think that such an audit would be welcome in Belgium too? In addition to these elements linked to the revision of the size of the amount needed for dismantling, my question focuses on the evolution of the legal framework which the Germans are undertaking to deal with the possible evolution of the legal structures of their nuclear undertakings. The German Government has in fact announced its intention to legislate this month to ensure that nuclear operators are left alone to bear the costs of dismantling their reactors, even in the event of a change of ownership (we know about E.ON's plans in this area), and do not base these costs on taxpayers. Do you not think that the Belgian legal framework would also benefit from being strengthened in this direction, given the various movements announced or possible in the legal structures of our main operators in the sector?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u220	Dear colleague, a press article was published on Der Spiegel's website on 15 September, reporting on a report in preparation on nuclear supplies in Germany. It is of course not for me to comment before you on a report to be issued. We will notify when the final version is available. Let me remind you, however, that unlike Belgium, which has decided to step out of nuclear power, Germany has chosen a rapid exit from nuclear power. I am therefore not surprised to learn that their provisioning system must be evaluated and, where appropriate, adapted. Here again, it is not for me to comment on the work being done by my German colleague. With regard to the Belgian situation, in 2001, the then Government agreed to achieve adequate prudential control of the State over the adequacy of provisions for the dismantling of nuclear power plants and their management, with a view to ensuring their effective availability for the subsequent cost of decommissioning nuclear power plants and the management of fissile material irradiated in such nuclear power plants. This decision led to the Act of 11 April 2003 on provisions for the dismantling of nuclear power plants and the management of irradiated fissile material in such plants. Let me remind you that the role of the Commission on Nuclear Supplies in Belgium is very real. This committee has the competence to advise and monitor the establishment and management of provisions for the dismantling of nuclear power plants and the management of irradiated fissile material. This power of opinion and control concerns the existence, sufficiency and availability of provisions. I have full confidence in the quality of this work. You are asking me whether the law of 11 April 2003 should evolve and, if so, be strengthened. I will not teach you anything by telling you that nuclear supplies must be used for many decades after the nuclear phase-out. Since 2003, the economic world has not remained immobile and will continue to evolve in the years to come. Like my predecessors, I am very close to developments in the sector and, like you, I do not wish to base part of these costs on the Belgian taxpayer. Before deciding on a possible change and the nature of the legal framework to be considered, it is important to bear in mind that this could not be done without maintaining a sufficient level of legal certainty on the date of exit from nuclear power. You are aware that the Parliament's decision to extend Doel 1 and Doel 2 did not have an impact on the date of the nuclear release in Belgium. It is always the same date: 2025. This date has remained the same since 2003. This legal stability in the time of the date of nuclear release has two indirect positive effects. Firstly, it has enabled the Commission for Nuclear Supplies to carry out its work calmly for years on the basis of industrial scenarios for the management of scrapping waste and fissile material irradiated and validated by the competent Belgian institutions. Secondly, it allows time to reflect on the best legal framework for managing post-phase out best in the management of radioactive waste and irradiated fissile material. In the wake of the transposition of the European Directive 2011/70 into Belgian law, the previous government set up a working group led by my administration whose aim is to assess the whole framework of the Belgian nuclear law, to propose by theme the priority improvements of our legal framework. This working group brings together experts from my administration, ONDRAF, Synatom and AFCN. This is, of course, a work in progress. You realize that this substantive work is important in the context of the Belgian phase-out of nuclear power. I look forward to the preliminary report with the themes identified as priorities in June 2016.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u221	Minister, this answer is important and interesting.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u222	But what irritated you was Doel 1 and Doel 2. Apart from that, everything is fine!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u223	I'm going over the trait of humor. Compared to Germany, the rapid release of nuclear power is spread and set at 2022, while at home it is postponed to take place between 2022 and 2025. The most important thing is that you will notify us when the final study is carried out in Germany. At this point, I will come back with this kind of thinking because the financing of nuclear waste management is for tens, hundreds or even thousands of years. I do not question you at all, but when we read the report of this committee, whose role is fundamental, we find that it is verifying the availability of EUR 8 billion.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u224	I believe that, for the time being, it is about EUR 7 billion.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u225	This is exactly EUR 7.6 billion. Still, it is a 20-page report that includes only a table with figures. That kind of relationship is pretty hallucinating. I invite you to read it so that we can discuss the quality, importance and quantity of the information given in it at a later stage. For my part, I believe that we can ask ourselves questions about the real analysis that is being carried out there. All of this is related to a possible evolution of the legal structure of Electrabel. I am thinking here of the Bianca project, etc. However, it is my intention to question you when the German study is completed and we have been able to read about it. Indeed, the protective measures taken by the Germans with regard to the evolution of E.ON's structure must challenge us and help us to take a position as to whether or not the Belgian structure has evolved.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u226	Question No 6582 by Mrs Lalieux is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u227	Mr President, Madam Minister, La Libre Belgique and L'Echo of 30 June allude to the fact that ENGIE is considering the return of Electrabel to the stock market. It was discussed again on 15 July and in the article of L'Echo, it is specified that gas would no longer be part of the Benelux entity. There have been some clarifications in the days following this information. Have you, in any way, been informed or involved in discussions about this project, if only indirectly? For example, as part of your discussions and negotiations on the extension of Doel 1 and Doel 2 or through a return from your Prime Minister, who has been informed. We know that Gérard Mestrallet informed the Prime Minister. I assume the latter has informed you of that, too. It would seem normal for the Minister of Energy to be informed if the Prime Minister is. Have you confirmed what is put forward as a probable hypothesis in the newspapers? What do you think of such a project? What about the guarantees in relation to the provisions? Synatom is a wholly owned subsidiary of Electrobel. What's going on with her? Like Germany, are you protecting yourself against risk or are you going to let it happen?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u228	Mr President, I have been informed of this project. To the best of my knowledge, no final decision has been taken by the ENGIE Board of Directors, which has already restructured its organisation by removing the organisation by industry to favour a country/geographical area approach. ENGIE has indicated to me that I want to continue its activities in Belgium within the framework of a Belgian anchor, its intention being to continue research and innovation activities in the field of energy and energy efficiency, cities of tomorrow and green mobility. There is an increasing convergence between the sectors of energy producers and service. It is in this context that she wants to reconfigure herself. A combination of these two activities in a single publicly traded company makes sense. Of course, in this context and in this configuration, I am all the more attentive to the issue of provisions. I've been paying attention to it before because it's fundamental. This is a huge financial burden. I said that in the previous answer. But here, in view of the movements that may arise at the level of reconfiguration of this major international group, I am all the more attentive to it. ENGIE employs more than 18,000 employees in Belgium and it is important that it continues to recruit Belgian staff with internationally recognised skills and expertise. It must also give itself the means to develop in the territory it has chosen for this new reconfiguration, the Benelux. I will ensure that any reorganization of ENGIE is carried out with such an objective and that Electrabel remains a solid society capable of fulfilling its commitments and of playing its economic and social role in our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u229	Thank you for your answer that I found firm on this aspect. I think it will be a consolidation of the legal framework. We will have the opportunity to talk about it again when the projects are a little more advanced. I also note that you have been informed, so you have information about the potential evolution or at least the fact that the reflection is under way at ENGIE. When you say that ENGIE is considering maintaining an industrial tool for developing energy efficiency, renewable energy, etc. in Belgium, it's so much better. But there is still the other branch, that of waste, not just nuclear waste. I hope, Madam Minister, and you have not spoken on this aspect, that we will not return to a construction of the '80s and '90s with public or para-public shareholders who in fact, in an incestuous marriage, prevent the development of a modern energy policy in our territory. The cross-interests of each other mean that prices are high, that there is a kind of public monopoly and that nuclear is maintained as the dominant energy that prevents the development of all others. These are fears of a return to the past that I am expressing, even though I have heard the guarantees you give on the 'provisions' side. I believe that this will have to be achieved by strengthening the legislative framework. On the other side, I have already told you of my fears, my reluctance. I guess we'll have a chance to talk about it again.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u230	Questions Nos 6593 and 6650 by Mrs Lalieux were postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u231	Minister, with the introduction of the safety net mechanism, the previous federal government had a clear objective, namely to prevent energy prices above the average price of neighbouring countries, both for individuals and for SMEs. In accordance with Article 1 of the Royal Decree of 19 December 2014, the safety net mechanism is extended for a further period of three years, until 31 December 2017 inclusive. Article 3 of the Royal Decree provides that the CREG must prepare an evaluation report no later than three months before 31 December 2015. This CREG report has just been published. In this report, CREG states that: "Since its establishment on 1 January 2013, the safety net mechanism has clearly contributed to increasing transparency in the energy market. The availability of relevant information has increased considerably for both supply and demand players." The CREG insists that it "considers in the possible premature termination of the safety net mechanism a real danger of reducing this transparency, in particular as a result of a possible return to the use of indexing parameters unrelated to the wholesale electricity and gas markets." Minister, do you share these conclusions from the CREG report? Are you considering extending the safety net beyond 2017 in view of the value of this mechanism? Will you implement the recommendations made by CREG in this report?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u232	Mr President, CREG and the NBB submitted a report at the end of September 2015 on the application of the safety net mechanism since 1 January 2013. It is undeniable that the safety net has played a role in improving transparency of the variable prices of convenience energy for residential customers and SMEs. Today, the permissible indexing parameters reduce the volatility of retail prices relative to wholesale prices. For example, commodity prices are at the same level as in neighbouring countries. The safety net was extended for a period of three years by Royal Decree of 19 December 2014. This three-year extension was based on three elements. First, the current law did not allow for a shorter extension, in accordance with the government agreement, and an amendment to the law was not possible until December 31, 2014. Second, the safety net mechanism actually operated for only two consecutive years, 2013 and 2014, the year 2012 being that of freezing indexation upwards in the indexation of variable energy prices. It was therefore important to be able to assess the safety net over a period of three years, which was initially considered for the implementation of the mechanism. Third, the government agreement provides for the government to take note of the report of the National Bank and the CREG on the safety net for energy prices. It will take the initiative to extend the current interim scheme for one year and will abandon it no later than 31 December 2017. In accordance with the Government Agreement, the safety net will not be maintained as an ex ante monitoring mechanism for variable energy prices beyond 31 December 2017. In the same vein and in accordance with the notification of the Council of Ministers of 11 December 2014, an in-depth reflection will be carried out during 2015 on the characteristics of the safety net and its further application. This review may lead to a proposal for a legislative amendment. This includes an assessment of the scheme in view of the reality of market conditions and is based on the 2015 BNB and CREG studies. This analysis is under way in my cabinet and will soon be on the agenda of the Council of Ministers. It follows from studies that the important thing is to maintain a link between wholesale and retail prices to limit volatility and the potential impact on inflation. In addition, monitoring to continue to assess price developments, as proposed by CREG and the BNB, seems to me appropriate. However, it is premature at this stage to announce the direction chosen by the government and myself, since I am studying this. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that studies do not show that it is imperative to maintain the mechanism of ex ante control of variable prices in order to ensure adequate protection for residential customers and SMEs. I would also like to stress that my concern is now more global, since convenience accounts for only 30 % of the energy bill and the safety net has played its part properly for this 30 %. It is now important to reflect more comprehensively on prices as a whole and on other aspects of the energy bill. This reflection is under way through several channels: the development of the energy vision and the energy pact with the Regions, the energy standard, and the study currently being carried out by CREG on energy prices for large industrial consumers. My office does not disappoint representatives of the sector who come to explain to me that the work must now focus on anything other than convenience and that this is what causes them the biggest concerns in terms of margin and in terms of administrative work and market visibility.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic242x.u233	Minister, I understand your concerns, those of the government and those of the operators. However, the safety net did not have a negative impact on the assembly, it allowed for more transparency. If it is not renewed as such, a similar mechanism could be considered.
