ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic246x.u1	On this morning's agenda questions are addressed to the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration. The Secretary of State has informed us that his time is limited to 12 noon.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic246x.u2	Mr President, Secretary of State, on 7 July last, the European Court of Human Rights condemned Belgium for having deprived a Serbian family of asylum seekers of reception, which was left on the street in conditions of extreme deprivation for a month before being finally sent back to his country. The Court held that this was inhuman and degrading treatment and ordered Belgium to compensate the applicants. The Court also held that the action brought by these asylum-seekers before the Conseil du Litigieux des Étrangers (CEC) to challenge a transfer decision known as "Dublin" was not an effective remedy since it was not suspensive of its own right. Fedasil has just recently taken an instruction on the so-called "Dublin" asylum seekers, in which it appears that asylum seekers who have been issued an order to leave the territory on the basis of the Dublin procedure can only be granted reception on the condition that they obtain an extension of that order to leave the territory from the Foreigners' Office. However, in this recent judgment, the Court considers, on the one hand, that until they have been the subject of a final decision (so long as the application to the CEC is not closed), applicants for asylum under Dublin procedure must be subject to special protection - see § 153 et seq. of the judgment. On the other hand, it notes that recourse to the EAC is not an effective remedy "in the sense of a remedy which is both suspensive in its own right and allows for a prompt and effective examination of the grounds for the violation of Article 3 of the Convention". Mr Secretary of State, in order to enable Belgian practice and legislation to comply with the obligations imposed by the European Convention on Human Rights, do you intend to instruct Fedasil to ensure that asylum seekers who lodge an appeal against a transfer decision known as "Dublin" are not deprived of their reception until such time as this appeal is finally decided by the Council of the Litigation of Foreigners? Do you intend to amend the Act on Access to the Territory, Residence, Establishment and Deportation of Aliens of 15 December 1980 so that an appeal of full suspensive effect can be made available to asylum seekers who contest a transfer decision known as "Dublin"?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic246x.u3	Mr Hellings, the decision to terminate the material aid upon expiry of the period specified in the order to leave the territory is in accordance with Article 6 of the Law on the Reception of Asylum Seekers and Certain Other Categories of Foreigners of 12 January 2007. "Dublin" asylum seekers continue to have a right to reception, but this right to reception is borne by another Member State of the European Union. Referral to another country is not a matter of substance, except in very special circumstances, such as inhuman or degrading treatment contrary to article 3 of the European Convention on Human Rights. If asylum seekers do not want to follow up on the invitation to visit the Member State responsible for their asylum application, they may lose the material assistance to which they are entitled. It should also be recalled that the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights was given in circumstances specific to the applicants in V. M. et al. v. Belgium, the findings of which are not automatically transferable. Belgian practice and legislation do not constitute a violation of the obligations of the European Convention on Human Rights. Since the amendment made by the Act of 10 April 2014, an appeal in extreme urgency with suspensive effect can be brought against such a decision when the refoulement becomes imminent. The decision of the European Court concerns a situation prior to this amendment of the law. It is therefore no longer necessary to adapt it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic246x.u4	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your explanation. I did not know that the law of April 2014 had been amended. We'll follow the file closely.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic246x.u5	Mr Secretary of State, my question concerns an old very and has been asked repeatedly, even in the previous legislature. The aim is to create a separate tax statute for asylum seekers. At present, it is still possible for asylum seekers, through certain tax legislation, to obtain tax refunds in some cases, despite the fact that they have not delivered benefits. This is the case, among other things, with dependent children. In fact, I have seen in practice that, despite the fact that they were housed in the Little Castle, some suddenly had documents of service cheques, as if they were cleaning up in the Little Castle. In any case, they will receive a refund. Your predecessor, Mrs De Block, has repeatedly said that this raises problems, because sometimes these people suddenly received more than EUR 1 200 to EUR 1 500 in tax credit, which, of course, they find difficult to deal with in those circumstances. At the time, I questioned the Home Secretary, Mrs Milquet, about this, but she refused to do anything about it. What's the problem now? The problem is that asylum seekers are registered, like every person in our country, and automatically receive a national register number. Someone who gets a national register number is, of course, subject to tax under tax legislation, and that is where the problem lies. During the summer holidays, because my question was put a while ago, the Minister of Finance stated that he wants to tackle and solve this problem. I would, of course, like to know how he intends to deal with this in concrete terms, together with you and the Minister of the Interior. Every year, we make EUR 10 to 12 million available to asylum seekers, who are not actually entitled to do so. This is shown by the figures I had calculated last year. We owe it to the people who are really entitled to such tax refunds, to the Belgians, to provide clarity. Mr Secretary of State, how will you resolve this problem, together with Ministers Van Overtveldt and Jambon?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic246x.u6	Mr President, Mr Van Biesen, we are working on this, because yesterday I had contact with Minister Van Overtveldt on this matter by telephone. The aim is to get this dossier through before the end of the year, with the programme law. So it's worn out and that wasn't easy. It is mainly in the hands of Finance, because it is a financial matter, but I myself remain constantly informed. In the coming weeks or months we will be coming to Parliament with this.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic246x.u7	Mr Secretary of State, do I understand that the slopes are being walked not through the National Register, but through separate legislation, which would not provide for restitution in specific cases?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic246x.u8	Mr Van Biesen, I am not a tax expert like you, but that is how I understood it, although I hope you will not quote me on that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic246x.u9	Mr Secretary of State, I think that I will have to speak again with the Minister of Finance, because unequal treatment of equal taxpayers is obviously not possible. We must therefore be careful not to undermine the fundamental principle of equality, because tax legislation is very clear on this issue. In my view, it can only be solved by setting up a separate number in the National Register which is not covered by the system of taxable persons. I would like to warn you again.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic246x.u10	Mr Secretary of State, at the beginning of July Michèle Coninsx, the director of Eurojust, warned us that smugglers not only send refugees with boats to Europe, but also IS fighters. In the meantime, a lot has been discussed and communicated on this subject. Mr Secretary of State, can you confirm or confirm that statement? If it is true, do you have any idea how many IS fighters enter Europe and Belgium in that way?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic246x.u11	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, our country will therefore welcome thousands of migrants this year alone, forced and forced. Since the end of September, reports have confirmed the fears of the People's Party. Indeed, there are Muslim extremists among migrants who, in the vast majority, are not Syrians. Italy has already announced that it has arrested more than 40 jihadist candidates or former supporters, identified among the migrants present on its soil. Let me give you some testimonials gathered by the press in Germany, where journalists do a real investigative job. Indeed, Christians fleeing the war in Syria must fear for their lives in reception centres in Germany. They are insulted, abused, assaulted and threatened with death by radical Muslims. The newspaper Die Welt has thus compiled some testimonies in its Welt Am Sonntag weekend edition. I give you some of them; I quote: "I thought I could live my religion freely here but if I say that I am a Christian in this reception centre, I am threatened with death," says a Christian who came from Iraq and was in a reception centre near Brandenburg, in the Berlin area, accompanied by Syrian Sunnis. Radical Muslims make the law. Christians no longer dare to prepare their meals in common kitchens. He who does not pray five times a day towards Mecca is ill-treated. Crosses worn around the neck are prohibited. After a riot and 14 wounded in Kassel and, in order to avoid tragedies, the German police wanted to separate the refugees according to their religious belief. This type of problem is also beginning to affect the Belgian reception centres where fighting between Shiites and Sunni or between Afghans and Iraqis, as in Florennes, erupts. Mr. Secretary of State, you were there. When these extremists have refugee status in Belgium or Europe, will they become democratic and pluralistic lambs and will Christians have to hide? A network of fake documents has just been dismantled at home. This confirms that people really want to enter our territory without respecting the procedures, with probably other intentions than to flee from war or dictatorship. By not opposing European policy, we favour not only organised crime networks in the area of trafficking in human beings but also the emergence of international crime in the area of false identity documents. Mr Secretary of State, what measures do you intend to take with regard to persons with belligerent behaviour in the centres? How, together with the Minister of the Interior, do you intend to ensure the security of citizens in our territory effectively, because once in nature, we will again be told that the State Security does not have the means to be really proactive in this matter?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic246x.u12	Mr Secretary of State, I have almost the same questions as Mr Carcaci. I am, of course, very curious about the answer to the first question, about the IS fighters who would enter our country by boats. I tabled the question on radicalisation in asylum centres during the recess. Afterwards there was a lot of communication about this, especially by the German-speaking media and the German press. The question is really very simple: have we actually had to deal with radicalisation here in the asylum centres? If so, what is the approach? How do we deal with this?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic246x.u13	I think it is a very important question which concerns many of our citizens. It is therefore a good thing that I dot the i. Is this about ISIS fighters? Is this about terrorists? Who is it about, anyway? Are there any radical elements in this? Are they salafists? To what extent have they been influenced by radical currents within Islam? Together with Minister Jambon I am making a big tour, also in Limburg. If we get somewhere, those are the questions that mayors ask so they can give their residents good answers. There is, of course, concern and I understand it. I'd like to mention a few things. Firstly, Michèle Coninsx, who has been in charge of Eurojust since 2012, did indeed declare to Associated Press on 7 June 2015 that the boats that transport immigrants across the Mediterranean would also transport fighters from the Islamic State. Since the investigations are still ongoing, she cannot release all the information. However, she stated that there is not yet a complete view of the potential problems that the infiltration of these Islamic fighters could cause from the point of view of European legislation. She has indicated that the Islamic State uses the proceeds of smuggling to finance terrorism. She said: "The situation is serious because we see clearly that this smuggling is used to finance terrorism and sometimes also to travel back and forth from members of the Islamic State. I spoke to Mrs Coninsx privately about this. I would just like to say that at the moment, according to the screenings we have been doing for some time, there are no hits of persons linked to IS. None. We currently have more than 25 000 reception places. There will be intense screening and additional screening by the police. This was also said yesterday by the Minister of the Interior in Limburg to mayors Beke and Cologne. There is therefore neither a signal nor evidence that there would be persons who are linked to or are members of IS among the asylum seekers. You can understand that some of them, when they come here, will not use their real name. Even so, according to the information we receive from our own and foreign security services, there is currently no hit on people who commit atrocities in the name of IS. Secondly, radicalisation in the centres is another point. There is, on the one hand, the story of IS fighters among asylum seekers and, on the other hand, the question of radicalisation in the centres. Are there radical views, hate is being preached there? The answer to your question varies according to what you mean by radicalisation. It is important to make a distinction here. Given the great diversity among the inhabitants of our reception structures, it is possible that some residents have a rather rigid attitude, which can sometimes be problematic in living together in a collective reception structure. The reception centres have sufficient experience and resources to address any problems of this kind if they arise. It's been happening for years. Over 16 000 people have been staying in our shelters for years. We have a lot of field knowledge and expertise. However, if radicalisation is understood to mean radicalisation using violence in the name of some ideology or inciting individuals to violence which is undoubtedly what you are referring to, then, as far as I know, no mention has been made of such radical behavior or threats from the reception centres so far. If there are worrying cases of violent radicalisation in the centres, appropriate measures will and must be taken by the competent authorities, Justice and Home Affairs. This is done in consultation and cooperation with my services. Where possible, I will take additional administrative measures within my competence and within the legal framework. This is, among other things, on the basis of the law adopted by the majority, and perhaps also by you, in order to speed up the withdrawal of refugee status in the event of terrorist acts or serious violations of public order. These are important steps forward. This is fully in line with the relevant European directive, European legislation and European asylum and migration policy. It was the last law passed before the parliamentary recess in the Chamber. What are we still doing? On Monday, the Security of the State gave initial training to officials of the Foreign Office and the Commissioner-General for Refugees and the Stateless to detect elements of radicalisation even better than elements of salafism and elements of extremism. I would have liked to have attended that training. Several other training courses are planned. I will attend with Minister Jambon one and also give the introduction. It is very important, I believe, that the officials working on asylum files who do the screenings are very well involved with social media, for example. That's where it happens, of course. That's what all the reports on radicalisation say. It's happening on the global web. It still happens partly in mosques and so on, but less and less. It's happening more and more online. We have experts in the security of the State on this matter. They are now giving the training courses. That is a major step forward, I believe, to better detect elements of radicalisation where asylum seekers are concerned. In addition, I asked Fedasil to draw up a clear note on his safety screening, similar to the Netherlands. In the Netherlands, there is a strong commitment to first-line measures. It is there that the social assistants in the centres, who are busy with people every day, are best placed to judge where something goes wrong or where certain things go wrong. I'll get that note next week. On occasion, Mr Carcaci and Mr Metsu, we can discuss questions such as what we are doing, how radicalisation is detected, what signals are then picked up, and how it is followed further. Of course, it's just a start. A social worker reports it. Social assistants have certain principles and rules to which they must abide. Then the call goes to the board. He'll pass it on to the central board. Then it comes to me and to the Home Office. It is important that we define the chain further. There are already instructions, let us be clear, but I think it can be a lot more efficient. Over the next few weeks, we may be able to exchange views on how we can work on radicalisation. But please don't let us sound the alarm. There are no signs today that there are IS fighters in our centres and that there is tremendous radicalisation in our centres. I also read all the stories from Germany and Sweden, I do not know what to think. I'm sure that's true, but I can only talk about my services. That's where the signals are very clear. So let's nuance things a little bit. I say that to the mayors, and it's also what Joachim Coens, the mayor of Sijsele, said on the radio this morning. There's a big center with lots of Iraqis. All in all, things are going well and correctly and even better. The first few weeks are the hardest weeks, but the situation has improved. As politicians, we have an important duty to tell the people the truth about this. It is absolutely not useful to send incredibly ominous stories into the world. In any case, there is no basis for this, on the basis of the information we receive through the asylum centres and through our security and police services.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic246x.u14	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for the encouraging news and for the proposal to deepen and discuss the issue in the coming weeks. I am very curious to see Mrs Coninxs' final report, should there be any. I understand that screening for the 25 000 reception places is still ongoing. On occasion, I ask how many people are effectively screened. It is true that the speedy withdrawal of refugee status was approved by us, which I believe everyone can support. What you say about education and social media is very important. This morning we heard on the radio news that only one person surfs the global web and patrols it, but whether that's true is the next question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic246x.u15	Minister Jambon has confirmed that he will do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic246x.u16	Thanks to this training, there will undoubtedly be more people able to follow that up. After all, that is one of the tricky points. Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic246x.u17	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your comprehensive answer. However, it is true that at present nothing emerges, but they will not come with calicots announcing their intentions. I would be interested to know what administrative and other measures could be taken, if any, against hate-inciting individuals or in order to respond to even more serious events.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic246x.u18	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Jadin's 6084 will be postponed and, as I have just heard, will be dealt with by the Prime Minister next week.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic246x.u19	Mr Secretary of State, my question on European policy was tabled before the European summit, so I shall have to speak in the past tense. The European Commission intends to spread 120,000 asylum seekers across the different European countries. In addition to the efforts we are already making, we should be responsible for more than 4 500 additional refugees. You have rightly noted and confirmed that this can be done for us, if certain conditions are met, such as the strengthening of aid to Syria, the setting up of hotspots in southern Europe, particularly in Italy and Greece, and more efforts by the Eastern European countries in relation to the refugee crisis. The creation of hotspots in Italy and Greece has been under discussion for a long time and is now being addressed. However, we are still waiting for effective start-up unless you can tell me otherwise later. I hope that these conditions were very well discussed at the European summit. Mr Secretary of State, do you have any idea the timing of the effective opening of the hotspots? How will they work in practice? How much budget do Italy and Greece get for that? Do you therefore expect a reduction in the number of refugees to Western Europe and thus Belgium? In the past, before you were Secretary of State, you insisted very strongly on the need for reading mission agreements. Are they still a point that is discussed or negotiable? Are there any other measures that absolutely need to be implemented for you before we can fully agree to the additional inclusion of refugees within the framework of the distribution plan?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic246x.u20	Mrs. Smeyers, the hotspots are open. The first hotspot in Lampedusa is operational. The hotspot in Porto Empedolce in Sicily is also developed and operational. There is also an expert from the CGVS present to provide support. In Greece there is also a hotspot open on Lesbos. The answer is no longer entirely up-to-date, but I will give you a more recent answer from the last few hours and days. The budget is, indeed, mostly European. The exact amount is not yet known, but it is in fact mainly staff from Frontex and EASO, i.e. from other Member States, which make the hotspots operational. The use of hotspots is mainly borne by European budgets. There is some discussion about this, but that is what was decided. I hope that this will lead to fewer refugees finding their way to Western Europe and Belgium. If the hotspots work, there are supposed to be fewer asylum questions in Brussels. The applications for asylum in Brussels do not come from our external borders. They are because the southern Schengen border is open. They go through four or five Schengen countries and come to Brussels to apply for asylum. If we can close the border there and deal with asylum applications at the external borders in the hotspot, there should be fewer applications in Brussels. Regarding the relocation, Belgium will do its fair share. If the hotspots didn't lead to fewer asylum applications with us, then it all makes little sense. Then this is a battle in the water. The reading mission agreements remain very important. I went to Morocco, Tunisia and Turkey together with Minister Jambon and Minister Vandeput. We have been able to move forward in that direction. I'm gonna keep hammering on that. It is the second time in a year that Minister Jambon and I have gone there. Dat is never seen. I just want to say that we are working very hard on this. At European level, too, we are trying to keep the pressure on the Readmission Agreements as high as possible. That is why there is also a European summit in La Valetta, with all African leaders, to conclude readmission agreements. I have recently seen Mali's Minister for Foreign Affairs, a not insignificant country, where cooperation for the read mission agreements is difficult. I'm constantly working on the diplomatic story. I can't go to Koksijde because I see the ambassador of Iraq this afternoon. It's important that I talk to him about reading mission. That's a problem, too. They refuse to allow forced removals. They're only voluntary. Fortunately, there are many voluntary removals. We continue to work on read mission step by step, but that is a long-term process. This has been a long-term process for 15 years, the mandate of the European Union to conclude a read mission agreement with Morocco dates back to 2001 and there is still none. The positions of the Belgian Government are the right ones, and we say that there must be a global approach. We must better monitor these borders and ensure that asylum applications are dealt with at the external border. We must help these countries at the external border to the maximum, financially and in terms of staff and expertise, because they cannot do this alone. In addition, people need to be properly distributed so that everyone does their fair share. Those who get a no must return, there must be readmission agreements. So there must be a proper registration of everyone at the external border. We have made progress in this area, but it is not yet what it should be. However, progress is being made and it is already good that progress is being made at European level, because it is suddenly happening very quickly and it is acute. There was talk of a European summit, since then there have been two others, almost every month there is a European summit of Heads of Government or a meeting of the European Council on this subject. It is moving in the right direction, step by step, and we continue to work on it day and night.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic246x.u21	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, my question of whether these hotspots will be useful was rather a rhetorical question, and I hope it will be with you. It is a pity that we have had to set this up in order to ensure that the Dublin Convention is truly respected. I hope that this will happen now, that the registration of asylum seekers will finally take place in Greece and Italy. In the past this was not the case and Italy and Greece looked the other way and allowed the refugees to flow to Belgium, Germany, the Netherlands, France and other Western European countries. I hope the hotspots are effective. This will become clear in the next few days and weeks. With regard to the readmission agreements, I can only wish you luck. I know this is and will be very difficult. It was also agreed in the government. As you said, it is something that has been on the agenda for 15 years and has been trying to reach it for 15 years, especially with Morocco. You will meet the ambassador of Iraq, I can only wish you every success and advise you not to deviate from your line, but I am confident in that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic246x.u22	Mr Secretary of State, refugees who wish to apply for asylum in our country must, of course, register with the DVZ. There is currently a maximum of 250 refugees per day. Yet we see daily that there are many more people joining us. People sometimes have to wait days before they're registered. In the meantime, you have organized a kind of pre-care facility and have the Maximilian park cleared out. You also announced last week that there would be no queues and that the DVZ would be on speed. However, I read in the newspaper today that this is not being realized. I asked a number of questions about this about a month ago, and some of them are already dated. Why did you introduce the quota of 250 files a day? Based on what information is selected? Why 250 and who then meets these criteria? You were going to increase the manpower at the DVZ. I have also read that quite a few people have volunteered to transfer to this service, how far do you stand with this interpretation and the shifts? A final question is whether there is no possibility of keeping the DVZ's desks open on the weekends?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic246x.u23	Mrs De Coninck, the quota of 250 applications has been available since the move from the Foreign Office to WTC II in January 2009 and is a result of the capacity of the waiting room, based on the fire department report. Until recently, this capacity limitation did not cause any problems. In view of the very sharp increase in recent months, approximately 250 adults are currently admitted to the waiting room in order to make daily registration and registration. So it's about adults, the kids aren't added. So often there are 300 or 350 people. The recording of the identity data, the checking of the database, the checking of the person's knowledge, the registration in the waiting register, the taking of a photo, the taking and checking of fingerprints, the allocation of reception places, the taking of a lung photo for TB control, the issue of documents, etc... it is a whole administrative procedure that is being handled on that day. It doesn't go like in a doctor's waiting room or a dentist's, it takes an average of 20 minutes. This is a waiting room where one enters at 7:45 and often does not leave until 20:00 or 22:00. So it's something. In addition, there are some 60 or 70 children present in that waiting room every day, and of course there are also the asylum seekers who are invited for an interview. They'll come by appointment and they'll be in the waiting room. In recent weeks it has indeed happened that we have to ask people to come back. I read that in the paper, too. On Monday we didn't have any convocations, Tuesday we did, and today we did. There's one day pre-care in WTC III, 30 meters away. That pre-conception is run by The Red Cross and La Croix Rouge, which runs well. We're from a 10-day pre-care facility. That period has fallen sharply. In other words, in Germany it is 50 days and in the Netherlands it is a lot more. I therefore believe that we have worked to the maximum with the possibilities we have worked on. It's the first time ever that pre-care is provided. During the 2010 asylum crisis, you will remember, this was not foreseen. Then people also had to wait to register and lie down in Brussels-North, on a cold bench. I believe that we are trying to do as much as we can. I believe that this will help and also ensure that if the number of asylum applications is treated properly. Of course, the waiting room is just one story. There is, of course, also the fact that officials must be able to do their job correctly. I'm really gonna keep hammering on that. It all seems easy, but in practice it is not. I invite everyone to visit the asylum office. You've already been there, Mr. Chairman. Perhaps it would be interesting to invite some members of the committee to visit. A whole administrative procedure is being developed. There must be proper fingerprinting, which then goes into Eurodac. That must be done correctly, it is not always right from the first time. It's not easy. The name must be recorded and it may seem easy, but it is not. So it takes some time. An asylum application is not just something: it must be recorded correctly and correctly, because it is a very important issue, namely the application of international protection in a country that is unknown and that is not known. That is a very big step in human life, and that must be done correctly. We had days like yesterday with 200 applications or 180 applications the day before yesterday. Figures like 780 applications on a Monday like we've already had, we don't have any more. We've been at the level of early August for the last two weeks. We'll see what else comes. In winter, it's usually a lot quieter. Most of the arrivals do not necessarily want to go to Belgium at the moment, but to Germany. That country has a huge influx, it feels invited by the Prime Minister of Germany. Then the Maximilian Park. I did not have that cleared and I could not have that cleared, which falls within the remit of the mayor of Brussels. Honestly, I think if I asked, he'd do the opposite. So it's not like that. I don't have the authority to evacuate anything, since I'm not the mayor of the city of Brussels. Then registration at the weekend. On the weekends, we do asylum interviews. We've also got reinforcements coming in. Through the Rosetta Jobs Plan, we recruited around 28 people, many of whom started on the asylum service. They do their job fantastic, and that should be said. Unfortunately, these are not long-term contracts, but we will see if we can do something about them. The quality of these people and of their work is really high, the Foreign Affairs Office is very satisfied with it. We're looking into whether we can offer these people something structuralally, so they can continue to work at our organization. So the interviews do happen on the weekends. Signing up at the weekend would create practical problems that are not soluble in the short term. There should be an almost complete occupation of the Asylum Executive Board in order to handle a reasonable number of registrations. Interpreters should be called to work on weekends. Fedasil must also be present for the allocations. The staffing at the reception centres should be increased over the weekend in order to accommodate the people arriving. A permanence should also be provided for VRGT's doctors and FARES for the control of pulmonary photos on TB. The National Register is not always available during the weekend which is essential for the registration of an asylum seeker. In other words, it is absolutely not easy to get all this done. That's not why we're doing this. Finally, if all these problems are resolved, then everything that comes after must be taken into account. Everyone who has his asylum application registered gets bed, bath and bread the same day. This is sometimes very late at night, but they get it the same day. On some days 250 new places must therefore be created. For Fedasil this really is the absolute maximum. It's been pumping or drowning for three months. We're getting through this right now. So far, it's always worked. But registering 500 or 780 refugees means that those people must be taken care of that same day. That capacity is simply not available. At that point, people would have to work with non-allocations and then we'd end up in the story of 2010. These people then started knocking on the door at the OCMW of the city of Brussels, which of course couldn't handle it either. The persons concerned then went to the labour court in Brussels, which awarded them a penalty payment of EUR 250 per day per family member because they were not assigned a place. This caused a huge suction effect. In 2010 it was decided in panic to open hotels. This led to the emergence of more people and, in the long run, half of the Balkans were here in Brussels and it became even worse. That was actually a downward spiral. We must do everything we can to avoid these non-allocations, because then I think we will really run into the wall. We are trying to open up a maximum number of places, to ensure that the pre-care system is functioning correctly and to guarantee the flow of asylum files. The number of asylum files handled by the CGVS in the first two weeks of October is 25% higher than in the first two weeks of September. This week additional staff starts working at both the DVZ and the CGVS. We are trying to stay one step ahead of the crisis. So far, so good. We're doing everything we can. I also welcome the parliamentary debate on the correct way in which this is done. We'll see where we land. If I am asked how many more people will come, I have no answer. We can only try to get the situation in the South European order. That is the big problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic246x.u24	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your detailed reply. The opening of a qualitative pre-care facility was indeed extremely important to ensure that people did not have to sleep on the streets or pass through the scenario of the labour court. However, we must continue to strive to clarify people as quickly as possible and to ensure that the procedure is conducted as quickly as possible. I think it is a good idea to do weekend interviews, hence the question of keeping the windows open during the weekend, but apparently there are quite a few practical problems there. As far as the difficulty of drawing up the right dossiers is concerned, I have a lot of experience in that sector. I am glad that you realise that social work, because it has to do with it in the end, is not always as obvious as it is often suggested quite populist and simple. I didn't say you wanted to make the Maximilian park disappear, but there is a mayor in this country who said this had to happen. Now I hear this was because it certainly wouldn't close. Mrs. Onkelinx will be pleased that you are able to appreciate her Rosetta plan to recruit people. However, it is important to consider how to provide legal certainty for these people. The most important thing I remember is that at the beginning of the refugee crisis people used the words tsunami, flooded and flooded, but now I see that it is becoming a manageable stream. I am not saying that there are few, but if we compare it with the figures for the year 2000, we can process it properly if we want to.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic246x.u25	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Monica De Coninck converted 6029 into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic246x.u26	Mr President, Secretary of State, while the humanitarian tragedies are piling up, refugees continue to flow strongly in Europe. For the first six months the DVZ recorded 12 133 applications and it continues to rise. In addition to major food, drinking water and sanitation needs, many of them also face serious health problems, often due to a day-long journey. This will not improve in the future, given the worse weather conditions that are coming. The rain makes a lot of people sick faster. Among these are many women, including pregnant women, and children. Mr Secretary of State, are the candidate refugees informed about their right to urgent medical assistance? How often is this called upon? How many times is it denied? Are all the children of candidate refugees medically examined in the registration?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic246x.u27	Mr President, Mrs De Coninck, the DVZ recorded a record of 5 512 asylum applications for the month of September, creating queues of candidate asylum seekers at the DVZ. Vulnerable persons are always treated as a priority in these queues, in the sense that they can apply immediately for asylum and that they are immediately received at the reception centre of Fedasil. This happens anyway if there are more than 250 people in the queues. There are actually two queues and in one are families with children, older people and people in wheelchairs, and they are always let in first. It's often single men who have to go to pre-care. When asylum seekers arrive in the reception centres, they will receive a medical intake and the first care will be administered medically. Every asylum seeker who has applied for asylum has so far been offered a place of refuge. If the asylum seeker refuses the place of refuge, he is only entitled to urgent medical assistance. Fedasil is not competent for persons who have not yet applied for asylum. This power shall start from the date of registration of the application for asylum. Medical assistance is provided in accordance with Article 23 et seq. of the Reception Act. Fedasiel provides an information brochure in different languages. Upon arrival in the assigned reception structure, the asylum seeker will receive this information brochure. You will have noticed that on your visit to the asylum centre. They are ready and distributed directly to newcomers. Medical guidance is also provided for the so-called no-show asylum seekers. This means those asylum seekers who choose not to go to the assigned reception structure or who voluntarily leave the reception structure or who wait outside the reception centre for a decision to consider their asylum application. No, no one's being medically examined at the DVZ registration. There's only a lung photo taken for a TB check. That is of course also a medical examination, but the thorough medical examination is done at the dispatching of Fedasil, by the medical staff, including children. There is an extensive medical intake when one arrives at the shelter. Each care centre must be equipped with a medical service with a doctor and a nurse.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic246x.u28	Thank you for your reply, Mr Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic246x.u29	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, after the asylum seekers have arrived and applied, they may or may not be granted refugee status, but then work will begin. I've said that a few times. In reality, the OCMW's will in particular be burdened more heavily, mainly to guide people to a home, but also to meet other needs such as language lessons. Moreover, there are quite a few people with psychological problems, because they often come from war zone and have an exhausting journey behind them. So they also need medical care. That certainly applies to mothers and children. Local authorities and local actors play an important role in this. Hence my question as to what plans you have discussed with the Länder. To what extent are the administrations concerned aware of your policy? Are the different administrations working together on the levels? Is there an exchange of data? I often hear you say, especially by the Ministers of the Länder, that there is a lot of consultation going on. I am also sure that you have a great deal of personal consultation with a number of ministers, but I do not know to what extent, after consultation, orders are given to the administrations to take action. I am talking about federal, Flemish, Walloon, Brussels as well as local administrations. Has the government informed all municipalities how many reception points they are expected to receive in the context of an intra-Belgian distribution? You have made a voluntary appeal and say that this must be done gradually. However, if one wants to be able to follow, everyone will have to be called upon. Are the municipalities which have or had LOIs in their territory closed some of them to reactivate them or possibly create new ones? To what extent does the government provide for compensation for the municipalities? Is any equivalent living wages paid also taken into account? Do you also take into account the number of places that the municipality is willing to open if you take additional initiatives? Does the government provide compensation for the municipalities for the increase in the number of benefits in urgent medical care? Has the government informed all OMCWs of how many refugee recognitions it expects to grant this year?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic246x.u30	Mrs De Coninck, it goes without saying that the various administrations are aware of this. Co-operation is carried out with the various administrations and relevant information is exchanged. There is also consultation with the Borsus cabinet and with the associations concerned for cities and municipalities, the VVSG, the VSGB and the UVCW. There has also been consultation with all the offices of the Communities responsible for education. Every month they will receive an update of the situation on the ground. Specific consultations on unaccompanied minors with the various competent Communities have also taken place on a number of occasions. The call for the creation of additional LOI places concerns a voluntary creation of places. There are therefore no specific expectations for a defined number of places per municipality. The call was very successful, by the way. There are 205 OCMWFs in contact with Fedasil to open new reception places in LOI for a total of 1 465 places, of which 400 are already operational. So we are almost at 1 600 places, which is really good news. OMCWs which have recently reduced their number of LOIs are particularly addressed as they may be made available in a relatively short period of time. There is a question about Mrs Temmerman's situation in Ghent. There is no provision for additional compensation for the municipalities for an increase in the number of wage-earners. The system whereby municipalities which have a reception centre on their territory receive an allowance per asylum seeker is, of course, still applicable. No compensation is provided for increases in the number of emergency medical services. Cooperation with the Borsus cabinet is proceeding very well. The Borsus cabinet is always aware of all developments and measures taken in relation to reception and asylum and the latest state of affairs on asylum and influx, through the task force organised by my cabinet every week at 9 a.m. every Thursday at 9 a.m. During this consultation, the Borsus cabinet is always getting the latest information on the degree of recognition of asylum seekers. It is thus kept up to date in real time.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic246x.u31	Mr Secretary of State, I didn't want to question the federal administrations so much. After all, I am getting signals that, especially in Flanders, the various administrations that should be involved in this are not always given the task of concretely working on it. Perhaps you should discuss this with your fellow Members. Furthermore, it is noted that OCMWFs can respond very quickly and adequately to certain questions, hence my constant concern about the abolition of OCMWFs in the future. We should think about that twice, or even three times.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic246x.u32	The abolition of the OCMWFs is not a federal competence. I know the debate, but the decision was taken at the level of the Länder, so let us not have that debate here. It is also the case that this is on the agenda of the Consultative Committee. It's being discussed there. The agenda items shall be discussed in the official bodies. There is also a lot of consultation and lists and influx are shared. I think this is going the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic246x.u33	Questions Nos 6033 and 6034 by Mrs De Coninck are converted into written questions. Question No 5, by Mr De Gucht Mrs Smeyers' 6096 will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic246x.u34	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, the enormous increase in the number of refugees who wish to apply for asylum in our country has been going on for several weeks. This increase in the number of applications also means, of course, an increase in the workload of the Commissioner-General for Refugees and the Stateless, who must deal with the asylum procedure. The recognition rate for Syrians is still very high, 97% if I am not mistaken. The figure for Iraqis and Afghans is 50%, which means that 50% of these population groups also get a negative decision and have to return. On 5 September, after the Council of Ministers, you announced that you had requested and received the approval, so I now know how to provide more resources for the Foreign Affairs Office. This also allowed you to increase the reception capacity of the closed centres of the Foreign Office from 552 to 605 places and to recruit 97 additional staff. That is very good in the context of that return following a negative decision, something on which you and this government have been strongly engaged from day one. It is important that this end of a good migration policy, which is a good return policy, is not lost in this unprecedented influx of asylum seekers. In your policy paper, you also hoped to be able to ensure that each asylum application could be individually examined and answered within a maximum of six months. What is the current state of play with regard to that average lead time? I know Mrs. De Coninck asked for it, too. Perhaps the questions should be linked a little more, although I do not want to get involved in the work of the committee secretariat. Given the increase in applications, will it be possible to maintain that lead time in the coming months and to deal with asylum applications all in the foreseeable future? Are any additional measures taken or planned to keep the lead time as short as possible?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic246x.u35	Mr President, Mrs Smeyers, as in a number of other countries in the EU, in particular Germany, Austria, Sweden, the Netherlands and Finland, the working stock of the administrations concerned has increased considerably in the short term, not to say exploded. At present, the increase is strongest in the DVZ and even less in the CGVS, but as the flow from the DVZ will increase, the working stock will also increase significantly in the Commissioner for Refugees and the Stateless. This will inevitably lead to an increase in the average lead time, and this is the case with any significant increase in asylum applications, not only in Belgium, but also in all other countries facing a similar phenomenon. With the government, we reacted very quickly, firstly by making additional resources available to the authorities concerned, both to the DVD and to the CGVS, and secondly, by examining with the authorities concerned how their output can be increased as much as possible in the shortest possible time. I have just said that the CGVS dealt with 25% more cases in the first two weeks of October than in the first two weeks of September. This week there will be additional staff, both at the CGVS and at the DVZ. I am aware that additional staff is not immediately operational. Training at the CGVS as a protection officer normally lasts six months. We are trying to speed this up, but the work must of course also be carried out properly, so the staff must be properly trained. The recruitment of additional staff requires the launch of a vacancy, the organisation of a selection, the formation of staff, etc. All this takes a very long time, but we are trying to follow it as closely as possible, and I must say that we are working very well with the Minister for Civil Service, Mr Vandeput. The aim is to re-examine all new asylum applications in the shortest possible time and to establish a programme for reducing the backlog. The timing for achieving this objective depends very much on the evolution of the number of asylum applications, which is why this evolution is closely monitored. If necessary, additional measures will be taken, for example by allocating additional resources to the authorities concerned. That is necessary from the point of view of concern. Firstly, for the persons concerned, the asylum seekers, for whom it is particularly important to keep the uncertainty about a decision as short as possible. Secondly, to ensure the proper management of the asylum system, both as regards the asylum procedure and reception. Thirdly, for the budget, because by keeping the lead time as short as possible, the costs of reception can be reduced. You know what I always say about the latter, in particular that an investment of EUR 1 in the asylum services for rapid treatment saves EUR 10 in the reception, because it is extremely expensive.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic246x.u36	Mr Secretary of State, it is true that reception costs very much. The longer the asylum procedure takes, the longer people have to stay in care and the more difficult a return becomes in the event of a negative decision. This has been taught by the past, when the lead time of an asylum procedure lasted for years. Now we speak of six months. Before the crisis, it was only three months. It is good that the lead time is kept as short as possible. I am pleased that the federal government recognises the need to make an effective effort to increase staff numbers to keep that procedure as short as possible so that return policy can be maintained as a final element of your migration policy. You are fortunate to know so well the Minister of Defence and Public Administration and the Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic246x.u37	There are two questions first raised by Mrs Cassart-Mailleux. Since Mrs Temmerman is due to attend the Conference of Presidents, we will then deal with her question immediately. Or do you wish to speak immediately, Mrs Temmerman?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic246x.u38	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, you have called on the cities and municipalities to provide additional shelter. Many cities and municipalities have responded to this. However, there are a number of problems with the provision of these places. You will not blame me for taking Ghent as an example because I know the situation there best. I hope, however, that this is not an example for all other cities. The Urban Reception Initiative in Ghent received the message two years ago that it should be closed. Afterwards, partly because of the refugee crisis, it was decided to keep it open, but it would be targeted more specifically at certain target groups. This has led to renovations and a reorganization of the staff. However, in view of the refugee crisis, Ghent thought it was possible to propose a number of other things, such as an empty state guard barracks. The city council considered, since this building is owned by the federal government, the Government of the Buildings, that it would have been fixed quickly and that asylum applicants could be received there. They're apartments, so there's very little that has to change in terms of decor. But nothing could be further from the truth. It seems very difficult to get this contract through. The city council of Ghent had to intercede in the long run between the Regie der Gebouwen and Fedasil on the lease contract. It appears that there are still problems with the installation costs. The city council then decided that it would resolve this with the OCMW and thus pay those costs itself. For the rent there would be an agreement now, but still that turns out to be a whole carousel. The city should pay to the Regie, who would then pass it on to Fedasil and the difference would be matched by City of Ghent. This is a Kafkaian situation, especially since the city service has to intercede between two federal services. I don't think this is a good way to work. Once again, I do not want to talk about this casuism, but I want to see how it can be solved in a better way. Mr Secretary of State, I have the following questions. What is the plan for the future for the Urban Reception Initiative? That would have been the message in the past that it would close. Which target groups will be met in the future? As far as the state guard station is concerned, I think you have clearly understood the questions. What about the rents? In what way will this be resolved? Many cities and municipalities receive offers from private individuals who say they have an outdoor residence or an extra room where people can be taken care of. Only cities and municipalities do not know how to deal with this. Can we not improve the framework for these places of refuge offered here and there? Finally, recognised refugees can choose their place of residence. We all know that most people will obviously go to cities, not only because there is the most framework, but also because they have friends or acquaintances there. It's normal for those people to go there. We are in favour of a distribution plan, as you know, also for the second shelter. But we know that they will go to the cities anyway. The question is whether you have already signed agreements with your colleague from the Flemish Government on the budgets for integration, reception and so on.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic246x.u39	Mrs. Temmerman, there are talks about the LOIS. If we can sign contracts, we are certainly prepared to do so. I believe that we can land in that respect. That's not a problem. With regard to the state guard station, I have to say that this is the first thing I hear of it. I'll be in touch today anyway. We work very well with the Government of the Buildings. What's going on there is not clear to me. I will discuss it this afternoon to see what we can improve or what still stands in the way of opening those places. I'm always glad I can open places. I need them every day. So I will certainly ask, you can count on that. I've also planned a visit to Ghent twice. I've already been there for a day of study on family reunification with Mrs. Bracke. We have also visited Drongen twice with the mayor, at the highway parking lot there. That was also very constructive. The mayor invited me to a meeting, but he fell ill at the time. We would then be discussing this with Mr De Clercq, but that has been postponed twice. It's a long story. It's been postponed twice on my side, but I'll definitely come. Whether they shoot at me or not, I'll come to Ghent anyway, you can be sure of that. With regard to the state guard station, I will ask the people in the cabinet what exactly the problem is, and we will try to resolve it this week. Hopefully today. In connection with Fedasil and small-scale initiatives, everything is welcome. Also in small municipalities. As an example, I give my own congregation. Fedasil organizes seminars, or better information days. OMCW managers and social assistants dealing with this problem can register and then get the explanation of how to open a LOI house, who to contact, what the minimum criteria are, what compensation is paid federally, whether to register or not. These practical things are important and must be done in a good way. This applies to all municipalities and is a great success. Many small municipalities are also applying for this, to know how to start doing so. We're really trying to do that right. There have now been three or four information days, per province or per two provinces. We will also continue to organise them, because once again, we need more places. We try to go on every offer of shelters, if that's all right. There are, of course, minimum criteria for reception. I have read that the Flemish Government has provided an additional budget for integration, a package on everything related to asylum influx. Of course, recognised refugees need integration courses, but I understand that additional budgets are foreseen for 2016. That is a question for the Flemish Government, of course. There is certainly consultation with the Flemish Prime Minister and with ministers of the Flemish Government, there is no doubt about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic246x.u40	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your answer. I understand that Fedasil will allocate the necessary resources for small-scale care to support cities and municipalities. But then what? Now the discussion is always about reception before or during the procedure, but the big problem comes of course afterwards. We are still one country and I am looking at it mainly from the point of view of the cities and municipalities that will be confronted with it. You're authorized to go where they're going. Shall we have a spread there? I know everyone's free to live wherever they want, but that's what happened in the past. There was a kind of distribution plan and there were similarities between the OCMWFs to whom an asylum seeker was assigned and with whom he or she was staying. That is where we need to evolve, because, of course, most will go to the big cities for the reasons listed. This is in your jurisdiction.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic246x.u41	I've read your bill, as I read all the legislative proposals that concern my subject matter. It is an interesting idea, but Mrs Lanjri said last week in plenary that it is very difficult to do so legally. Even the possibility of allowing only those who would receive support and have been recognised to move to a particular place, Mrs Lanjri fundamentally contests on the basis of legal arguments. I'll look into it further, but it's an interesting idea anyway. I'm trying to think further about all the ideas that are being presented. As far as the distribution of recognised refugees is concerned, it would, of course, be better for them to be spread a little more than they all go to two or three major cities. That is obvious, but there is apparently discussion as to whether such a spread can be operationalised on the basis of international and European legislation. There is nothing about this in the coalition agreement, but the asylum crisis was not a government agreement either. So proposals are always welcome.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic246x.u42	One cannot, of course, oblige people to live somewhere. Everyone will agree on this, but in the past they were assigned to OCMWFs. Then there was an agreement between the OCMW to which they were assigned and the OCMW of the place where they eventually stayed. It doesn't solve everything, but part of the framework is spread out.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic246x.u43	My municipality of Lubbeek is in the top 10 of the richest municipalities in Belgium and was dark blue for 40 years. During that period, the municipality rented buildings in Charleroi and Brussels and put everyone there. That's how the city got half the budget. If one did not collect these people in one's own municipality one only got 50 %. That was the scheme in 2000. So the asylum seekers were simply put away in the cities. That's where they stayed. They depended on Lubbeek's OCMW and they only got 50 percent, but that was enough: 50 percent we have enough, we have enough money, we do not need that money. That was the practice. Do we want to come to such situations? I'm really not for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic246x.u44	We should not repeat the mistakes of the past, but there are other examples, including from abroad. You don't live in the big city, Mr Secretary of State. I do. (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic246x.u45	Excuse me, we're the second largest city in Belgium. In European terms, this is not the case, but Antwerp is not a major city in European terms either.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic246x.u46	I would never dare say that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic246x.u47	The second city centre of Flanders. Let's just leave it at that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic246x.u48	Let us not discuss this, but we all know that they will go to the cities, to Belgian standards. The first option is therefore to strengthen the cities in all possible ways, but I believe that we need a double option, namely distribution and a shared responsibility. We must look for the best solution to this.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic246x.u49	Our country, like other European countries, is facing a large influx of migrants. Every month, more and more people apply for asylum at the Foreign Office. The numbers are not misleading. Since May 2015, growth has increased sharply. For example, 4,621 applications were received in August, compared with 5,521 in September. The rates of recognition of political refugee status follow the same curves, with almost 60% of applications accepted. I would like you, Minister, to confirm this figure of 60%. This is a record and also proof that the CGRA services are doing their job properly. There is no indication that these figures will fall soon, either this year or in future years, given the international context, particularly in Syria, Iraq and other countries. Mr Secretary of State, I would like to commend you and that of the government, which, in view of this progress, has implemented certain provisions, including the release of buffer places, the increase of reception capacity at Fedasil and its partners and the organisation of a pre-reception so that asylum seekers can be welcomed with dignity and do not sleep on the street as we have known in the past. Given the current situation, can you tell me what is the current processing time for asylum seekers in the Foreign Office and CGRA? Don't you soon fear a backlog in the processing of files due to the number of applications? What steps have or will be taken to manage and process applications?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic246x.u50	Honourable member, the asylum services of the Office of Foreigners have been strengthened with 11 people thanks to internal changes and 20 external recruitments. The strength was increased by 52 additional staff. Additional work equipment has already been purchased. After the initiation period, this reinforcement should be sufficient to be able to process new asylum applications and eliminate the backlog provided that the number of applications stabilizes. Due to the substantial and unpredictable increase in the number of asylum applications, the average processing time for asylum applications by the Foreign Office and CGRA has actually increased. It is very difficult to say exactly what is happening with the current duration of treatment. Some asylum-seekers always receive a response within a very short period of time. For others, there may be a delay at the time of registration or processing of the application. For some, this delay can be several months. I am, of course, fully aware that it is very important that applications be processed within a reasonable time frame for a coherent asylum policy. In this regard, the government has not remained inactive. On 28 August, the Council of Ministers decided to grant additional resources to the Foreign Office and CGRA. This has made it possible to hire additional staff and thus significantly strengthen these bodies. As far as CGRA is concerned, it is a strengthening of 120 employees, 105 at level A and 15 at level C. The objective of this measure is to be able to process new asylum applications again within a very short time and to clear the backlog that is being formed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic246x.u51	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your comprehensive answer. It is clear that additional resources have been put in place by this government and that the file has been taken in hand to be managed as best as possible. This crisis is unprecedented. I hope that we can continue to work in this direction and that we will not allow too long a time to react. We need to know quickly whether these people will stay or have to go back.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic246x.u52	Mr President, the Secretary of State, for several months now, Eastern Europe, and in particular the Balkan region, has been facing an unprecedented influx of refugees from the Middle East. We have all seen images of the trains stormed in Serbia, tear gas thrown at migrants in Macedonia or dozens of refugee candidates trying to bypass the wall built on the Serb-Hungarian border by the government of Viktor Orban. This barrier was erected in haste and stretches along the 175 kilometres of the border between Hungary and Serbia. It has been a source of reluctance on the part of the European Commission and many European countries. Since the beginning of the year, 710 000 migrants have arrived in the European Union. This year, Hungary has already registered well over 100,000 asylum applications, compared with 43,000 in 2014. In 2012, only 2,000 migrants had arrived in the country. Regularly, more than 2,000 people cross the Hungarian border and there is no indication that this figure will decrease in the medium term. Mr Secretary of State, the countries of the Balkan region, whether they are members of the European Union or not or members of the Schengen area, face an unprecedented influx of migrants that they are clearly unable to manage. Can you tell us whether material or financial means or aids are or will be provided by the European Union or Frontex to help them? Hungary is one of the first Schengen countries on the road to the Balkans. Will specific assistance be provided to this country by Frontex or EASO, as the latter already does in Greece and Italy? If so, what is it? There are voices that the influx of migrants threatens to undermine the sustainability of the Schengen area. The German Chancellor, Mrs Merkel, even said: "If we do not achieve a fair distribution (of refugees in Europe), then the question of the future of the Schengen area of free movement will arise." What is your position with regard to this risk of implosion of the Schengen area? What is your position on the possibility of reviewing the Dublin agreements?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic246x.u53	Mr President, Madam, some operations are carried out at national level with the help of Frontex, namely:- 452 border police officers and 55 patrol vehicles were deployed in Bulgaria; - 309 police officers were deployed to Greece; - Frontex called for additional resources on the border with Bulgaria and Turkey. Apart from these joint operations, the following collaborations should be noted: - First, the heads of the Hungarian, Austrian and Serbian national police services met to assist the Serbian authorities in terms of personnel and technical assistance; - Second, the border guards: the Hungarian, German and Austrian authorities deployed patrols on the Budapest-Gyor rail connection. In order to respond to the strong pressure on the Serb-Hungarian border, Frontex plans the following actions: 1. strengthening activities following calls from Member States to free up more resources; 2. the parking in Hungary of three observers who cooperate with the joint patrols and ensure a proper response by the Serbian authorities. At the end of August, the European Commission announced an additional €1.5 million in humanitarian aid to the countries of the Western Balkans. In his speech on the state of the Union, presented to the European Parliament on 9 September, the President of the Commission, Mr Juncker, referred to a new relocation plan aimed at relocating an additional 120 000 asylum seekers from Greece, Italy and Hungary. The aim was to take into account the Hungarian reality, a country that had to cope with a considerable influx of asylum-seekers into its territory. In the ensuing discussions, Hungary indicated that it also wished, like Italy and Greece, to set up registration chambers in Hungary. The latter states that it is able to control the influx without having to resort to these European registration boards. In addition, the European Commission has just allocated EUR 4 million of emergency aid to Hungary through the Asylum, Migration and Integration Fund. This allocation will be used to improve the infrastructure of existing reception centres and to develop new centres. The Schengen area must naturally be protected. The opening of internal borders is only possible in combination with the proper protection of external borders. The Dublin III Regulation currently in force raises many criticisms on the part of both Member States and civil society, particularly in view of the figures showing the number of transfers, which will be undertaken by the European Commission for 2016. On the basis of this assessment, it will then be possible to identify possible improvements to the Dublin III Regulation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic246x.u54	Mr President, I thank Mr Franken for the full description and for the information he has given me. Evaluation will, of course, be important and we will be able to take a position afterwards.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic246x.u55	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, the Office of the Commissioner-General for Refugees and Stateless Persons (CCRA) has proposed to the Council of Ministers that the Republic of Kosovo be listed as a safe country of origin. This decision was published in the Belgian Monitor on 24 April 2015. European law (through its Procedures Directive 2013/32/EU) allows Member States to draw up a list of so-called safe countries. This list further increases the burden of proof on the asylum-seeker, since it is up to him not only to convince the CGRA that he fears for his life if he returns to Kosovo, but also to reverse the presumption that his country would be "safe" for him. This is a particularly heavy task for the asylum-seeker and his counsel. This is all the more problematic because the CGRA hearings for these countries are very short (less than an hour), while asylum seekers show very great signs of vulnerability. They come from minorities. They are people with little schooling who, therefore, express themselves poorly, including in their own language. Moreover, their administrative situation is complex because of the status of Kosovo, which is not a rule of law recognized by all. France had also included Kosovo as a safe country of origin on the basis of the same European law. However, the French Council of State considered that Kosovo could not be considered safe "because of the instability, political context and violence to which certain categories of the population remain exposed" (judgments Nos. 375474 and 375920 of 10 October 2014). This cancelled Kosovo's inclusion in the French list of safe countries. This assessment of the situation in Kosovo is therefore in contrast to the finding made by CGRA here in Belgium. This is all the more worrying because both France and Belgium are bound by the same European directives which define the criterion of "safe country" and the very concept of refugee. In other words, on the basis of the same European law, opposing observations are made in France and Belgium. Finally, it should be noted that the CGRA website does not publish its opinions on safe countries, thereby reducing quality control and the sources of its opinions. It is all the more surprising that, if these countries are clearly so safe, open and transparent publication on the CGRA website should be possible without restriction. Mr Secretary of State, have you read the judgment of the French Council of State, which, on the basis of the same European law, comes to the opposite conclusion as to the security situation in Kosovo? Did you raise this contradiction with your French counterparts in order to understand on the basis of what information France believes Kosovo is not safe? If not, why not? Given that the precautionary principle should prevail in the field of asylum, given the irreversible consequences which a poorly assessed refusal decision may have for the person concerned, should we not align itself with the French position and therefore withdraw Kosovo from the Belgian list of safe countries? Do you confirm that the opinions taken by CGRA to list several countries on a list of safe countries of origin are still not available on the CGRA website? For what reasons and on what legal basis does the CGRA rely on not to make its opinions public?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic246x.u56	Mr Hellings, I have taken note of this judgment of the French Council of State, as I have taken note of the judgment of the Belgian Council of State. The latter confirms that Kosovo's presence on the list of safe countries was not a problem. I take this judgment into account, not the jurisprudence of the courts and tribunals of other countries. I see no valid reason to remove Kosovo from the list of safe countries of origin. It should be noted that discussions are continuing at European level in order to arrive at a European list of safe countries of origin. Kosovo is included in the list proposed by the European Commission. It is true that opinions concerning safe countries have not been published on the CGRA website. Moreover, there is no legal obligation for a public administration to publish certain information on its websites. However, the fact that these notices are not available on the site does not necessarily mean that the CGRA refuses to consult its advice in the event that it is requested to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic246x.u57	Mr Secretary of State, thank you. The question of Kosovo refers to the question of the Roma minority, which is particularly threatened in that country. One of the main reasons why people are seeking asylum in Belgium today is because they are Roma from Kosovo. As you have indicated, beyond the national lists of safe countries, there is a question of establishing a European list of safe countries. When we see that, in an important country such as France, the Council of State considers that Kosovo cannot be included on the list of safe countries, we can say that we will have a problem of matching the national and European lists. I do not see how France will be able to follow the European list of safe countries when its independent body, the Council of State, just declared Kosovo was not a safe country. It also refers to the debate on Turkey. There is a huge problem with the Kurds. I know you're sensitive to the Kurdish cause, for reasons that belong to you. I am also sensitive to this for reasons of respect for human rights and press law. If Turkey is on the European list of safe countries, that will raise questions. And I'm not talking about Iraq. Should certain areas be on the list of safe countries? I strongly encourage you to continue along the path outlined by the CGRA to remove it. Iraq is obviously not a safe country, otherwise we would not have gone to war there a few months ago!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic246x.u58	Mr. Secretary of State, Le Soir on September 17 mentioned a deep concern expressed by the German Chamber of Psychotherapists (BPtK) about the trauma suffered by the many refugees who arrived in Germany. Nearly 70 per cent of these asylum-seekers were reported to have witnessed serious violence. In addition, between 40 and 50% had post-traumatic stress symptoms. We can understand them: their country of origin, Syria, is at war. The arrival in Belgium of migrants, many of whom are likely to be granted international protection status, concerns the same group of people who arrived in Germany on the Balkan route: Syrians, Iraqis and Somalis fleeing war and violence. 20 July 2015 was the deadline for Belgium to transpose the European Directive 2013/32 on asylum procedures. It emphasises – see, for example, recital 29 and Article 24 – the need to identify, at the beginning of the asylum procedure, vulnerable persons, including traumatic cases, through a specific identification process so that they benefit from the best procedural conditions (quality hearing, a climate of trust and highly trained staff). It should be noted that this European Directive was adopted on 26 June 2013 and thus left a little more than two years for Belgium to transpose it. Finally, according to the information you have distilled in this Commission, the Office of the Commissioner-General for Refugees and Stateless Persons (CGRA) is in the process of recruiting contract staff to audit asylum seekers who have arrived in Belgium in recent months in whole waves. Mr Secretary of State, I come to my questions. With a view to transposing the Asylum Procedures Directive, how have medical assessments been organised at CGRA since 21 July? What is the mechanism for identifying vulnerable individuals or groups? Given the recent entry into force of the Asylum Procedures Directive, how many psychologists have been recruited from CGRA? How many of them have been operational since July 21st? To which service are they attached, given the dissolution of the CGRA Support Psychiatric Cell? Given the increase in asylum applications in Belgium in recent months, will the CGRA increase the number of its psychological counsellors? What specific training is provided or will be provided to the new protection officers responsible for hearing and investigating asylum cases on the identification and treatment of vulnerable persons? By whom are these trainings delivered or will they be delivered? Finally, given the central role played by protection officers in identifying and treating vulnerable people and the additional pressure they will experience in the context of crisis, what additional accompanying measures are being taken by CGRA management to manage the stress of protection officers and the emotional difficulties associated with these hearings, which can sometimes be dramatic?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic246x.u59	Dear colleague, CGRA does not organize the medical expertise itself. At this time, on the basis of an analysis of the file submitted by the Office of Foreigners and of the information provided by the asylum-seeker, including possibly a certificate or report drawn up by the medical expert, the CGRA shall examine whether there are any special needs. Where appropriate, measures shall be taken to meet these needs. It also examines whether a well-founded fear or real risk exists in the event of a return. In the future, the following mechanism will be set up – this is not yet the case, as the law is still in preparation. Upon registration at the Foreign Office, a questionnaire will be submitted to the asylum-seeker. This questionnaire will be completed if necessary with the assistance of a medically trained staff member. At any time, the claimant or his or her counsel may entrust to the Foreign Office or the CGRA elements that indicate special needs. On the basis of this questionnaire and an analysis of the facts mentioned in the asylum application file, the Foreign Office and the CGRA systematically verify whether there are special needs and, where appropriate, arrangements are made to meet these needs. For many people, there was already a mechanism for identifying special needs, with a policy to meet them. This policy has been extended to other categories on the basis of the analysis of the file and the information provided by the asylum seeker. CGRA examines whether there are specific needs; if so, action is taken to address these needs. There are no psychologists or psychological counsellors at CGRA. The implementation of mechanisms for identifying vulnerable persons, in accordance with the provisions of the Asylum Procedures Directive, does not require the CGRA to employ a psychologist for this purpose. Nor is this foreseen in the near future. A wide range of training has been developed at CMRA for protection officers and consists of three to four weeks of basic training followed by field training supervised by a coach or supervisor. Training on the identification of special needs consists primarily of training for those who process the asylum application. In addition, specific training is provided for protection officers who audition unaccompanied minors or other categories. Recently, CGRA decided to extend the "Intervision" project, which is also a general project concerning well-being at work and which has been developed at CGRA. The vicarizing stress aspect is part of it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic246x.u60	I thank the Secretary of State for his very structured response. I'll read it carefully. It is important today that Belgium should not be condemned for non-transposition of the directive. I hear that a series of things are already being implemented without asking for an amendment to the law. However, be careful! The deadline for transposition has been exceeded. It was January 20, 2015. This would mean that Belgium fully complies with this directive on asylum procedures. This is not just a humanitarian issue. Of course, this is one, first and foremost, knowing the psychological and material situation of the refugees arriving from Syria today. It is also a matter of not being condemned and not paying a fine because an important EU directive would not have been transposed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic246x.u61	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, my speech was initially addressed to Minister Reynders, but was finally put in the tray of the Secretary of State. Hence it was merged with a similar question. A while ago, we learned that Belgium, together with a whole series of other EU countries, was in default by the European Commission, because it is not yet in order to transpose a number of directives which had to be transposed into national legislation by 20 July at the latest. If I am not mistaken, the colleague next to me will have a question about this later. I find it particularly arrogant of the European Commission to reprimand Member States that make a great deal of effort for such matters, even failing to comply with the basic rules agreed on asylum at European level. I have just heard another colleague refer to it. The major problem is at European level, with the borders in Italy and Greece leaking. You yourself say that the big problem lies there. It is therefore a very regrettable action by the European Commission to remind the Member States of their obligations, even though it does not fulfil its own obligations. European migration policy fails, because of the external borders that are leaking and Mrs Merkel's signal to the outside world that the whole world is welcome here. We all know that refugees often pass through up to five safe countries in search of the best social systems. Of course, that cannot be the intention. A completely different approach at European level seems necessary, because the situation is clearly not improving. Your party chairman, Mr Secretary of State, has already started this process by making a plea for a different international approach. He referred in particular to the revision of the Geneva International Convention on the Status of Refugees. Since my interplay has been transferred here and I am getting a little more speaking time, I will add three quotes. It is not my custom to quote Bart De Wever, but if he quotes the analysis that we have been performing for years and has come to that moving insight, I may as well use his words. The first quote is this. International law is a straitjacket that prevents us from doing the things that I think are logical. In his exhibition, he did not call it realistic that the 1951 Geneva Convention on Refugees grants the same social rights to political refugees as to his own countrymen. The social security of 1951 is really not what social security is today, he said, and he continued: "That treaty is written in a completely different context, but it is not charged. Some countries have developed generous social security and the Geneva Convention serves as a ticket to be a refugee. At some point he even said: "Legal rules are not moral maxims but the translation of a social consensus at a time in time and in a specific space. If that consensus changes, the law must adapt to it; the consensus must not adapt to the law. I can only conclude from this that he is talking about the adaptation of that refugee treaty. Mr Secretary of State, before you dismiss this as incomplete quotes or as academic considerations, I will ask you my specific question. After all, I know that the amendment of such a treaty is likely to be a piece of work. However, an article in the Convention provides that each Member State may ask the UN Secretary-General to undertake a review, if only to give the signal, within Europe, that the current policy cannot be pursued. That is why I have just one simple question for you, Mr Secretary of State: will Belgium make the necessary contacts at European or international level and take the necessary steps to at least place the revision of the Geneva Convention on the international political agenda?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic246x.u62	Mr President, Mrs Pas, I would like to answer a few questions. Firstly, you refer to a speech by Mr Bart De Wever, who he held as an opening lecture for the faculties of Law and Political and Social Sciences of the University of Ghent in which he called for the revision of certain provisions of the Geneva Convention concerning the status of refugees, in particular as regards access to social security. I note with you that the debate has been going on for several weeks, even months, and that seems to me to be a good thing. In a healthy democracy, a broad and in-depth debate can be held, not least on the fundamental aspects of how we wish to organise our society. In France and Germany a new asylum legislation is being finalised, in the Netherlands a austerity of care is being chosen, and in Denmark measures have been taken with regard to social security. I can only conclude with you that there is an in-depth debate in several European countries. The large influx of asylum seekers that our country currently knows has, of course, far-reaching consequences, including in terms of employment, integration, social security and housing policy. It is therefore necessary to do the thinking exercise. That is what Mr De Wever has proposed. I must say that your quotes are rather selective. It is also very clear in a number of passages that the principle of the Geneva Convention is not called into question at all, and that is the explicit position of many parties, I believe, particularly the protection of war refugees. That is the most important principle, and that is why the Geneva Convention was created. That is what Mr De Wever said, but you are not quoting it. However, it is important to start with that. Usually when Bart De Wever says something, they refer to or think about what he just didn't say. In his speech he spoke of the main principle of the Geneva Convention, the protection of war refugees, and that is the most important and fundamental point in the discussion. If you ask me whether Belgium has taken or will take steps to suspend the Geneva Convention, I can answer you that Belgium has, above all, taken a lot of steps to ensure that there is a better asylum and migration policy. It is Belgium that, from the very beginning, at the first meeting of the European Council on Home Affairs, Justice and Migration in October, put the return policy on the agenda. The Valetta summit, within a few weeks, is expected a lot. Expectations are high. Steps have been taken forward. Finally there are hotspots, finally there is European solidarity to better guard the borders. Indeed, we see that some countries cannot or do not want to do so, or a combination of both. The Belgian Government, in particular the Prime Minister and the Minister for Foreign Affairs, have always said the right words at European level and put the right emphasis on getting the right things to do. We have taken great steps forward there and things are evolving in the right direction. I also note that a number of predictions have been made. But when it comes to Turkey's role, I'm thinking about the pushback operation this weekend. So this is very topical. Now we are no longer talking about push back, but about take back, about the fact that the Turkish Coast Guard itself would bring a number of boats back to its own coast and ports. That is what is now on the table in the discussion between the European Commission, Mrs Merkel and the Turkish President. It's not about push backs, but about take backs, but it comes down to the same thing. In some countries there is effective talk about social status, social housing, priority and so on. The debate is taking place in every European country and especially in European countries that are the terminus. There are a number of transit countries which have different problems. A number of countries, including Belgium, want to apply for asylum and allow fingerprints of the person in question to be taken. This is often also a problem. The debate is therefore open and will remain open for a while. If you're asking me if it's going in the right direction, I'm saying yes. I believe that Belgium, too, has shown and continues to show a great deal of courage in recent months. The Prime Minister also spoke the right words at the European summit last week and did not go along with Turkey's story with the European Union. He drew a clear line there. I think it's a good line. We must be very careful in that regard. He said that we could think about the visa waiver for students and researchers. These negotiations have been going on for years and are in a final stage. However, there is a large difference between visa waivers for certain categories and membership of the European Union. There is an interplanetary difference between them. In this sense, steps have been taken forward. So far, Belgium has always followed the right line. There are many developments in the direction of the Belgian position, and that is a good thing. I will certainly continue to play my part in this, so that we in Europe hopefully achieve a better, more correct and fairer asylum policy for everyone, which protects genuine war refugees in particular. Let's give them shelter .
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic246x.u63	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Debate is indeed a good thing, but at European level too, we must dare to have the right debate. Belgium follows far too well the European Union without putting its finger on the wound. Just look at countries like Hungary that have to overreact because the European Union does not intervene. You say that we now want to do more to finally tackle the leaky borders in Italy and Greece, but those treaties already existed. Closing the external borders was a prerequisite for the removal of internal borders, but that was never possible. Nor should one be so naive as to think that this will now succeed in one-two-three. In the meantime, you are obliged to control internal borders, literally rather than to impose limits on our generosity. You are referring to Turkey, where the predictions have come from. Unfortunately, I am not happy with that, predictions of the Flemish Interest have come true. We have been saying for years that Turkey is a turning point for human trafficking. The people of Frontex say that there are 500 000 people waiting around Izmir for the crossing to the European Union. Turkey has always refused to properly map those smugglers. You do not tell me that in a country with such state security as Turkey, where every critical journalist and cartoonist can be traced, caught and imprisoned, it is not possible to identify and tackle smugglers who openly advertise. That's manifest unwillingness. I also questioned Minister Reynders about this a few years ago, when people smugglers used Facebook to advertise the transfer to the European Union. See first and then believe. We know what Turkey wants and what they use as a token. Mrs Merkel will certainly be advertising the Erdogan elections, which seems to be the case in the perception. So that's not going in the right direction. I am certainly not reassured, especially since Belgium has never tried to stop the opening of subsequent chapters in Turkey's accession. On the contrary, despite the fact that every report by the European Commission was a retrograde report rather than a progress report, it has never dared to be put on the table. One does not have the guts to ask the right questions and to have the right discussion. I'm sorry to hear that. I find it particularly regrettable that our country goes even further than what is stated in the Geneva Convention, in Article 24, to which your party chairman rightly referred. You still have a margin for action on the protection of social security. Your President is right to take our position now and say that things need to be dealt with differently at international level. Otherwise mopping with the tap will remain open.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic246x.u64	Very briefly, Mrs. Pas. You say that these are all VB proposals that are needed and implemented. Allow me to doubt that. You have also mentioned a number of figures. Your party has done so in the last few weeks and I also read them in all possible publications. Only 6% of the rejected would return and my budget for repatriation would have fallen by a quarter. That's obviously wrong. Please be intellectually honest and use the correct figures. The repatriation budget has increased, the places in closed centres are rising from 405 to 605 in six months and there are many additional staff. There has been an unprecedented increase in staffing capacity in the DVD and resources have increased. I hear all possible explanations. Barely 5.8 % would return. That's not right. You only take the figures of forced repatriation, without taking into account the figures of voluntary return, self-return, Dublin takeovers and bilateral takeovers. You say that last year there were 48 000 orders to leave the territory, that is correct, but you have to look at the number of people. You're throwing it all in a pile. If your proposals are like your figures, I'll hold my heart.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic246x.u65	Mr Secretary of State, I seem to have struck a sensitive chord, because I am not getting a reply on any of the figures I mentioned in my question and on matters that are going to appear in other questions. The only figure I have mentioned is that of 500 000 in and around Izmir and that comes from Frontex. These are not even Flemish interest figures, but I take note of your questioning Frontex's figures. I would add one more quote from your chairman, including an analysis that we have been making for a long time. One cannot soign mass migration and a welfare state both, that simply cannot be done in practice. One has to choose. To put it with the words of Mr. De Wever, not in his so-called academic considerations, but in the VTM news: either you close your borders or you close your social security. That's something you don't do, despite all the figure magic.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic246x.u66	At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Barbara Pas and reads as follows: The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mrs Barbara Pas and the reply of the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration, responsible for Administrative Simplification, attached to the Minister for Security and Home Affairs, - having regard to the International Convention of 28 July 1951 on the Status of Refugees, better known as the Geneva Convention, in particular Article 24 on Labour Law and Social Security; - whereas the Convention states that refugees should have the same social security rights as nationals of the country; - whereas this creates a huge intake effect on refugees and alleged refugees to countries with a highly developed social security system, which threatens to undermine the social security system of that country; - whereas, on 22 September, the Chairman of the largest government party made a plea for revision of the Convention in this respect; asks the government, to establish the necessary contacts at international level and to take the necessary steps to put a possible revision of the Geneva Convention on the international political agenda to that effect . modify the name and address of the holder of the authorisation. A motion for recommendation was tabled by Ms. Barbara Pas and reads as follows: The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Mrs Barbara Pas and the reply of the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration, responsible for administrative simplification, Deputy to the Minister of Security and Interior, -considering the general convention of 28 July 1951 relating to the status of refugees (better known as the Geneva Convention) and more specifically article 24 on labour legislation and social security; Whereas, according to this Convention, refugees must enjoy the same rights as nationals in matters of social security; - Whereas this obligation creates an important aspirational effect for refugees and so-called refugees to countries whose social security system is highly developed, thus risking weakening it; - Whereas on the basis of these considerations, the President of the first party of the government pleaded on 22 September last in favour of a revision of this Convention; asks the government, to take the necessary contacts and measures at the international level with a view to bringing to the international policy agenda a possible revision of the Geneva Convention in this direction. A simple motion was tabled by Mrs. Sarah Smeyers. A simple motion was tabled by Ms. Sarah Smeyers. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed.
