ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic104x.u1	I welcome the speakers from this morning and the ladies and gentlemen of the press. An important hearing is on the agenda today, namely on the issue of discrimination in the labour market. This problem, as you all know, was widely reported in the media last week. Before I start work, I have another announcement to make. We have received six petitions. As usual, these will be placed on the Chamber's intranet site under file 2B. You can consult them. If you wish them to be discussed in our committee, please inform our secretariat. I would like to make a few practical comments in advance on the hearings. I propose to work with an integral report. The advantage of this is that it will already be available tomorrow for all of you and for the general public. This is particularly labour-intensive for our services, but it seems advisable to me to do so before this hearing. The result is that we should not appoint a rapporteur. We have a long series of speakers in our committee today. You may have noticed that there are many speakers. This morning, we will hear representatives of the Minderhedenforum, Mr Muyldermans of Federgon and two speakers from the administration, Mr Vanden Broeck of SIOD and Mr Bevers of the SPF Employment, Labour and Social Concertation. This Afternoon we will have employees from the Interfederal Equal Opportunities Centre and Mrs Debast of the VVSG. As you know, according to the study of the Minority Forum, the issue of discrimination also applies to OMCWs and public employment. Then there's someone from Family Help. We've been informed it's not going to be Mrs. Bode, but it's going to be the HR director. Then we have employer Jan Denys van Randstad and finally two representatives of the trade unions. I would also point out that we have urged all these organizations, which have not given us the names of the speakers in advance, to include French speakers as well. I explicitly asked in the mail sent to them. I note, however, that the CSC has asked Mrs Myriam Gérard to come, but that, for the rest, they are Dutch-speaking speakers. I hope that next time we will have a better balance among representatives. In order to get everyone involved and to make the debate richer, I propose the following method of working. Each speaker has 10 minutes of introduction. We will start with the Minderhedenforum with MM. Van Bellingen and Lahlali, followed by Mr Muyldermans, Mr Vanden Broeck and, to conclude, Mr Bevers. Secondly, ladies and gentlemen, we will begin the questions and the debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic104x.u2	Mr President, we also had a hearing on this important subject in the previous legislature. I note that we continue to discuss this, but what is the ultimate purpose of the hearing? What do we do with the discussions?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic104x.u3	We had already decided on this last time, at Mrs Kitir's request. After the hearing has been concluded, we will, firstly, ask the Minister for a response. Secondly, in conjunction with the other parliaments where the problem is being discussed, our committee is intended to try to draw up a proposal for a resolution in which we give concrete instruments to the sectors and the administration in order to better deal with the problems. What that will be concrete is too early to say now, Mrs Demir. In any case, you will find that quite rightly in the case of Mr Oomen-Ruijten, we will not leave it at one hearing. We are looking for solutions, which we will then propose to the government and which we hope will be tasted by the government. If there are no more questions, I suggest that we invite Mr Van Bellingen to the Minority Forum to give his presentation. Mr Van Bellingen, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic104x.u4	Mr President, I would like to thank the committee for inviting us. It is a great honour for us as a Flemish institution to be here. Mr President, I would also like to thank you for your piece of opinion today in De Standaard. I read it with attention. I also very much appreciate your commitment to this matter. We have ten minutes to speak. There are two of us. Maybe our presentation can take a little longer. However, I will try to keep to the agreed time. Thank you again for being here in committee. It is an important step for us, the Minority Forum. We have been given a number of key tasks by decree by the Flemish government. These are, on the one hand, the fight against discrimination, imagery and the attention given to certain communities, such as the Roma and caravans. So this is about discrimination in concrete terms. We've had a mystery caller call in to a cleaning lady for the parents. He asked not an immigrant but a Flemish cleaning woman to send. We have done so during the months of July and August. Here are the results. You can see that 4.5 % pointed out that if we were not satisfied, we could refuse the person if we wanted to; 29 % refused to answer the question; 62 % saw no problem and was willing to send someone who is Flemish. In fact, two out of three of these companies deal with the question of discrimination. However, anti-discrimination is one of the core conditions of companies. It is therefore not normally appropriate to respond to such a question. The study also showed that the public sector was still the worst pupil of the class in this area. That is why we have a few recommendations, such as a binding collective agreement with reporting obligations on discriminatory practices of customers to the inspection and the labour auditor, especially for sub-sectors working with service cheques. The collective agreement must also include a whistleblower's statute, a disciplinary regime and compulsory training on discrimination. So it is not just a question of punishment but also of guidance and protection for those who want to report facts. Why do we ask? We do this because we have noticed during discussions with the sector that the cowboys who are not covered by Federgon, for example, do not follow the rules. As a result, there is a distortion of competition in the sector. That is why we are calling for a binding collective agreement to oblige cowboys, who distort competition, to comply with the law. I would suggest that we take a brief look at certain figures. So we will ride through it quickly. I refer to the study and also to a number of legislative rules. However, I shall give the floor to my colleague Mohamed Lahlali.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic104x.u5	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, good morning. We also want to focus on the labour market position of people with a migration background in Belgium and, unfortunately, we are poor pupils in the European classroom. Recent OECD research on the labour market position of migrants in Belgium, among others, shows that we are lagging behind in OECD class. The efficacy rate in people with a migration background is around 50%. As you can see in the table, we are only doing better than Turkey, Greece and Spain. Belgium, which is one of the top economic regions in Europe, scores very poorly in terms of the effectiveness of people with a migration background. The figures are concentrated by the OECD on a number of issues. It appears, for example, that people with a nationality outside the EU-27 are doing very badly. Only 46% of them are employed. In the case of women, the situation is even worse with a rate of efficacy of 37%. I'll save you the technical details and focus on the red. It is the conclusion that the labour market position of people with a migration background is very poor, but this is a structural fact that has existed for several decades. The OECD does, however, establish an important causal link, in the sense that, despite the fact that we have a fairly extensive anti-discrimination regulation in Belgium, discrimination is still a structural problem that needs to be addressed from the point of view of policy. Discrimination is a structural problem and this is also evident from the practical tests we did with mystery calling. The tests are legion. You have the PowerPoint. I'll go over it real soon. I thought we had a little more time. Tempo-Team did an interesting research in 2011. They made a representative sample. They have called 205 human resources managers and 401 employees with the demand for perceptions of opportunity groups. This showed that, in particular, the opportunity group of people with a migration background has a very negative perception of those human resources managers, as well as of employees. The biggest problem is that one thinks fairly negative about them as if they were not motivated or if there was something wrong with their commitment. It is mainly the HR managers who are responsible for recruitment policies. This often raises the problem of statistical discrimination, where people who have prejudices are also involved in recruitment policies. There are a number of European studies which once again highlight the issue of discrimination in the labour market. ECRI, European Commission against Racism and Intolerance, of the Council of Europe, has once again highlighted the problem of labour-related discrimination in its fourth monitoring cycle. That conclusion was also drawn in 2012. ENAR, European Network Against Racism, also indicates in 2013 that people with a migration background in the workplace face discrimination, especially in recruitment. There is also the OECD study I referred to. One of the factors behind the disadvantage in the labour market is discrimination. Of course, there are other factors, but we will focus on labour-related discrimination in particular. The main problem is that the legislation remains dead letter, despite our very extensive regulatory arsenal with three anti-discrimination laws, a number of generally binding collective agreements such as collective agreement 38, collective agreement 95, a collective agreement within the broadcasting sector of 2011, regulations, decrees, etc. That is because the final piece, in particular enforcement, is missing. If potential offenders discriminate, meant or unintentionally, and are not controlled, then there will be an atmosphere of impunity and despair among victims. We are not, of course, in favour of 100% enforcement. An enforcement chain starts with sensitising and informing people, but ultimately the rule of law must be enforced. However, we can see that policies favour preventive enforcement and consultation. That is a good starting point, but at some point, when hard learners or companies are not sensitized, the government must also intervene to set an example. An example of this is found in Flanders, which is responsible for the broadcasting sector and a number of other work-related themes. Since 2007, there has been an action plan on labour-related discrimination, which has so far brought little to the fore because only the sensitisation panel has received the necessary attention. It is also important that anti-discrimination legislation is the transposition of a number of directives. The directive must always be in conformity with the rules. The two anti-discrimination directives of 2000, namely the Racial Directive and the Equal Treatment Directive, clearly state that Member States must provide the necessary sanctions and remedies to penalise discriminatory acts. They shall be effective, proportionate and dissuasive. Unfortunately, we note that this is not the case; they are neither effective nor dissuasive. It is also important that the directive did not really define this, but that in 2013 the Court of Justice gave a clear definition of the concepts of "effective' and "deprecating'. Symbolic sanctions are not directive-compliant. This means effective sanctions that are more than symbolic in nature. When we look at the number of convictions based on discrimination in Belgium, we think that there are mainly symbolic sanctions. We must then have the necessary legal remedies to bring the victims before the courts. We fear that this directive will not be properly interpreted in Belgium. The persons of the Inspectorate for the Supervision of Social Laws will explain more about work-related discrimination. They are indeed competent to act in employment relations on the basis of infringements of anti-racism and anti-discrimination legislation. I have just looked up how many complaints come in from the annual reports. They are not so clear, but fortunately there was a parliamentary question raised by Mrs Zuhal Demir in 2013, for which I would like to thank her. On the basis of this parliamentary question, I have been able to distill a number of data. The Department of Monitoring of Social Laws has figures until 2012. I have based myself on the parliamentary question. Zero minutes were drawn up. This is, of course, in stark contrast to the phenomenon of discrimination in the labour market. One can ask questions about that. There is a power to act, but the number of minutes and the number of reports is very low. Parliament's question showed that there were 25 in 2012, but the annual report shows that there are only 10. I therefore assume that between 10 and 25 complaints have been received. This can be done both through the Interfederal Equal Opportunities Centre where there is a cooperation protocol but the problem is also the same at the Flemish Work and Social Economy Inspection, which is competent to act in Flanders on administrative discrimination within their fields of competence. There we see that for 2013 only 7 notifications have been received via the digital form. There is also a problem of reporting in particular, while the number of reports entering the Inter-Federal Equal Opportunities Centre is mainly labour-related. Relatively, the largest number are employment-related reports. It appears, however, that they do not seep through to the competent labour inspectorate. What we are asking for is that the approach to discrimination in the labour market should be a top priority for inspection services and that they should draw up an action plan for this purpose with a number of minimum control objectives to be achieved annually. Especially in the case of enforcement, there is the burden of proof. That is why there is little or no record. We ask for the necessary investigative tools to be given to the Department of Monitoring of Social Laws, such as mystery shopping and practical tests. That's not news. I went to look into very good database of the Chamber and Senate. There have been a number of written and oral questions in the Chamber and the Senate in recent years on the issue of discrimination. In 2010, in this Social Affairs Committee, there was a question from Mrs Kitir and Mrs Grosemans following a report that showed that 6 in the 8 interim offices responded to a discriminatory demand from a customer, an employer. This was also the reason for the collective agreement that was subsequently concluded within the broadcasting sector. The Minister responsible said that we would be better able to combat it if the Department of Monitoring of Social Laws had those practical tests. This was the case in 2010. Another question has been asked, within a different framework, by Mrs Demir, the same as about the number of complaints. The Minister replied that the problem was the difficulty of proof. The inspection does not have the power to act proactively and cannot use the practical test. That was in 2013. It happens again in 2014. That is interesting because that is where Minister De Coninck gets a question from Mr Bart De Nijn in the Senate, to which she replied that it is again a question of the burden of proof; the inspection does not have the necessary tools to detect discrimination proactively. That should normally also be the task of an inspection service which is actually different from a police service. Inspection services should normally take preventive action in such a way as to ensure compliance with the legislation. That same year, in 2014, the Minister also replied to a question from Bert Anciaux, something interesting, namely that there is indeed a problem with the burden of proof. The burden of proof is lacking in those files, but the Minister said that the inspection service is examining the extent to which the special investigative technique can be used. My question is what is the state of play in the monitoring of social legislation. That was a promise made by the former Minister of Labour. We therefore call in particular for the inspection service to be given the powers to carry out checks on the monitoring of social legislation in practice. I move on to the added value of mystery shopping, which can lead to evidence-based results, provided that there is no provocation to the infringement, but we rely on a vote of confidence for our inspection services: they have the necessary expertise to be able to remain within the legal framework. The importance of a practical test lies in the shift in the burden of proof. If you bring up facts, if you can prove that you are the victim of a discriminatory act, then a judge may not have to do so, the court of the ground decides on this matter and shift the burden of proof to the alleged offender. This can only be done under the anti-discrimination law. It can't be for the anti-racism law. In criminal law, of course, the general principle of presumption of innocence applies. There the burden of proof cannot be transferred to the alleged perpetrator. It's important to bring up facts. They can only be cited by means of a practical test, among other things. This is also reflected in the parliamentary preparations for the 2003 anti-discrimination law. We need convincing facts to be put forward. A practical test itself does not automatically provide evidence of discrimination, but does shift the suspicion of discrimination to the alleged offender. He'll have to prove he didn't discriminate. That is a transposition of and obligation from European directives. In 2004, the Arbitration Court, now the Constitutional Court, indicated that the practical test is a valid tool, especially since the information needed by a victim lies with the alleged offender. I would like to make two more points. First of all, the practice test and mystery shopping are not new. Two laws were passed in the Chamber in 2013 and 2014. Both laws give the FSMA, the Financial Services and Markets Authority, and the Economic Inspectorate the legal power to do mystery shopping. A person may pose as a customer in order to check the banks' correct performance of the financial product disclosure obligation with respect to their customers. That goes a long way, with the Financial Inspectorate under the title Mystery Shopping: Imagine it as potential clients without having to declare their status as a staff member. The Council of State did not make a point of this, it did not do so, because it was not determined by royal decree but by the legislator. That was also the advice given by the Council of State to the two previous anti-discrimination laws on the missing implementing decisions of the practical test. There the Council of State stated above all that it should not be given to the King or to the executive but that it should follow the principle of legality.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic104x.u6	I would like to make a few comments. We call for an evaluation of the 2007 anti-discrimination law. Normally, that should have happened by now. This should normally have been done on 10 December 2012. We are therefore calling for this to be included in the debate. We also call for positive action to ensure equality. We note that seven years was not enough to pass the implementing decisions. That's an important fact, isn't it? The lock is missing. We also call for an inter-federal action plan to tackle racism, as promised in 2001 and 2009. We therefore call for an inter-ministerial conference to develop this inter-federal action plan against racism. Until today, 14 years after the promise, Belgium is failing. Why do we think that's important? Racism and xenophobia are a direct violation of the principles of freedom and democracy and of human rights. We are, of course, asking that this be included. Protection against discrimination is a universal right for us, not only for us, also for the European Commission and for the UN. We thank this committee for having us here. The speeches are a little longer than planned, but I believe that the information given here can be interesting. I also hope that this Parliament, together with the other parliaments, will come up with a good initiative to address anti-discrimination and work on it for the years to come. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic104x.u7	Thank you, Mr Van Bellingen and Mr Lahlali, for your statement. You have used your speaking time to make a very interesting statement. Thank you, too, for following up the work of the Chamber and of the other parliaments so closely, with the parliamentary questions that were asked and the clear answers given by the ministers at the time. In any case, your statement is a very useful contribution to the debate that we will be holding in the near future. Mr Muyldermans, may I ask you to give your findings on behalf of Federgon and your sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic104x.u8	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for inviting us to present Ferdergon's vision on this dossier. In the meantime, I have a 35-year career in the labour market and I dare say that the discrimination dossier is one of the most difficult dossiers I have been able to deal with. The basic view of Federgon is that there is no place for discrimination in our society and in the labour market, but we must note that discrimination is widespread in society and in the labour market. Discrimination in the labour market is the result of discrimination in society and we have discrimination in many areas: on the basis of sex, age, origin and language. This discrimination already begins at school, because there is already a great deal of discrimination in schools. I believe that looking for a solution is a task for everyone and that everyone is, as far as I am concerned, the government, federal and regional; the employers and employees in the companies; the trade unions; the Minority Forum, the centre of Mr Van Bellingen; the Interfederal Equal Opportunities Centre, which we are allowed to meet this afternoon. Our appeal is to look at this very closely together, again, because we have already done so in the past. We must continue to work on this and have a serene debate, but a debate without blinkers is very important. Then I get the bad news. There's bad news. Various studies have been prepared. There's the study of Minderhedenforum. There is IDEA's study on the securities and services sector in June 2010. Tens of thousands of clients have a problem with older people, or men in service titles, or allochtones. Let's take this pure study that has been known since 2010. What do we see? In Belgium, 10% wants to discriminate on the basis of age, 20% on the basis of sex men can't clean and iron, I can clean and iron............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... There are even very clear regional differences. Brussels does not want to discriminate on the basis of origin, Flanders does and Wallonia wants to discriminate on the basis of sex. In Wallonia, more people think men can't clean. The basic problem, I will always repeat this, is with the customer. The customer discriminates. I'm gonna throw some numbers at it. There are 900 000 customers. If we extrapolate these figures, there are 145 000 customers who want to discriminate on the basis of origin, 180 000 on the basis of sex and 90 000 customers do not want an older household help. That's the first bad news. The second bad news is the study of the Minority Forum, which clearly shows that two thirds or three fifths of companies go wrong if they receive a discriminatory application. What's the good news? These are the figures for the employment of foreign nationals in the service cheque sector. In total, only 71 per cent of household help is Belgian, 20 per cent has an EU-27 nationality and 8 per cent has a nationality outside the EU-27. Here too, we are different. In Wallonia, there are more Belgians at work. In Brussels, there are 21% non-European allochtons. Flanders follows about the average. This means that there are 12 300 non-EU workers in the sector and some 30 000 non-Bells but from the EU. The other good news is that the service cheque sector is one big bottleneck profession, because we find virtually no people. In any case, it is in the interests of the companies not to discriminate. They have an interest in recruiting. I would like to make the following point. The file we are dealing with here is not a problem of discrimination in recruitment, but a problem of discrimination in relation to the customer. These people are all recruited and we find work, also for the immigrants, because they are a bottleneck profession. If that weren't the case, we'd be dealing with another situation. The solution is available on two levels. It is part of the solution, because I have learned that we will never find a complete solution. A first part of the solution is to address the problem at the source, at the ultimate customer. In my view, this is primarily a matter for the government. Let me make it provocative. Why has the government or some organization never started a campaign in the genre of discrimination is stupid, for example on signs along the motorways? Discriminating is stupid: I can build a whole series of arguments about that. The problem with the service cheque company is a problem for the sector federations, that is to say for the companies themselves, and also for the public authorities, i.e. for both. I strongly believe in a sectoral approach. In the past, we have shown in the temporary agency companies that we are achieving results there. I am therefore very proud that the present study shows that the temporary agency companies are achieving the best, or negative, the least bad, results. I dare say that this is the result of a long-standing approach by Federgon and its members. So I strongly believe in a sectoral approach to sensitisation, but also of sanctioning. In addition, it is a task of the government. What really matters here? The consultant who receives a discriminatory question must be pumped in because a human being is weak and answers that question that they cannot answer and that they screen on the basis of experience and quality, not on the basis of origin. A sentence that can be found in the study of the Minority Forum is the variant of the "Volume" that is not going to work. We are pursuing an anti-discrimination policy. It's about the brushing. That needs to be pumped into those consultants. If they start to doubt, they'll go along with the discriminatory application. What have we done in relation to the broadcasting sector? In the early 1990s, we included the prohibition of discrimination in the Federgon Code. In 1996, and not in 2011, we concluded a collective labour agreement in our Joint Committee which provides for measures to be taken with regard to prevention and discrimination. It was only in 2011 that we adapted this convention. Within Federgon, we have provided for a whole system to combat discrimination. The weak consultant who receives a discriminatory question must be removed from that file. This is what we do in the broadcasting sector. Hence there are contact points in the companies dealing with such files. We have had some scandalous files in the past. If the temporary agency had contacted the managing director of the company and said: you do not want to have your name on the first page of Het Laatste Nieuws, it would have told its employees that they should not discriminate. There were some heavy files a few years ago. Afterwards, of course, that is very bad for the image. Take it away from the consultant. Advanced training to the consultants is needed. Those two sentences need to come out in a reflex. Federgon and our companies provide training. I come to my comments on mystery calling, Mr President, because you asked us to do so, among other things. In the context of self-regulation, we have a system of mystery calling for temporary agency companies. Now we will check whether we extend that to our member service cheque companies that do not have a temporary agency. Biennially organizes a specialized company and we start such a campaign in a few months again on mystery calling to our members. The results are good, but not good enough. We are still in error, too often, but the results are better than those shown by the figures of the Minority Forum. We arrive at 25% that gives in to a question of discrimination on the phone. What does Federgon do next? The company in question must draw up, implement and send an action plan to Federgon, of which it is a member. This is a matter of self-regulation. Of course, we have no legal problem with such mystery calling, because Members have decided to do so themselves. It is on the basis of the will of Members that this practice can be implemented without difficulty at legal level. If a company continues to fail, the company loses its Federgon quality label, which all temporary workers are so proud of. All temporary agency companies in Federgon have, or try to obtain, a quality label and they lose it if they get a third negative figure in the context of the mystery call. In addition to Federgon's action and the actions of the foundation fund of the sector, you have been given these beautiful playing cards there is no excuse for the customers that they must necessarily have a Dutch speaking household help. They can put those cards there. We started that experiment. This is given to the customers. Even the housekeepers react very positively, because they learn at the same time. I give the example of the card repass, ironing and they see an ironing board. In 2010, after the negative results of the IDEA study, I contacted the Centre for Equal Opportunities and Combating Racism. We then developed training courses for consultants in the service cheque sector. In addition to self-regulation, which I strongly believe in, there is a task for the government. I'm thinking about the Social Inspectorate. I even doubt whether the Economic Inspectorate is not competent either, because it is not a question of discrimination in recruitment. However, I am not a lawyer enough to answer that question. My appeal to everyone is to sit together and find solutions. Above all, let us also find very practical solutions. The basic problem is with the customer. We are the intermediaries and, of course, we must apply the legislation. Let us come up with a major action plan with all the parties involved. Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic104x.u9	Thank you very much, Mr Muyldermans. I would also like to thank you for explaining the system you have developed with the broadcasting sector. Apparently that does not yet apply to service cheque companies. I would also like to thank you for appealing to the sector and all the actors involved. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that the floor be given to Mr Philippe Vanden Broeck. He works in the SIOD, the umbrella department of the inspection services. We would like to hear from him the extent to which action is being taken and how discrimination is being dealt with in practice.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic104x.u10	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the invitation. It is a good time for us to explain what we have been doing for years. We have been stressing for years that we have many difficulties in relation to discrimination. The text will be available through the Secretariat. I will not talk about legislation. It is well known. There are sufficient instruments. Now it's a matter of improving them. The word has already been spoken. The inspection does not, of course, have so much resources for enforcement nor to bring about a change of attitude on the part of the public. However, we have been able to help some of the changes in the attitudes of employers, service cheque companies and so on. How does it work in practice with the Inspection Service? I represent SIOD, the Social Intelligence and Investigation Service. It is not really concerned with discrimination, but with social fraud. At the same time, I am a representative of the General Directorate of Supervision of Social Laws, the generic federal inspection service that deals with labour inspection in Social Security. So I'm on different horses at the same time. At federal level, the General Executive Board is the only one in charge of enforcing federal anti-discrimination laws. We also monitor the collective bargaining agreements of the NAR and the sectoral collective bargaining agreements. Some of them have been mentioned. For example, the collective agreement of the broadcasting sector is a very good collective agreement. We note that there have been far fewer reports since the collective agreement. Figures have also been mentioned. I'll deal with that later. First of all, I would like to say a word about the organisation of the inspection and about our approach. You may or may not know it, but the laws on discrimination do not really mention so many specific forms of discrimination. There are, however, a number of them which can be criminally punished, but they are fairly narrowly defined. Let me give you an example, so you will understand immediately. Both the gender law, the discrimination between men and women, and the general law on discrimination, can only talk about offences when we have been able to prove in writing that there has been a crime that has been found to have caused discrimination. In that context, referring to the articles of the Criminal Code, "Engagement" means that there must have been a certain amount of publicity, a certain amount of disclosure. The typical example of "initiation" is a poster for recruitments along the motorway with the indication "not immigrants." Another incrimination is to give a commission to the Court of Justice of the European Communities. But taking orders to take orders is not the same as discrimination itself. I'm playing it a little bit of criminal law right now. There is an essential difference for us. Under these two provisions of discrimination, we cannot punish the fact of the discrimination itself or conduct an investigation into it leading to punishment. We have to prove effectively that this is an incentive or an order for discrimination. Unlike most labour-related infringements, it is not just infringements that have sufficient moral element in themselves. In the case of discrimination, we must prove a special purpose. We have to prove that the real aim was to attract people effectively through publicity and to encourage discrimination. The anti-racism law, which also contains anti-discrimination provisions, has the same offences, but the mere fact of discrimination is punishable in itself, especially as regards discrimination based on ethnic origin, nationality and so on. There too, however, we must take account of the particular design that is required. It's not just the fact in itself. We really have to prove that there is a real intention and so on criminal law. That is why the law should not only look at the penal provisions, because the law on discrimination is very complex and has created many other instruments at the time, which were intended to help the victims of discrimination to remove the harm and disadvantage, especially in the civil field. In the context of civil proceedings, the legislation has created many opportunities for a civil court to fall back on its feet in order to overcome the suffering and misery or to take action. I would just like to mention a few measures. He can order the nullity of clauses in a contract, pronounce damages, pronounce an order of strike which can be very efficient, but in my knowledge almost never happens.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. The ban on reprisals, which was incorporated into the law, is also very important: if a person is dismissed because of his involvement in such an investigation and he has registered as a victim, many measures can be taken in his interest, such as a dismissal ban, a dismissal fee and so on. There is also the principle of shifting the burden of proof. All this relates to civil law. The inspection looked at the matter in 2007 to determine its approach. We were already a little on the limits of our criminal jurisdiction because of the limited infractions. On top of that were the enormous problems of proof: how can one prove it on purpose. Another aspect was whether our approach would achieve the objective of the law, knowing that the legislator has put a lot of emphasis on means, which are corrective, but civil in nature. We then started negotiating and talking to a few partners, which we have also found. This has led to a cooperation agreement between the inspection body and the Centre for Equal Opportunities and the fight against racism, now known as the Interfederal Equal Opportunities Centre. We have also concluded another cooperation protocol with the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men. The first agreement came in 2010 and the second in 2014. The purpose of that cooperation protocol was to share expertise together and allow them to provide us with the expertise from their daily practice, in order to be able to conduct effective investigations. That is the knowledge-sharing. Another aspect, however, was even more important. The threshold for submitting notifications and complaints to the inspection is very high. We get very few complaints from the outside world, from employees and from potential applicants. That's probably partly because of ignorance. On the other hand, thanks to its operation, facilities, knowledge and accessibility, the Interfederal Equalities Centre has much more impact and receives much more reports and complaints. The cooperation protocol agreed that the Interfederal Equal Opportunities Centre and the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men would pass on their complaints to us as far as possible, after having first thoroughly dissected them and verified whether they were well founded and contained sufficient evidence. They could then pass the files on to us, no matter what happened from that time on. The intention of this complaint treatment with support by the two major centres mentioned was not primarily to sanction. After all, I hear the word enforcement here. I really have to make an exception, because it was not our intention to go criminally against the wall, to recommend prosecutions and to draw up minutes. I just need to correct. One report has been drawn up because the case was too grim. It was a report of proceedings against a company which directly discriminated openly. However, this is also discussed in conjunction with the Inter-Federal Equal Opportunities Centre. It will then be examined in which cases which strategy is the best way of working. They therefore also provide effective support for the files. We have trained specialists within our inspection. There are such specialists in every region. They have received training, even by the Inter-Federal Equal Opportunities Centre, in terms of methodology, equality of interrogation and detection methods. However, the inspection shall cease as soon as it produces a final report. The aim is therefore not to draw up a report but to produce a final report, which has been upholstered as far as possible. We have a complete checklist, which inspectors have to gather together, almost like an official bailiff. They have to establish the pure facts. This report is delivered to the Inter-Federal Equal Opportunities Centre as well as to the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men. With that report, it can examine, in consultation with its legal service, what the value is, where the evidence of the elements is, what it can do and what the strategy is. That strategy can go in different directions. In many cases one can respond to the one who discriminates. One can intercede. He can be addressed and negotiated, which often happens when it comes to employers. Often discrimination occurs at a lower level and the employer often does not know and is often not even involved at the highest hierarchical level. The discrimination then occurs at the level of a team boss or master guest and this must be made negotiable, which is also often the case. That stays under the radar. It's not visible. It is not seen to appear in the press either. Let me give you an example of a case on which we, together with the Inter-Federal Equal Opportunities Centre, have had an inspector working for three months. In the works council, with the trade unions, he met systematically every month in a working group to obtain in a very large undertaking that a prayer room would be set up, with the agreement and respect of everyone. It was a question of discrimination within the employment relationship. The problem was blocked within the works council. Those negotiations have taken place with the Interfederale Geijkekansencentrum. In criminal matters, a very different approach is being taken than in an ordinary civil law approach, which means that the Interfederal Equal Opportunities Centre is primarily trying to do something on the basis of the inspection reports. This often happens actively and proactively, but also reactively. People try to break the discussion with an employer. They are trying to initiate procedures and draw up action plans. We are not in favour of a criminal approach, because of the presumption of innocence and because of the burden of proof. For us, these are huge problems. That is why I would also like to make a small correction to the figures reported. I checked it out. For the last three years, from 2012 to last year, we have dealt with and delivered 61 discrimination cases with the Interfederal Equal Opportunities Centre. For enforcement, we are referring back to the Centre, because we have made the agreement that we do not produce minutes, for the technical, legal and criminal reasons that it is very difficult to enforce the prosecution. You should also know that the labour auditors and prosecutors must also be prepared and convinced to take certain minutes. The Interfederal Equal Opportunities Centre ensures a very good selection and supporting the complaints. We treat them as best we can and collect all the material and the facts and we offer them them. The biggest problem we have experienced from the inspection in recent years, and it continues to persist, which is so deeply frustrating for people, is not so much the discrimination that occurs during or in the implementation of an employment relationship. What takes place in the workplace is usually manageable and does not take on such proportions. Employers who employ, for example, people of other ethnic origin are employers who have already discovered in themselves that it is sometimes interesting to use these competences. Those are in themselves employers who have sufficient openness in mind, who are open to those things. Nevertheless, there may be friction in the workplace and discrimination is at a lower level. Those things are easier to control by simply entering into dialogue with that company. In some cases we do so ourselves, in most cases we leave it to the Inter-Federal Equal Opportunities Centre after we have clearly set out all the facts. However, the main problem remains access to a job, the job application. In the past, we were faced with this mainly in the broadcasting sector, where more than half of the cases involved temporary agency agencies. A large part of those files had to do with ethnic origin, people who didn't get to work because of their origins. Later, for a piece, sexual orientation was added. However, this situation has greatly improved for temporary agency agencies, and the number of notifications and complaints has fallen sharply. However, it is not because there are 61 files in an investigation that there are only 61 notifications. Many cases are reported, but there is no further investigation, because it is decided in consultation with the Centre that the inspection does not need to deepen the case. These cases are likely to be dealt with at a different level. Sometimes it is enough to enter into dialogue, and in that case we leave this matter to the Centre. The biggest problems arise in interviews. When I hear about service cheques, there's a low that makes it even harder. In temporary work, where there has been much improvement, there is a triangular relationship, but the customer is often a company there. A company is usually also an employer, and it is easier to talk about it. So are we, that's our biotope. Entrepreneurs are also more susceptible to such cases. In the service cheque sector, however, we are dealing with individuals as customers. A private individual is an individual in itself. If we were to be asked to carry out proactive research into individuals, I would say that the questioner does not know what he is saying, because that is not done. The inspection is then asked to enter into the privacy of individuals, and we do not want to do so. Not only do we not want to, we cannot. I say this honestly when I hear how many people are customers of service cheque companies, apart from the problem of proof to question the individuals concerned in their homes. That is absolutely not efficient and I do not think that is the best method either. On the other hand, I believe that we will have more opportunities if we take certain actions with regard to the service cheque companies that respond to this question. That's the track to follow. Some of the actions have already been mentioned here. A code of conduct wouldn't be a bad thing. The good example of temporary work can be mentioned. You might want to check out that collective agreement. In fact, I have included some of its extracts in my text. The recognition requirement exists, but it is not enough. About practice tests, a mystery call, I can be brief. We have been asking for some kind of practical tests for ten years. But don't get me wrong. It's not in the genetic prints of the Supervision Inspection of Social Laws to conduct witch hunts. That's not how it works. As far as the practical tests are concerned, too, we believe that they should be carried out with a very limited, but thorough and appropriate framework, if they are to be introduced, also with the necessary guarantees. I can say that in the past we have heard all possible slopes, of course also slopes that have never made it. For example, we already heard the proposal to outsource the inspection to third parties, to experts. My personal opinion is who will pay for that. At least we're not. Will a budget envelope be released to pay experts? Justice, at the moment, cannot even pay its own interpreters, so let us be serious about that. Who's best suited to do something like that? When I put the question to my inspectors, they have no problem with it. They are 100% deontologically framed: they have the Social Criminal Code in which everything is arranged, they have a code of conduct. They need to do all the actions they take. There are sometimes quite a few other powers that go beyond a mystery call in social law, doing things that they may do in an investigation very meticulous, well measured and well-considered, with all due caution and nuances. Here is what is stated in the Social Criminal Code as a requirement, finality, proportionality and so on. The only problem at the moment is that the Social Criminal Code, which is a bit the Bible for the social inspectors, requires those inspectors to make themselves known, to identify and to identify themselves before they start an investigation. In practice, this usually does not create a problem. By the way, the BOM law, the law on special detection methods, which you probably all know, allows for very limited exceptions, but very carefully balanced and limited. This is done exceptionally in the event of serious suspicions of serious social fraud. We are also asking, I have an idea, we already have a proposal in the administration that we may be able to work out, but we are waiting to see what the political debate will bring about. The introduction of a reporting obligation could also help. If you would like to introduce a practical test, forget to link it to an obligation to go to proactive detectives, to achieve annual targets, because then you will only get a witch hunt. We are not going to be able to do that either, which is impossible. The inspection service supervises the right to strike, all collective agreements and all labour laws and deals with combating social fraud and social dumping. I do not need to draw a picture of you, if you look at that volume and you still have so many thousands of checks to do with service cheque companies and their users through mystery calls, we simply cannot do that. We propose that this should be done in a very targeted way, in consultation with the actors who are already there, such as the Centre, and that this should focus in particular on the complaints and signals that are already there. If there are reports or complaints, for example through the Institute or the Centre, we can take them. With regard to the probative force, that must be well framed. There must be restrictions and conditions in social criminal law. I say this primarily in order to ensure legal certainty for everyone, that is our axiom, but also to provide good guidance to the social inspectors, so that they know how far they can go. There must be no entrapment. I've heard a lot of talk about that lately, but what does that mean? Can you tell me when this is about entrapment and when it isn't? Well, then you need to go to criminal law specialists and study the phenomenon of entrapment more closely. One can only speak of entrapment when the service cheque company effectively and effectively responds to the user's request. Only then will there be a real entrapment. If we limit a mystery call to the ordinary information question, before an agreement is concluded, you may be willing or you may be able to call on............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Does this have any particular probative force? Does this mean that the inspection automatically collected all the evidence to sanction, which is already difficult, or to have the judicial evidence around? No, this is a starting point, a clue. It's a tendency or a suspicion that's been exposed. That could be the start of a more focused investigation. Then we can confront these people. We can even ask for documents from all the applications. If, in this way, a problem is exposed and admitted, then one cannot condemn those people. What kind of judge is gonna convict him like that? With the exception of an extreme case, people will be persuaded, followed up, given means and determined to change their intentions. They can turn to the broadcasting sector. The Centre may provide support, facilities and training. There are plenty of possibilities. That is my brief contribution to this debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic104x.u11	Thank you for your presentation, Mr Vanden Broeck, and for answering a number of suggestions in the presentation of the Minority Forum. I give the floor to Mr Tom Bevers. Mr.Bevers is a general adviser to the SPF Employment, Labour and Social Concertation, Labour and Labour Market Studies Division. I think he's known for monitoring. This monitoring was carried out to assess the current situation, including with regard to discrimination. Mr Bevers, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic104x.u12	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the title of today's hearing is "The problem of discrimination in the labour market'. When we look at the figures, we see that our labour market is indeed characterised by relatively large differences. When we look at the proportion of people with jobs within different population groups, we see that only the difference between men and women is clearly below the European average, although Denmark is doing even better. The difference between the low-skilled and the highly skilled is large for us, 10 percentage points higher than in Luxembourg. The difference between the 40s and the 60s on the labour market is even huge. The difference on the basis of nationality is also large. I shall come back to that, because nationality is far from saying everything. We must also look at the origins. So we're doing twice as bad as the EU average and four times as bad as Luxembourg. The inhabitants of our country are clearly not equal for the labour market. In other words, the labour market distinguishes and discriminates against some groups. Moreover, all those groups that are struggling are not homogeneous. I told you, nationality doesn't tell the whole story. That is why, in the report "Socio economic monitoring" published by the FPS Employment in 2013 together with the Equal Opportunities Centre, we started to look at its origins. We have statistically defined that origin as the first nationality of the parents. We see a big difference between people of Belgian origin, with an employment rate of 74 %, and people of foreign origin, with the exception of the group of other Europeans, people from Russia and the surrounding area, with an activity rate of 38 %. We also see large differences between groups of people of foreign origin and they become even greater if we further split up by gender, residence or other characteristics, as we do in the report. Moreover, we must bear in mind that all these groups are not equally spread across the labour market either. In the graph, we see the proportion of people from non-EU origin by sector. We can see that up to nine times more people from non-EU origin work in the hospitality sector or in the broadcasting sector than in petrochemicals. This immediately raises the question of which sector treats a disadvantaged group most unequally. Is that the sector where they are working, but they do not always get the same opportunities, or is that the sector where the group has not been able to get in or barely get in? Moreover, the story of some sectors is complex. We know that temporary work can be a springboard for a more sustainable job. This is a springboard where young people of Belgian origin make more use of it than young people of foreign origin as we see on the graph. The red line at the top shows the people of Belgian origin. People of strange origin still need that springboard at a later age, or they can't seem to make the jump to a permanent job so that the broadcasting sector becomes a kind of safety net for them or perhaps for some people a trap too. Again, no black and white story. This slide seems clear. It is from the same OECD report that the people of the Minority Forum used and published by the OECD at the beginning of last month. This graph shows differences in the efficacy rate between people born inside and outside the country. Well, that difference is only greater in the Netherlands, Sweden and Denmark. However, these are countries where many more people work than here, where many more people are working. That immediately explains the difference with the graph we saw earlier. The situation in absolute terms is therefore much less favourable to us than it is to us. In Luxembourg, Hungary and Slovakia, those born outside the country are doing a lot better than those born inside the country. Striking remark: in a survey of racism and xenophobia among the population a few years ago, Hungary turned out to be the most uncomfortable country and the Netherlands when it turned out to be the country where people are least inclined to racism. Or whatever this story is less black and white than it might seem. Where do all these differences come from? Of course, we have seen it several times today, there is direct discrimination in the labour market. Some employers simply don't want older people, some don't want women, some don't want longhairs. It has been shown several times that some employers deliberately do not recruit people of foreign origin. There's been enough research on that. The study of the Minority Forum that we have already discussed today has clearly confirmed that employers who employ many people of foreign origin often respond to the demand of their customers not to send them to them. The question is whether this kind of discrimination by employers would be more common among us than in other countries. There's no indication of that so far. Perhaps to go to chemistry again: would a company like BASF have a different recruitment policy with us than in Germany? If it is not just the employer, the system itself appears to be discriminatory and will lead to fewer low-skilled people, fewer elderly people, fewer long-term unemployed and fewer people of foreign origin, without necessarily having to do something individually. We call that indirect discrimination, but that is not always the happiest term, because it is not possible to point fingers at someone. It is useful to compare it with education in this area. We see great differences in educational outcomes between our country and other countries, especially in Flanders, large differences between pupils with and without migration backgrounds. Of course, this also explains, to a large extent, the differences in the labour market that we have already discussed. Now there is undoubtedly a racist teacher here or there, just as there are racist employers. But does this graph, which we see here, mean that the Flemish teachers, just like the Finnish and French, discriminate strongly against foreign students, while fellow students in other countries, again: Hungary, but also Australia, would just favour foreign pupils? That would, all in all, be very surprising. So we are talking about a complex problem that is linked to other disadvantaged situations in our labour market. As far as people of foreign origin are concerned, there is clearly a link with the backwardness of the low-skilled. If we look at the policy recommendations from three different sources: the 2013 monitoring report of the FPS and the Equal Opportunities Centre, which will be updated in September of this year, the OECD or the European Commission reports we received last month, then we see that they are very similar and focus on tackling discrimination, but also on equal opportunities in education, integration and diversity policies and on the need for structural reform of our labour market. Finally, if we look at the recommendations in a little more detail, the overlap between the three reports becomes even clearer. Discrimination must be tackled, but no one believes that this will completely eliminate the backlog. That is why mobility in the labour market needs to be increased, because where people do not change jobs or sectors, we do not see enough dynamism and newcomers do not get opportunities. More mobility is also needed to avoid creating a labour market that is very divided between good jobs on the one hand and bad jobs on the other. Ensuring more access opportunities requires springboards to the labour market. Lower labour costs for newcomers in the labour market, especially the low skilled among them, appear to be the key to this in many countries. We must also pay attention to gender differences within migrant groups. In order to create more work for all groups in difficulty, a reduction in the tax on labour is necessary. There are also differences between the recommendations. The OECD calls for targets, especially in the public sector, while our report expresses the fear that quotas could lead, for example, to employ people of foreign origin in chemistry, but only as maintenance workers and not as engineers. Finally, we also warn about a target group policy with specific measures such as the solution. The first slide already showed that it is not a target group problem but a structural problem in our labour market. Moreover, in Brussels, two thirds of the population are of foreign origin. That is not a target group in the labour market, that is the Brussels labour market. Target group measures may therefore not be the right answer to structural problems. Structural problems must be solved with structural measures. As I have already said, discrimination must, of course, continue to be combated and prosecuted. If you would like to read more, I would like to refer you to the reports, which you can find through this slide.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic104x.u13	Thank you for your explanation, Mr Bevers. Ladies and gentlemen, we have heard five interesting speakers, with a number of figures and suggestions. I suggest that we now hold a round for your questions and suggestions. Then the panel gets a chance to answer. Mrs. Demir, may I begin with you?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic104x.u14	Mr President, first of all I would like to thank the gentlemen, because they are all men who have come to speak on the subject of discrimination, for their extensive speeches. I had a lot of questions. Some of that has already been answered. I would just like to point out that I am 35 years old and that there has been talk of discrimination in the labour market for 20 years and it is said that immigrants are discriminated against. It's a theme I've been following for a long time. I think we should get to work on it now. The time of merely talking about discrimination is actually long past. At the same time, I would like to point out that we must be careful and that we must not limit the problem of the low employment rate of immigrants to discrimination. Agreed, as a committee, we need to consider a legal framework to effectively tackle direct discrimination. It does have to stop. We must therefore look at the means by which we can tackle this problem. But I want to avoid this at the same time, and I believe that Wouter Van Bellingen will agree that the problem should be reduced to discrimination. I am convinced that there is indeed discrimination in the labour market. I think that we should say this clearly and that we should address them, but there are other problems. For example, access to the labour market is difficult for that group. This has to do with the rigidity of the labour market. For example, I did not agree with the abolition of the trial period. The way in which it is turned, both for immigrants and employers, plays very often that unknown is unloved. Perhaps the employers have certain prejudices, or perhaps they are a little afraid: if I were to recruit them, they would be okay with the other colleagues in the workplace. I am therefore very sorry that the trial period has been abolished. I really believe that the trial period can just serve to give that group, which is struggling in the labour market, an effective chance. In short, there is discrimination and a rigid labour market. Moreover, as the OECD has often said in its reports, there is the failing migration policy. We must not put our heads in the sand, there has been a passive migration policy for years, and the passive migration of people who have not come here to work has proved to be detrimental to the ethnic group. In short, I see it rather as a complex problem, not just as a problem of discrimination. It's not just about discrimination. There is, of course, discrimination and we must tackle it. I have heard very useful things here, but I have a specific question for Mr Vanden Broeck. Since 2010, there has been a cooperation agreement between the inspection and the Centre for Equality of Opportunities and Combating Racism. However, I found it very strange that you do not draw up pvvs, but you do support the Centre. Even as a lawyer, I find that very bizarre. I always thought that the inspection would be carried out and that there would be no discrimination. Apparently, there are complaints coming in to the Centre. It is also very important that they are brought in and dealt with, but I do not understand why the inspection, which is nevertheless an important control body and has certain powers in this area, does not produce any complaints. For me, that's a flashing light. Could you please clarify why you're not drawing up pvprs? We have different laws on discrimination. If you say you're not making any pvvs, I'm falling off my chair. In that case, I believe that we have a major problem with the effective approach to discrimination. There has been a cooperation agreement since 2010. What are the results of that? What did it lead to?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic104x.u15	Mr President, first of all, I would like to thank the various speakers. It is clear that this theme is important. We have seen through your interventions that discrimination is a reality. The different forms of discrimination – some have, moreover, placed more emphasis on one or the other – pose a problem of inclusion with the risks of poverty generated by exclusion from work. Last week, we had hearings in the fight against poverty. Both themes have elements of rapprochement. How? I have not heard a miracle solution in these various interventions. Even if some advocate self-regulation, I believe that this will not be resolved naturally, but through legislative measures, effective controls and appropriate sanctions. One speaker spoke of proportionate and dissuasive sanctions. I would like more information on this. How can these proportionate and dissuasive penalties be defined? My other question is about situation tests. How could the inspection perform them better? How could it be done, at both legislative and practical levels, to ensure that these situational tests are useful and convincing? These are some thoughts and questions in this first round.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic104x.u16	Mr President, first of all I would like to thank the speakers for their speech and for the time they have taken. Soon we will hear a number of interesting speakers. I think it has already been said and I can only confirm it: the problem of discrimination has existed for a very long time. I myself have a little more experience in politics than Zuhal Demir, and the problem has been dragging on for some thirty years. What I find today is that no one is questioning that point anymore. I have not heard a single speaker say that there is no problem of discrimination. That's a good thing! No one wants to cover it up. Mrs Demir, there are, of course, other causes, and we will not hide them either. I don't think any of us or your asking party is going to push people who, for example, aren't competent into a particular job. This concerns the group which does meet the criteria, including in the services sector as cleaning aid, but which is still discriminated against because of nationality or origin. My party also believes that it should be done with only analysis. We must also consider what measures we have already taken and why they have had or have not had any effect. Above all, we must address the gaps in the law. These include practical tests such as mystery calling. What possibilities does the inspection have to do, in cooperation with the sector? Of course, my party wants to strongly condemn discrimination. In a good anti-discrimination policy, prevention and awareness are important. We also say that this is just the beginning and certainly not the end point. We also know that some of the population and entrepreneurs can be persuaded through awareness raising and prevention. In this respect, I would like to say that the government and the Centre for Equal Opportunities and Combating Racism have already launched a number of campaigns. Mr Muyldermans pointed out that it was the responsibility of the government to conduct campaigns. The government does that all the time. Perhaps further efforts could be made, in addition to prevention and mediation. The Interfederal Equal Opportunities Centre and the inspection services are also doing some of what they are doing, i.e. exploring the possibility of remediation. In the end, however, there will always have to be a final piece, namely an enforcement policy. If there is repeated discrimination and if the problem continues to arise in some sectors, one cannot simply continue to warn. At some point there has to be a stick behind the door. That is why it is our view that discrimination should be addressed. I have also heard the inspection today say that it is impossible for it to go anywhere on site. However, we ask that the government, including the inspection, take on a task. The problem cannot be left to the sector alone. That is why it is right that the sector should take the initiative in particular, which has also worked. In the interim sector, we see very good examples in this area. It is also good that collective agreements can be concluded. That's a good thing. However, it is important that the public authorities also take up their role in this area and, together with the sector to which they should give priority. It is also important that sanctions are applied. I have a few more questions. I noted earlier that it was stated that there was a difference between inciting discrimination, ordering discrimination and discrimination itself. That was indicated by Mr Muyldermans. That is true, but, if I am not mistaken, the three forms, regardless of whether they are inciting, ordering or the act of discrimination itself, are ultimately punishable. In one case, the anti-racism law and in the other case the anti-discrimination law are applied. It is not true, however, that we simply have to look at discrimination and do nothing about it. I also agree with Mr Muyldermans, who said that the public authorities should make greater use of existing discrimination in large parts of the population. Nevertheless, I remain of the opinion that I believe I have understood his interpretation correctly................................................................................................................................................................................. That is where the main task lies, therefore, of service cheque companies and other companies. After all, I want to make the issue wider than just discrimination against service cheque companies. Even if there are prejudices and discrimination among the population, it is wrong and not done that an employer or a mediator in one way or another takes up the question of discrimination. We can respond to that, because if the companies did not want to go into the practice test of the Minority Forum because they cannot or because they do not want to do so, then there was no problem. It is now noted that some service cheque companies do address the question of discrimination. In this sense, they are also guilty of discrimination. I also believe that it is a task of the sector to combat this discrimination and prejudice. I would like to have some more explanation about the fact that no report is made because this is very difficult in legal terms. I know that this problem is not so easy, but I was surprised that no report is being made. It is a good thing that the Centre is working together and that agreements are made to deal with the problem. I also welcome the fact that, in some cases, the first attempt is made to resolve the problem internally or through mediation, but ultimately the complaints must be taken seriously and action must be taken where necessary. The Minority Forum, Federgon and inspection services are launching a number of similar proposals. The Minority Forum and SIOD advocate a collective agreement, a code of conduct, for practical tests. That's a good thing. We are in favour of practical tests, as I have already said here in Parliament. Practical tests and mystery shopping are already possible today. It's used by the sector. It's not yet used by the social inspection. I see the economic inspection is already doing mystery shopping. The legislation already allows practical tests and mystery shopping today, but this must of course be done within a well-defined framework. Our party is in favour of refining this. After all, we want the public authorities to take action in certain cases. It should be possible. It must not be the case that we keep our hands off it. In this sense, I am pleased to hear Mr Vanden Broeck say that there has been a concrete proposal, which the SIOD has been advocating for ten years, and that we have been waiting for this moment to come out. Perhaps later you could explain exactly what that proposal means and whether there is a need for legal clarification. I believe that our legislation offers sufficient scope to deal with this. It would be good if we could also introduce the practice of mystery shopping of mystery calling to the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic104x.u17	Mr President, in my turn I would like to thank the speakers for the interesting explanations and for the statistical figures we have received. I would also like to refer to the opinion of the chairman of the committee, together with Mr Somers, who is in the newspaper today, which is an interesting starting point for the debate from our party and group. Discrimination must not be underestimated. It is a serious problem which is often present outside the service cheque companies and in which context the broadcasting sector has already made a great deal of efforts. Nevertheless, the problem remains. I would like to go into more detail about the statistics and figures in the presentation of the Minority Forum. I have also seen the reaction of the VVSG, Mrs Debast, this afternoon. I read in a press release that only 14 out of 169 OCMW service cheque companies and 9 out of 139 PWA offices were questioned through mystery calling. I'd like to get a reaction to that. A second question concerns the methodology. I am amazed at the hallucinating figures that have been put forward. You claim that two thirds are indirect discrimination or indirectly addressing discriminatory questions. What exactly is that? How exactly did you measure that? I myself checked with a number of service cheque companies in the public and private sector and asked what their response was. A number of OCMW service cheque companies tell me that they always try to sensitise the people who come up with such a demand first, but that it usually ends with the fact that there is a shortage of supply on that market and that, if they do not accept that cleaning aid, they will not get any help either. So there is not that much choice for the customer either. Is a diplomatic response from a consultant that he will not be able to help until later or even later, because if one does not accept this aid, there is no one available, indirectly discriminatory or is that one of the positive cases? I therefore wonder which answer you consider discriminatory or not. I'm interested in that. What I also find interesting, because it is in line with some of the calls I made with service cheque companies, is that in this sector gender is actually a more important factor for discrimination than ethnic origin. Just now I put a tweet in that sense and someone answered all that men are not very good at cleaning. We are laughing at that in fact, but that too is a form of a different treatment based on gender. This seems to be a problem, especially in this sector. As far as ethnic origin is concerned, it turns out that there is a core of people who are really having a hard time with people of a different origin, and that really needs to be totally condemned. However, I often hear that the root cause, especially for the public sector, is often linguistic knowledge. Older people who call on a public service cheque company also see this as a form of social contact. They ask whether the employee concerned can speak Dutch and once that threshold has been exceeded, it will succeed. So it's a little more complex than that. So my question is how exactly you carried out the measurement and whether there are specific subdivisions in that category, so that the figures are more specific. I think this is important if we are to be able to frame the debate properly and to be able to conduct it objectively.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic104x.u18	Mr President, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, I would also like to thank all the speakers, particularly the Minority Forum, for carrying out this research, which is the reason for the debate we are having today. I have several questions, but some of my questions have already been asked and I will not repeat them. I would like to add three more questions to the debate. When the research was published, there were many interviews, debates on radio and television and letters of readers were published. I was particularly impressed by the reaction of someone who said that he does not discriminate, but only asks that the person he employs is powerful in the language. That person thinks he doesn't discriminate. We have been given a fun game here that gives a good example of people who are not powerful in the language, but who can clearly indicate what the job is. I would have liked to have received a response, both from the Minority Forum and from Mr Muyldermans, the inspection and the government. How do you see that? Is this discrimination or not, and what are your comments? I was also surprised that, as Mr Demir said, you do not report to the inspection. I am not going to repeat the question, but I would have liked to have a little more explanation. How do you guys see that? To Federgon, Mr Muyldermans, you started your speech with a call. You said it was a task of everyone and you called on everyone to come along and find a solution. The broadcasting sector has already taken several steps to improve this issue. Still, I'm a little surprised that you're not making the mystery calls you're organizing yourself public or transparent. I take your word for it when you say that 25% of the answers are still positive in terms of discrimination. I have seen clearly in the study of the Minority Forum what profile they have drawn up of the mystery call they have commissioned. That is a modal citizen, a family with two children, but a person is actually wanted for the parents. What profile do you use? Is that constantly a different profile because I understand you do that research every two years? What's the profile you use at the temporary agency for your mystery calls? You also said it's important to your customers because they get a label. Could you tell me if there are any people who may have lost the label as a result of your investigation? How many people are we talking about? I was also a little surprised that you ended your speech by saying that you do not really know what inspection is responsible for that. You said Economic Inspection or not, but you are not legally capable of doing so. After the inspection's presentation, I have a lot of questions of my own. So I don't blame you, but I'm looking for a little more clarity. It is indeed up to the inspection to clarify this. A penultimate question to the inspection service. Mrs Lanjri has also mentioned that it has been possible to carry out practical tests since 2003. Associations can do that, the Centre can do that, but in practice this is still far too little. Actually, not much has happened to it yet. In my view, the inspection service seems to be the ideal service for carrying out these practical tests. On the one hand, you have clearly indicated that you do not have the resources to do so and that you cannot afford to do so. On the other hand, do you say that your inspection services are well trained and that they are either misunderstood or I have misunderstood the explanation? If the practical tests were carried out by the inspection service, how many resources and people do you need? Could you give us a little more explanation on that? My final question is addressed to the FPS Employment. I found Mr Muyldermans' appeal to work on the responsibility of citizens as well. That is indeed a task for the government and a campaign "Discrimination" is Dom... indeed doesn't sound so stupid. Have there been government campaigns in the past to hold citizens responsible for discrimination? If so, how often and when?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic104x.u19	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I welcome the initiative to hold these hearings, and I hope I am not naive, because this story of discrimination in the labour market has been going on for a long time, the figures have been there for a long time, which makes the history outlined by the Minority Forum clear. I do hear a certain consensus here, although I have to read a little more between the lines than with the others. I am very pleased that Mrs Lanjri from CD&V said that she is in favour of practical tests. I hope, as is stated in your opinion, Mr President, that the momentum will indeed be used to finally take action and go beyond what exists today. The Federal Government's agreement was already promising in this area: "The government will monitor the promotion of access to the labour market and the fight against discrimination. It maintains zero tolerance on discrimination, particularly in the labour market. Unfortunately, and I have already mentioned this, the policy paper on work does not contain the word discrimination at all. There is, however, recognition of the fact that there is too low an employment rate, but no action is linked to it. Once again, I am looking forward to the outcome of this hearing and this debate here. What is already happening in the areas of sensitisation, prevention and self-regulation is certainly in order, important steps have already been taken, but it is clearly not enough. There is indeed a need for such a closure. I believe that there are two discussions here. First of all, on the test of practice, I should like to agree to do something about this. Secondly, what is being done with the results of the criminal and civil test? What is happening in the area of conciliation? The actual identification of discrimination and the creation of an opportunity to provide the burden of proof are the most important discussions. For us, as far as the practical test is concerned, it is not a question of examining the possibilities for this, but of at last providing legal basis for it. The political will for this seems to be there. It is also a question of Europe. In recent years, two other federal inspection services have been expanded in the context of consumer protection. It shows that something is definitely possible. Those who really mean it in the fight against discrimination can only put the practical tests on the table. We control a great deal in our society: the speed of traffic, food, social fraud, the unemployed and so on. It is important to take action in this area as well and to take steps forward. Mr Muyldermans, you said that the customer is the biggest problem. So the problem really lies with the customer. Then why is there a notification under the collective agreement and not to the public authorities, but only internally? To your remark that the biggest problem lies with the customer, I still have a critical note. Eventually, that's the only thing that was investigated. You say that there is no problem with recruitment, but no investigation has yet been carried out. You have also given figures on the volume of work, according to origin. If an immigrant cleaning woman gets less hours, it also has consequences for the building up of her social rights. So it seems very interesting to me to find out how many people work compared to people with roots in our country. I agree with Mrs Kitir on the report on mystery shopping. That's a very interesting report. Why isn't it public? I'd like to see it. Mr Vanden Broeck, I don't know if you can paint this, but I'm curious. I have already mentioned the two extensions of other federal inspection services in 2013 and 2014 in the context of consumer protection. What do you think are the most important factors why this story would be more complex or more difficult? You have already raised a number of issues, but I would like to hear the main factors. I am also curious about your proposal, which is also referred to in the PowerPoint presentation of the Minority Forum in response to a question from Mrs De Coninck. You want to wait for the political debate, but I was wondering if we could have access to the proposal that your services seem to have already developed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic104x.u20	I would like to add a few more things. First of all, I would like to express my thanks for the interesting presentation, which was both comprehensive and concise. First of all, my fellow Members, the Minority Forum points out that, under Article 52 (3) of the 2007 anti-discrimination law, it is intended that the Legislative Chambers, the Chamber of Representatives and the Senate, which no longer exists, should review the legislation every five years. That didn't happen at all. However, it is our damn duty to do so. I therefore ask the Secretaries to see how we can plan this in our work and what instruments we could use to carry out the evaluation. After all, I do not think we have enough knowledge and skills to do them autonomously, so we need to organise this. Thank you for that. We will not wait until 2017, otherwise we will be ten years later. I also have a comment on Mr Muyldermans's speech by Federgon. Ladies and gentlemen, you have noticed that temporary work has taken serious steps forward. That says not only the sector, but also Mr Vanden Broeck from the inspection. Well, that's interesting in itself. However, when I look at the figures for your two rounds of mystery calls, Mr Muyldermans, it appears that there is only 4% discrimination in large companies, but there is still 40% discrimination in small and medium-sized enterprises. 40% discrimination! The steps you take with the action plan and the reduction of the quality label are positive, but I have two questions for you. Do you see possibilities to work with a reporting obligation, in which you would report the names of those who persistently violate the rules to the government? In this way, we could, if necessary with the inspection, take action against those persistent offenders. That is my second point. It is one thing to lose the quality label, but the company can still function. A company which is found to be discriminated against in 40% of cases by your own organisation is nevertheless a serious problem. Firstly, are you prepared to provide more transparency about your research? Of course, we can look at the conditions under which this happens. If so, you can deliver names to the government without reading them in the press. That can be agreed upon. Secondly, what are your views on the system of practical tests, which could complement your self-regulation? For example, practical tests would not be carried out throughout the sector, but only in that segment, or in those companies, which everyone knows there is a problem. I also have a few questions for you, Mr Vanden Broeck. Firstly, what strikes me is that you said in your speech that there is a lack of legislation. You said that the legislation is very strict, inter alia, because only inciting discrimination and ordering it to discriminate is punishable, but the discrimination as such is not, at least according to the current discrimination law and the gender law. In addition, special design is needed. May I draw your attention to the fact that you think that we should review this legislation and that we should, if necessary, better define the criminality, so that the criminal court can also effectively prosecute for discrimination. Secondly, may I draw your attention to the fact that, so far, there has been no criminal conviction for discrimination in our country since the 2007 law? None? I don't know. Our Justice Specialist isn't here. Is it true that there hasn't been a single conviction? I conclude from what you have said that there are no minutes. If there are no minutes, I suppose there are no convictions either. If that is the reality, ladies and gentlemen, this means that no one has been convicted in our country in the eight years since the law on discrimination and criminal penalties existed. If that is the reality, ladies and gentlemen, there is a serious problem. Thirdly, Mr Vanden Broeck, is it useful to review the instruments? You say that there is above all a problem of discrimination in recruitment. Is it useful not only to look at service cheques and temporary agency work, but also to look at other labour market actors? Should we confine ourselves to service cheques and temporary agency work, or should we also examine other companies and sectors in order to combat discrimination in all areas? Fourthly and finally, Mr Vanden Broeck, you say that we do not want to act against the individual customer or citizen. I think there is an understanding of that in this committee. But my personal opinion, ladies and gentlemen, is that it is too easy to combat discrimination that is initiated by an individual citizen only through sympathetic preventive campaigns. I also think that it is the penal law that provides that a citizen who discriminates or initiates discrimination should be sanctioned, where appropriate. The problem, as Mr Muyldermans said, is correct: the problem begins with racism, with people. The customer, that's a civilian. When we opened the debate last week following the report of the Minority Forum, I was amazed how many people on social media think it is normal to discriminate, that they say: I do not want that kind of people. There were even people who said, but that is indeed a legitimate question from Mrs Kitir: I demand that that person can speak Dutch. Are you allowed to ask that question, or are you not allowed to ask that question? A very fair question, so I would like to repeat it. The final comment on Mr Bevers, in relation to your report. You said you'd update the report by the end of the year. It is not your store immediately, but how do you look at the proposal launched by Mr Vanden Broeck in relation to the practical tests? Do you see a possibility from your experimental experience with abroad? Do you know of other European countries with certain instruments where this discrimination is combated much more usefully or more efficiently? I know that in the Netherlands and Sweden the mystery calls or practical tests have been used for statistical purposes, to produce reports. Are there countries in Europe where they are used effectively to act, models on which we could base ourselves? Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to conclude and thank you all. I note from the interventions of opposition and a majority that our committee is prepared to find solutions after the many analyses and discussions. I would ask you not to pin us down on symbols or certain terms, but to look for instruments that we can use, that the inspection can use and that are also legal, in order to avoid falling into serious and serious problems. Perhaps you should also consider the following. If Mr Vanden Broeck again, at the request of a number of fellow Members, explains exactly what he means, what exactly is the inspection working on with regard to their system, what would your attitude be to that? That is the question I would like to ask you. I shall now give the floor to the panel, in the order of the speakers who have just spoken.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic104x.u21	I should like to thank the various speakers for their gratitude. Mrs Demir, I can reassure you, the investigation is not my job. We have a team of employees and I'm just the mouthpiece. Mohamed, next to me, is particularly legally strong. We're a team and a team is led by a captain. I would also like to comment on your comments on the labour market. It's an en-en-story. We note that distance from the labour market is difficult because of the rigid labour market in our country. We find that discrimination makes this even more difficult for our citizens. That is why discrimination is linked to the distance from the labour market. The OECD, like us, is therefore in favour of smart targets. One must also be smart and one must work this out properly. In order to reduce the distance from the labour market, we also need to look for new instruments, including targets. I've also read about quotas. I believe that it is absolutely necessary to discuss the extent to which distance from the labour market can be reduced. The labour market in Belgium is dominated by job retention and less job security. We must move from a job-preserving market to a job-preserving market. In the coming years there will still be some work to be done in this area. I would therefore like to open up today's debate to the labour market as a whole and not just discrimination. I shall come to Mrs Lanjri's question first. Mohamed will reply to Mr Daerden's question shortly. When we look at the figures for this sector that regulates itself, we see that they are dramatic. We are therefore asking for enforcement. There was a question from Mr Lachaert about the samples we did. We have addressed this methodologically, under the supervision of a professor. 75% of respondents replied. There was a non-response of 21 %. 251 companies were contacted by telephone. There was an error margin of 7.02 % which is actually very low. Of course, we have not been able to question everyone. We have done this with limited resources. I won't announce the price, but it was a figure with two zeros. We have been able to deploy our employees. We have asked the question by sector. If you want, we can provide you with this investigation. A conversation with my associate who did the research is definitely advisable. I shall come back to your question on the language question. I'll give you an example of a particular city with a particular port. We have noticed that people with a migration background cannot always go there. On the one hand, the newcomers have to deal with the language. After all, the majority of Flanders uses dialectal language at home. In a course of NT2 there is talk of a fork. When people use the word fourchette, there is a language problem. However, I am very satisfied with what has just been demonstrated here and with this afternoon's example of Family Help. It is important that, on the one hand, there are people who are born and raised here and for whom there is normally no language problem. That's obvious. However, someone from East Flanders who has to work in West Flanders also has a language problem. We must certainly be smart about this. I'm coming to what I want to give you now. Family help will be here this afternoon, too. We are asking for people who are not powerful in the language to be given an intensive language route in advance, and for those involved to be accompanied on the work floor at that time. You should ask the question this afternoon to the staff of Family Help. They have a nice instrument for that. The people are well prepared and accompanied on the spot. That gives you confidence. By accompanying people on the work floor, a relationship of trust is created and the workers concerned are very satisfied. Supporting that method is about trust. Language can sometimes be a barrier, but intensive guidance in advance within the course, even on the work floor itself, can certainly help. Language can certainly be a barrier, but should not constitute a threshold. I shall return to Mrs Kitir's question, which I have already answered indirectly. On the question of the reason for the practical tests that can be requested, I note that a few years ago the smoking ban was introduced. After years of sensitisation, we have found in the smoking ban that this sensitising because of the cost of discrimination also costs the State money, among other things because of the benefits........ is no longer acceptable. So we are moving from a moment of sensitisation to a moment of enforcement and even to a ban, which is even worse and one step further. When we find at some point that people's mentality does not change, we must take further steps. That is what we are advocating. After years of discussion, it's time for enforcement, because that's what the law says. The dramatic thing is that we have one of the best laws in the world in this area, but we are unable to apply the law. Enforcement is still a problem. We are therefore asking for enforcement. We're not a symbol file. I'm a pragmatic person. I want us to stop having the same discussion in three, four or five years' time. I want equal opportunities in the labour market by then, but also in education. I also want the debate to stop on what can and should be done. We must be able to show that we have taken steps forward and want to take the next step. I am therefore very pleased that we are also able to discuss this in the Chamber today. That's fantastic and very funny. I am also convinced, after hearing all the speakers, that the time has come. I spent months talking to the media, to VOKA, to the trade unions, to Federgon and that's more. I am convinced that now everyone is ready to take that step. It is now up to Parliament to take that step. In recent weeks, I have not heard any of the parties concerned explain that the dossier was neither important nor that the issues being proposed are insane. For the sake of clarity, I would like to point out that there is an annual report 2012 on the three issues we are proposing regarding the powers of inspection, in which the Flemish inspection states that it is no longer able to combat the issues that need to be addressed with the current instrument. Discussions with the sector show that the sector is a party to reporting, because the customer is racist or discriminates. Finally, why a collective agreement? Because the people who mean well are financially punished. The cowboys who distort competition make sure that those who mean well are not able to compete with others. Those three demands or questions we are asking are legally substantiated, supported by the sector and there is support for them in society. That is why we believe that the time has come to work on this. Then I give the floor to Mohamed Lahlali for Mr Daerden's question on the legal aspect.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic104x.u22	Mr President, you made a comment on the evaluation of the anti-discrimination law, the anti-racism law and the anti-discrimination law to combat gender discrimination. These evaluations were normally scheduled to take place in June 2012. That was also stated in the general policy paper of the previous Minister for Equal Opportunities, Mrs Milquet, who promised to do so in 2013, but that did not happen. These evaluations are now again in the general policy paper of Secretary of State Sleurs. According to her memo, she would set up a group of experts at the beginning of 2015. I therefore believe that there is a way forward, but we are afraid of it, since the previous Minister of Equal Opportunities has also made promises on this subject, which, unfortunately, did not come into the house very much. That brings me to Mr Daerden's question. The evaluation mainly deals with the effectiveness of the law. To what extent is the law effective? Mr Daerden also asked to what extent the law is dissuasive. Well, from a legal point of view, discrimination is a crime. So let us treat it as a crime. This means that the necessary sanctioning instruments must be in place and the law must also be enforced. That also means that the chance of getting caught will be great for alleged offenders. The unsub's making a cost-benefit analysis. If the unsub believes that the risk of getting caught is too great, then the behavior can be modulated. Unfortunately, as far as racism and discrimination are concerned, we see that the law is there, but the will is not. That's a very sad story. A good example of deterrent legislation is the GAS legislation. No citizen is safe from all kinds of nuisance enforcement officers anymore. Citizens know that people are being sent on the road, that they are being controlled, identified and banished. That is why anti-discrimination legislation is totally toothless. I am somewhat concerned that an enforcement agency such as the Department of Monitoring of Social Laws indicates that it does not want a witch hunt. Of course not, we are not asking for this either, but we do want the legislation to be enforced and for that there are inspection services; they are enforcement bodies. I'll run it against the health inspection. It carries out thousands of checks with anonymous inspections, up to the Ardennes, to check whether the smoking ban is being complied with in cafés. This is how results were achieved. Now people call the inspection themselves to report smoking in a café. Legislation can therefore be used to modulate behaviour, to steer a certain direction, but then the will must also be effective. From our point of view, this can be done in cooperation with the Inter-Federal Equal Opportunities Centre. We are working very closely with that too. However, I think there should be a clear definition of the task between the inspection and the centre. From a legal point of view, certain matters are not possible. It is not possible, from a legal point of view, to deal with dossiers but to dismiss them at the Inter-Federal Equal Opportunities Centre, which examines whether the content of a file is sufficient or not. That worries me. I find that problematic. There must be a very clear job definition. It has to go in the opposite direction. Complaints can be reported to the Interfederal Equal Opportunities Centre but they must send them straight to the inspection and not first do an appreciation. A second element I would like to touch is the anti-discrimination law. Just as there is still no implementing decision for the evaluation, several implementing decisions have not yet been adopted since the very short existence of the anti-discrimination law. This is the case for the implementing decision on positive actions. Mr Daerden said that he did not hear any solutions. One of the solutions to address the dramatic situation of people with a migration background, of employment opportunities groups, is that the implementing decision on positive actions will be adopted. These are specific measures that can be taken to eliminate a certain inequality, for example in the labour market. There is a very good instrument for this, particularly socio-economic monitoring. One can see perfectly where there is a problem and take the necessary positive actions. It's been seven years. The Belgian State has already twice been convicted of failing to take an implementing decision on the basis of the practical test, Article 19 of the previous anti-discrimination law. The Court of Appeal decided in 2010 that, since it concerns equal treatment rules and four years does not exceed the reasonable time limit, the Belgian State was found negligent. We've been waiting seven years for that. Someone who says he has seen in the socio-economic monitoring figures that education scores very badly, that he constantly tries to apply in education, but doesn't get a job and has a suspicion that this has to do with unequal treatment, can go to court perfectly, based on government liability. What I would like to point out in particular is that you must do something about this. I read in the general policy paper of Secretary of State Sleurs, as well as in the previous policy paper, that these positive actions would come. Minister Milquet indicated that he would wait for the results of the 2012 socio-economic monitoring. They are there and they show where there are specific problems, but the implementing act is still out. So we ask for some political courage to make that decision, because this is a problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic104x.u23	Mrs Lanjri, it must be clear that everyone must accept their responsibilities. We will never say that it is the customer who makes the mistake. Yes, we will say that the customer is also in error, but the service cheque companies and the temporary agency companies must apply the law. One cannot be an excuse for another. I should like to give you the necessary assurance in this respect as to our attitude. Mrs. Kitir, the results of our mystery calls are public. We have already had two hearings in the working committee of the Flemish Parliament. However, we do not provide individual data on individual companies. That is the agreement we have made internally and with the Minister responsible. We have already done a questioning twice about the indigenous element. The question was asked to do a survey of older people, because there is also discrimination against older people. In order to have a good basis for comparison about the evolution of the answers, it is best to retain the same criterion, in particular: native or ethnic. We have the rule that someone who has three bad grades can lose his quality label. We shall now proceed to the third round. This is the hour of truth for a number of companies. Mrs Willaert, the collective agreement stipulates that there is a notification from the consultant to the internal contact point. What's the point? We must remove such discriminatory questions from the consultant, who is in a weak position. I'm talking about temporary work right now. The files in which a clear violation was committed in the past were files which, if this had happened, would never have given rise to discrimination. That's the temporary consultant who's in touch with the production chief. It must be removed at that level and brought up to the competent persons in the temporary agency companies who dare to call the management from the customer. At that moment one must dare to say: do you want your file to be on the first page of Het Laatste Nieuws? So one has to remove that from the lower level to a higher level. We have no figures on the volume of work. I'm gonna check that out. Maybe they exist. It is true that lower qualified job seekers can be addressed both in the broadcasting sector and in the service cheque sector. This is always a stepping stone to work, especially in the broadcasting sector. We are achieving positive results there because we work at a low threshold. Mrs Demir wants to set the trial period back; temporary work has become a bit of an avant la lettre trial period. On the contrary, it is a strong point for the weaker in the labour market to gain experience. Mr President, we must be able to embed an anti-discrimination policy in companies in the company's politics. We have the least problem with multinationals, where this is an obvious fact, where it is so embedded internationally. We have more problems with SMEs. That is why we will also be acting in an internal sanctioning manner. The loss of Federgon's quality label is an important point to customers, because there are customers who only want to work with Federgon members with a quality label. Then I come to the question of reporting in the context of internal mystery calling. To that I say no, the government must organize mystery calling. We must also pursue a double objective. In many cases, managers are not even aware that such practices are taking place on the ground in the agencies. When we go to our board of directors and I tell them that, they say: this cannot be done with us, there is no such thing. That manager must then first of all be aware of the problem of rice in his holding. He will then have to conduct politics in order for those consultants to say that one sentence, namely: we do not accept this, this is not in line with the politics of the company. Practice tests as an ultimate means must be legally well-founded, because I still have my doubts, I am still not convinced. It must be an ultimate means, because this is not an obvious matter. There are 2 300 service cheque firms and so it must certainly be able to be embedded in a particular procedure. The cost of our mystery calling is 40 000 euros for 130 calls. This is very well organized, Mr Van Bellingen. Federgon doesn't do that itself, which is outsourced to specialized companies, who also do mystery calls and mystery shopping in major stores, to see if thefts happen. Practical tests should probably be the ultimate means, but don't expect too much of it. I stick to my point, we also have to take responsibility to the customer. I do not see us organising practical tests with 900 000 customers. I'm gonna focus on it, but I'm gonna let you do it here. In a broader context but this is only an element of a complete whole.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic104x.u24	A lot of questions and doubts, of course, I can fully accept that. It is also the questions and doubts raised by the inspection when it was made responsible for that very first discrimination law in 2003. That was all hands on deck, and then again in 2007. By the way, between the lines, I have to say that the 2003 law explicitly provided for the practical test. However, a KB had to be issued, which everyone was against at the time. Afterwards, that case was no longer explicitly re-entered into the law of 2007. I start with the frequently recurring question, which also expressed disbelief and sometimes also bewilderment, why there is no criminal approach and why there are no or so few pvs. Another question was whether criminal convictions were pronounced. For that, I dare not put my hand in the fire. I think there have been a few, but not necessarily on the inspection report. A criminal case can also be initiated without a report from a police department or an inspection service. In fact, it's possible that someone might take a bourgeois party or ask for an investigation from an investigating judge. In this way, too, a case can be started. I think there's been some of those cases. You may be able to hear more about this from the Inter-Federal Equal Opportunities Centre itself this afternoon. In any case, there are convictions in the civil field. For that, the law plays in a much more positive way. I refer to the civil measures laid down in the law. Someone let it slip that we have the best laws in the world. That's what I thought in 2007. They are certainly the most far-reaching laws, but in retrospect they are not the best laws. You do not hear me say that, because the civil law law offers enormous opportunities, is well-established and is very useful for civil claims. However, this does not apply to criminal law. I keep coming back to that. Social inspection services are used to dealing with social affairs and labour law, for which labour law laws and a Social Criminal Code have been made. There is a double system. If the employer commits an infringement of classical social law offences, we give a warning and a time limit or, at worst, if no correction is made, we create a CV. That's harness and impact. That's the usual technique. That's the social inspector's biotope, believe me, and all social inspection services. After that, there are again two possibilities. The police report goes to the courthouse. There are certain priorities, which are laid down in the circulars of the Attorney General. It follows the order of the most important infringements, as good or as bad as it can be. They are therefore effectively prosecuted. As far as we are concerned, between 6 000 and 7 000 on an annual basis, about 25% of all reports on labour law are dealt with and prosecuted by labour auditors. The second stage is that of non-prosecution. In our Belgian system we have the famous safety net of the administrative fine. It's a corrective one. This way, more than 30% will be continued again. For example, in the case of infringements of social law, we come at a rate of persecution from 60 to 65 and in some years 70% of the total. That's a good result. I shall now return to the anti-discrimination law. I have come to tell you, you are bewildered, that there are few police reports and few or no prosecutions, but that is not a labour law. If you make the reflection, as the President does, or the law needs to be revised and refined, then I would advise that it is the best time to make sure that the criminal sector is strengthened. We also want the criminal sector to be stronger and more coherent. Criminal law is extremely problematic for us. Firstly, the law is governed by purely common law. The law is not labour law. It belongs to the common domain. In any case, she is not one of the classic inspector's biotopes. There is also a need for a set-up, which is not specific to most social-law offences. There is no administrative fine; so it is all or nothing. In your arrondissements, ask the local prosecutor if he has already prosecuted discrimination cases and, if not, why not. That man will explain to her what the problem is for him. Another aspect of the law that can be improved in criminal matters is the burden of proof and the substance of the case, in particular the criminal offences. Even in this Chamber, I think, there is still some confusion: it is only in the case of discrimination under the racism law that discrimination itself is punishable. In the other two laws, discrimination itself is not punishable. That makes it very complex. Inspectors must wear different caps according to the situation and are often combined. We have had cases where there was discrimination against someone of ethnic ethnic ethnic ethnic origin and because she was a woman and disabled. Let's get on with it. At the same time, she was still bullied. There is another mechanism in this area, in particular the Anti-Pesticide Act. The advice I give you is to pay particular attention to the infractions. That is also our question. The elements of inciting and ordering discrimination, especially where inciting discrimination must be accompanied by a certain amount of publicity, make many dossiers extremely difficult or even impossible. Then why do we do some cases, without a criminal approach, but by trying to arrive at a civil approach? Because the phenomenon is there for us. That's important enough. However, it is not the most efficient legislation, but the most frustrating legislation that exists for a specialist social inspector that we have trained for this purpose. There was also a question to say more about the content. I would prefer not to throw it too gibberish now, because the text is not yet completely clear and clear. Over the last few days, a blueprint has been considered. I'm gonna let our minister do the honors. I've given you a few ideas that I think should be in it. However, I feel very humble in this. It must indeed be very focused. The test with mystery calls should, in my opinion, aim at the very specific situations of everything related to job offers, job applications and access to the labour market, but not the rest. During the implementation of an employment relationship, we know this problem much less. If we are discriminated against, we have much more control over this by the means that the law offers us. We have a response there, too. We always encounter the same problem, namely people who apply and who, in addition to a job, use some of their protected properties. So maybe that's something that's best handled. The probative force and the value of those findings are also best regulated. Mr Muyldermans, I fully agree with you. It's not an absolute cure or a miracle cure, it's a starting point, it's a serious benchmark, something that creates a suspicion. That presumption is in itself beneficial for a civil-law approach in a procedure. If one suspects, in that law, then the system is that the burden of proof is shifted to the other party. That's what we need. This is also the intention in many of the investigations of the inspection, namely to submit the facts to the employer, to confront him with them and to ask for the explanation. How do you react? What are your motives? What is your justification? Is that an objective and reasonable justification? Is that a justification for direct or indirect discrimination? Is it professionally justified? He is asked to explain and show this with forms, documents, statistics, e-mails, etc. Evidence is definitely something that needs to be arranged. The authority of the inspector must also be regulated within the framework of his action in the Social Criminal Code. I'm sure it's necessary. The application. When are these practical tests going to be carried out? Are they going to do this on their own initiative, just like that, or are they going to do it properly? Could that be on a report, in case of a special report? By who? That could be due to a complaint, and so on. There must therefore be sufficient grounds for such a test and the number of cases must also be very specific, if not a difficult instrument. Questions were also asked about the competence of the inspection. That is a difficult issue at the moment. Today we are responsible for the three federal inspection laws, including the application and sanctioning of collective agreements, including the collective agreements of the sectors. For bullying, our fellow officers of the Department of Welfare Control are responsible for the work. With regard to service cheques, given the transfer of powers that will also take place effectively on 1 April 2015, our competence should be defined. So we still have to test that with our fellow Members from the other Communities and the Regions, with their inspection services. Therefore, where our competence in this debt instrument is specifically for service cheques because this is the matter that has been transferred, and where their competence begins and continues, today is a bit mixed. In some cases, we also cooperate with the regional inspection, especially with regard to Flanders. That will also have to be clarified and recorded. The question was asked whether a test would be limited to those two sectors. Of course, the two sectors mentioned today are the cause of most of the problems. I shudder to the point a little bit, as a lawyer. The law must also motivate and justify why a strict ban applies only to certain sectors. The Inspection has been obsessed with Europe in recent years because of all the provisions on social dumping. We can be blamed for introducing into the legislation measures which may restrict the free movement of services. Are our measures justified, are they proportionate, and you name it? I therefore believe that if it is limited to these two sectors, the first disadvantage is that it is difficult to impose more conditions on these sectors. There may also be foreign agency agencies and foreign service cheque companies. There are now, more and more. The markets are open. We must therefore be able to explain why we are restricting ourselves to certain companies. A second argument can be: it is not because the problem is mainly there today, the rest must be left untouched. Indeed, in large companies there is usually no problem. However, between the baker or the chef and the multinational, there is a whole range of companies where practices can occur that are not correct. My advice would be to leave the potential open to all employers. Sometimes the Inter-Federal Equal Opportunities Centre dismisses. I've already dropped that word. Do I have doubts about the correctness of the cooperation? Well, that's been thoroughly legalized. You know that the Interfederal Equal Opportunities Centre is a special public institution, with special contracts and a special legal mandate. All this is clearly in the legislation. On the issue of discrimination law, it has also been given a special mandate to defend the rights of the victims of this legislation. We are mainly working with the Inter-Federal Equal Opportunities Centre on the basis of the cooperation protocol, but not exclusively. It has already happened that we dealt with dossiers, which are not listed in the figures given, in cooperation with a department of Diversity of a trade union. This has happened more than once recently. These are bodies, including trade unions, the Interfederal Equal Opportunities Centre, the Institute for Equality of Women and Men, which are listed in the law as organisations with legal powers to enforce this law and to help defend the victims. Under our own legislation, the Social Criminal Code, we have the power to pass our findings on to these organisations. Legally, that's perfectly legal. They can use these. They can also pass on our findings to other public authorities and administrations, which they can then use for their own purposes. I'll see if there were any questions. I hope you'll forgive me for not having the blueprint completely yet. We're still working on that. I think I've said the most extraordinary thing.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic104x.u25	I'll give you a few short elements in my turn. Mrs Demir asked the question about the trial period. An evaluation of the abolition of the pilot period has been announced in the coalition agreement. I believe that the element of opportunity groups, including people of foreign origin, should be taken into account. Mr President, you asked about foreign examples. I must say that, so far, we have not made any attempt to map this. This is perhaps something we should do, looking at best practice in other European countries in combating discrimination in the labour market. I also think that the European Commission will be willing to help in this, which seems to me to be a good suggestion. Mrs Kitir asked about government campaigns on discrimination. I don't think the FPS Work is the best place to address the general public. It is perhaps a question that you will be able to put to the Members of the Equal Opportunities Centre this afternoon. In any case, I think that too little attention has been paid to the economic case against discrimination, which is not sufficiently addressed. In fact, as a society, we simply cannot afford not to use the talent that exists to make our economy run even stronger. Mrs Willaert asked about the volume of work according to origin in the service sector. I think that we could actually check through the monitoring. We didn't do that in our report, but at least I'll take it with me. However, I would intuitively think that people of foreign origin may have a slightly higher average labour volume in that sector, but that is something we should check. In any case, the proportion of foreign nationals in the service cheque sector is particularly high. When we look at the proportion of women aged 18 to 60 per origin in the service sector, we see that of the whole group, only 2.8 % of women of Belgian origin work in service cheque companies, whereas, for example, it rises to 9.7 % for women of other African origin, i.e. Africa below the Maghreb, to 16% of women of EU-12 origin, of the new EU countries. However, this sector employs a large number of people of foreign origin, out of proportion. That is something we need to take into account in the debate. Please note that we are not only targeting the sectors, as Philippe Vanden Broeck has just said in other words where a lot of people of foreign origin are working. Perhaps there is also a problem in sectors where they do not enter. Then there may be several problems, I mentioned them earlier. There is undoubtedly discrimination, but there are also other structural reasons that explain why people of foreign origin get less work done.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic104x.u26	Are there any colleagues who would like to add something in the replies, ask for something, make a suggestion?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic104x.u27	I just had a comment on the methodology. Some have criticised the methodology and the fact that this is not reflected on the website. At least I got the methodology spontaneously from you guys. I think it would be a good idea to put this on the website anyway, precisely to undermine the remark that the right questions were not asked. When I look at last weekend's debate, it was all about saying that people should ask that a little Dutch be spoken. In the questions you have asked, you have said very clearly, I quote: "My parents want a Flemish, not an immigrant, even though she speaks Dutch." That is what this is about, and I think it should be stressed that we are talking about discrimination. This does not depend on the extent to which a person should speak perfectly Dutch or not. There are tools for that. The cards are a very good tool. In time, the debate is only about the knowledge of Dutch. This may be clarified in the communication and on your website. You're saying we have to pull the positive card. I'm glad to hear that. I'm convinced of that myself. Indeed, we must go for smart targets. What is more, I tabled a resolution last year which I also retabled in this legislature. With this resolution, I would like to call for smart targets to be set. Moreover, the government itself must set an example in this respect. We have also included this point in our coalition agreement by a majority. That is why we shall be working on it. We will do that for the government to begin with. The private sector also has a responsibility in this respect, and we call on the social partners to work on these targets. In a number of sectors there may be a very high employment rate of people of ethnic origin. I am thinking, for example, of the service cheque sector. In other sectors, this employment will then be minimal, because too few people have obtained the right diploma. Everything can and therefore also be smart targets, which can vary from sector to sector. However, it is particularly important to raise awareness and to point out that it is not normal that there are sufficient people in the healthcare sector with the necessary skills and capacities, but that there is very little colour in certain hospitals in a very diverse region. That is what this is all about, and the government must set an example in this respect. The government subsidises a number of sectors such as education, media and care. The private sector should follow that example. By the way, I would also like to congratulate the broadcasting sector on the fact that it is often a springboard for people of ethnic origin. Often employers doubt or have prejudices, and the fact that a lot of people get the chance to do temporary work first and prove their abilities, they still get to work. Therefore, I would not like to look at the temporary work at all, quite the contrary. I very much appreciate what the sector is doing, but that is not enough. We must also look at the other sectors, where there is no temporary work, because the figures have once again shown that we are the worst pupil of the class when it comes to the employment of immigrants. Mrs Demir, that has nothing to do with a failing migration policy. Firstly, the discussion about active or passive migration is not correct. (Protests from Mrs Demir) Mind if I finish my reasoning? There are, first of all, groups... the numbers are there and you know them too.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic104x.u28	(...).
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic104x.u29	I know that, of course. I've been following the problem for 20 years. Mrs. Demir, let me finish. I know, of course, that the largest group coming to Belgium are family gentlemen. They do not come under the visa for a work permit. That does not mean, however, that the people who come here for family reunification are also in the same category as my parents. Mrs Demir, the figures say something about visas to come here. We also know that this is precisely what we are talking about: we are no longer even talking about people who are just here and who, for example, have a lack of language skills or lack of skills. I can understand why someone wouldn't get to work. That's right. In this respect, we have no problem and we are on the same page. However, if third- or fourth-generation people, children of migrants, despite having diplomas and speaking perfectly Dutch, flat Antwerps, West-Flemish or whatever, do not get to work, then we have a problem. Hasn't policy made any mistakes at all? Of course, it's made mistakes. However, the fact of family reunification or asylum is a fact. We have largely already restricted it, but we cannot go any further. Mrs Demir, what matters, and for which you or your party is partly responsible, is that it is about a good integration policy. Perhaps it is rather a question of failing integration policy. Once those people are here...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic104x.u30	(...) a good migration policy. (...).
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic104x.u31	That is true, of course, but it is not enough. Let me finish my reasoning.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic104x.u32	Mrs. Lanjri, it's International Women's Day. So be kind to each other. Mrs Lanjri, we do not want to repeat the migration debate here. Your colleague, Mr Demir, mentioned this and you replied. We may disagree, but that is democracy. Come back to the subject, the discrimination, because that interests me now.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic104x.u33	Mr President, I would like to conclude the circle. We must pursue a good migration policy and, of course, we must also control the flow of migration. However, once these people are here, whether they are asylum seekers, family lords or people who come here to seek work, we need to work on a good integration policy. This also means ensuring integration into the labour market. Then we will ensure that this talent is not lost, as the last speaker of the panel has just said.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic104x.u34	Mr President, I would like to return to a question I asked about responses to discrimination. I asked whether language can become a part of discrimination and whether it can or may be discrimination based on language. Mr van Bellingen, you have said that language can be a barrier, but I do not hear you explicitly saying that this discrimination cannot be allowed. In the code of conduct drawn up for the broadcasting sector, it is stated explicitly: "Observing the principles of the introduction, temporary employment agencies reject discrimination based on age, birth, property, belief or belief, political or syndical belief, language, past, etc. I want to come back to my question. Is it discriminatory or not if someone is rejected on the basis of language?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic104x.u35	Before giving the floor to the speakers, I give the floor to Mrs Demir.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic104x.u36	Mr President, I too would like to make a comment on the language. 'Cause I hear some weird noises here, too. We must absolutely avoid saying that we do not need to know Dutch anymore. I refer this to competence and competence rather than to the debate on discrimination. It also depends on the job they perform whether or not the employee should know perfectly Dutch. I want to disconnect language and discrimination, I think it is obvious and logical that people speak a little bit of Dutch. Then I come to the targets, quotas and so on. Mrs Lanjri referred to the coalition agreement. It says that the government is setting an example with the federal administration, but the government agreement does not say that we are setting targets for public companies. On the contrary, in relation to state-owned enterprises, it is quite clear in the government agreement that the government will not intervene. It is quite remarkable that Mrs Lanjri is in favour of not leaving everything to social dialogue in the sector itself, but that the public authorities should assume their responsibilities. I agree, we should not only leave that to the social partners, but also the government has its responsibility, but I propose that we continue to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic104x.u37	I had asked a question to the representative of Federgon, who was not answered. Why wasn't the report on mystery shopping made public? Or was that question answered? Sorry, I missed that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic104x.u38	That report's here.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic104x.u39	I would also like to say a few words about the discussion between Mrs Lanjri and Mrs Demir. There is a good integration policy, but it can also be concluded that there is a need for a good anti-discrimination policy, with an important end to it. The fact checker of the VRT said in "The seventh day" that also highly educated people who speak Dutch very well find their way difficult. Then we can only agree on the fact that it is really about discrimination, regardless of migration and integration.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic104x.u40	It is rather important that I belong to the panel that, firstly, there is a blueprint in the making with regard to a better toolbox. Secondly, the sector itself says that there is a better set of instruments, subject to strict conditions. These are important steps forward. Mr Muyldermans, you say that you do your mystery calls and that the government should do hers if they come. I'd find it a little strange if we were to develop systems next to each other. One has to think about how to link the two. The sector is self-regulation and it shows that a certain large or larger segment does not pose any problems. Okay, then we don't have to check anymore. For the persistent problems that exist, I do believe that you should, of course, be able to pass on the names to the authorities and inspection services, subject to agreements and confidentiality, in order to be able to carry out checks. Otherwise we are going to have two systems next to each other, which are expensive for both and which are probably not going to be very efficient either. That is the question: how can we link it together?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic104x.u41	Mr President, I would like to think about it further. In my introduction, I made it very clear that we are prepared to look at all kinds of issues further in order to achieve better results than we already have. Then we automatically have a cooperation between self-regulation and the regulation to be carried out by the public authorities. This is an appeal to the federal and regional level, which is sometimes also a difficulty to consider further. Now that I have the floor, as the sector responsible for the service cheque sector and the broadcasting sector, I really would not like these instruments to be used only for our sectors and not for all employers. I want to be very clear about that. We, as intermediaries, are in a difficult position. The problem also lies primarily with customers in the broadcasting sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic104x.u42	Mr President, I might be able to pick up on that. We already have a practical example, if we are inventive and want to know when and in which cases a practical test could take place. The collective agreement of the broadcasting sector contains very interesting provisions. It states that, when a temporary employment consultant is confronted with a demand from a client who is discriminatory, it must report it internally to the point of contact within the organisation that is competent and trained for that purpose. The contact person will then contact the customer to persuade him to change his insights and convince him to accept the person and so on. It also states, in fine words, that if this fails and the customer remains firm in his decision, the contact person can transfer the matter to the contact point of the Equal Opportunities Centre or to the inspection. When we get such a report, we can take it. We see how the situation works, we know all the history. There's a hunch, and not the least. We can then confirm this on the basis of a practical test. We'll check the facts. Is it true? So there is the first start by the sector itself. We will accept this after a report from the sector. We will do a practical test and confirm the situation. This could be an opportunity for cooperation; this will give us a flow of sensitive information, which is also relevant in order to carry out such a practical test, which will be necessary and useful. The same could apply to other sectors, trade unions or the centre itself. They can work in the same way. You have a small example there. That would be perfectly feasible for us.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic104x.u43	Mrs Kitir asked a question about language. Is discrimination based on language illegal or not? Can anyone ask about a cleaning woman or poet who speaks Dutch? Is that allowed to be asked, or is that discriminatory?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic104x.u44	Mr President, it is about the services sector, where customers are private individuals, and they are not bound by any language law. When it comes to the public sector, for example an OCMW, I would be inclined to respond differently, because the government is bound by language legislation. It is then about relations in employment relations. The relationship between a service cheque user as an individual, as a private individual, and the service cheque company is not an employment relationship. That position, and a private one anyway, is strictly outside that famous language decree in Flanders. So I would have my doubts about explicitly calling language discriminatory, unless the language is clearly linked. In the latter case, it is a matter of fact. From a criminal point of view, such cases are often very difficult to justify, since language must already be linked to nationality and origin. If that can't be proven, it's still difficult. Language is always difficult.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic104x.u45	Mr President, I would like to mention a few more things. The reason why the investigation is not immediately online was first of all strategic, and second of all technical. Strategically, we did not immediately put the investigation online, because we knew who would apply for it. Now we know clearly how ordinary citizens, as well as institutions, have requested the investigation. This means that we now also have direct contacts within the administrations, universities, companies, OCMWFs and also among private individuals. A technical problem occurred, for which reason we did not manage to put the research directly online. We apologize for that. It was not intended to keep the investigation under control, on the contrary, it was intended to be published. I would like to mention a few specific facts and figures. The Chairman asked about the number of notifications or complaints. We have looked at this, but I suggest that you also put that question to the fellow Members of the Inter-Federal Equal Opportunities Centre this afternoon. 643 cases of racism and xenophobia have been submitted to the public prosecutors, 421 of which have been dismissed. The cases dealt with are characterised by a high degree of conviction. Of the 45 cases brought before the court, 30 were convicted of racism.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic104x.u46	Are you talking about racism and xenophobia, or also about discrimination?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic104x.u47	Those things deal with racism. We do not know specifically about cleaning aid, but in general, if there are complaints, they will be dismissed. (...) That dismissal has to do with a lack of evidence. The burden of proof is the main problem in this matter. So therefore the practice test and the story is in fact complete. When it comes to the sector and its colours, we have derived from the monitor that 20% has a different EU nationality, 8% has a nationality from outside Europe and 72% is of Flemish origin, they are born here and so on. This is also a problem because these sectoral set-ups were created to employ those people, vulnerable women of foreign nationality. There it is noted that two non-European countries are among the top ten of foreign nationality. Well, that's a problem, isn't it? Selection is also a problem. Those selection criteria need to be addressed. That is why I am very pleased to extend it to all sectors. We are asking for a coordinated approach on the different Regions, Communities and Federal. That is why we asked for an inter-federal action plan to be put in place in 2001 in order to be able to deal with all these different action plans. This is also the job of this Chamber, or at least of the Minister, to work towards a coordinated approach in the area of racism and discrimination in our country. Because only this can make it effective and efficient.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic104x.u48	Mr President, this is not an additional question but a clarification. The purpose of the hearing is to ask questions and to clarify. I am not suggesting that if I ask a question an opinion on me is formed at the same time. When I ask the question about language formation, that's just something I read and hear. That's something that's happening. I do not think that the conclusion should be drawn that I do not think language is important and that no attention should be paid to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic104x.u49	I thank everyone for their presence and their presence.
