ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic136x.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, at the start of this item on the agenda, we have decided to have an integral report drawn up which does not require the appointment of a rapporteur. Today we have the Minister of Work and the Secretary of State responsible for equal opportunities among other things. I will say in an introduction that I regret that statements are made prior to a committee. I think it is wiser to make these statements here in committee in order to be able to conduct the debate here too, as Mrs Demir said. It is true that if there were an agreement on something, one would be free to communicate about it. I now give the floor to Mr Peeters, Minister for Labour.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic136x.u2	Mr President, I would like to address this committee's question to discuss with the Secretary of State. I refer to the report of 4 March, which you expressly stated that you wanted to hold an exchange of views with the Minister of Work in this committee. You even said that perhaps a tip from the veil could be lifted with regard to the blueprint that is being prepared according to the Inspection Service. This would allow us, after that meeting, to try to formulate a first step towards a resolution with the various political groups. I understand that Mrs Demir asked at that meeting whether it was not appropriate, for example, to include Secretary of State Sleurs and Tommelein. I have no problem with that, but you said, Mr President, that you submitted that question to the man of the Inspection, who is supposed to know who is competent and who replied that I am responsible for the Social Inspectorate, which is also correct. I am therefore very pleased that we can exchange views and that my colleague, Secretary of State, Mr Sleurs, is also here. A minister always has the opportunity to say his thoughts, and now I have that opportunity in this committee. Perhaps we could have done that last week, but Mrs Kitir was right in that regard when it was proposed to do so at three o'clock, and that was too late. Let me be clear: you have asked my opinion, you will have it. That is, of course, not a government position, because neither Mr Sleurs nor myself will express a government position here. You'll get my idea of what's been discussed here. Having said that, I hope that we can continue this very important dossier in good cooperation. Now a number of points. Firstly, the labour market position of immigrants. During the hearing there were several interesting interventions concerning the extent of the disadvantage of immigrants. As far as I am concerned, I am remembering a number of things that came out of this hearing and which I believe are relevant. Firstly, socio-economic monitoring shows that behind the figures on disadvantage there is a great diversity, both between groups of immigrants, depending on nationality, origin, place of residence, sex and so on, and between sectors. We must not underestimate sectoral dynamics, which must make us think very carefully about the phenomenon. For me, it's not a black and white story. We know that temporary work is a sector in which young people of foreign origin make more use of the springboard or safety net effect than young people of Belgian origin. We see that up to nine times more people from non-EU origin work in the catering or broadcasting sector than in petrochemicals. That is an important observation. Once again, we must look at this problem in a nuanced manner. As regards the nationality of the service cheque workers, IDEA's study shows that the share of non-Belgian workers remained the same in 2013, compared to 2012, being 28,1 % in 2013 compared to 28,4 % in 2012, but that is a significant share. A clear question then is which sector treats a disadvantaged group most unequally. Is that the sector where they are working, but which does not always have the same opportunities, or the sector where the group does not get in or barely gets in? So it's not a black and white story or one size fits all. There is, I repeat, a very nuanced view of the matter. If we look at the policy recommendations from three different areas, the 2013 socio-economic monitoring report, the Commission's reports or the OECD's recent report, then we can see that they are very similar or even overlapping. They place great emphasis on tackling discrimination, but also on equal opportunities in education, integration and diversity policies and on the need for certain reforms in our labour market. The dynamics and opportunities for mobility in the labour market are also important in this context. I'll come back to that later. Ladies and gentlemen, that is the first point that I have retained from the hearings, other information and various elements, as Minister, who gives his opinion here. A second point concerns the measures contained in the coalition agreement. We must solve structural problems with structural measures. We must not make the mistake of taking ad hoc target group measures, for which the federal level is no longer competent, while in Brussels two thirds of the population are of foreign origin. That is no longer a target group, that is the Brussels labour market. The target group approach also conflicts with its limits. On a structural level, I am convinced that the measures we have already taken and the measures that will shortly be discussed in this House to implement the government agreement will have a positive impact on that target group. I am thinking in particular of all measures to control wage costs, wage moderation and the index jump, which we have been talking about for several hours. The planned reduction in the employer's contribution, the additional burden reduction and the implementation of the Competitiveness Pact will also play a role. In the structural area of labour costs, we have already taken many measures, albeit not group-specific ones, but measures which we believe will have a general positive effect on employment, including, of course, those of people of foreign origin. As indicated above, this is a complex problem. The solutions must therefore be found at different levels. The sixth state reform has transferred the whole of the target group policy. I am thinking here of education, access to the labour market, integration, etc. These are all elements that should contribute to a solution. Since these powers belong to the other levels, a debate with the Communities and the Regions is appropriate here. In short, we need a global approach. An inter-ministerial conference can be used as an instrument for this. This has been done in the past for very concrete integration dossiers. Punctually, we have started discussions with Mr Muyters to look at the concrete solutions that have been put forward in the Flemish Parliament and beyond. The third point concerns federal regulation. The federal regulations embrace exclusive enforcement powers, the supervision of social laws. The question of who is responsible for the Inspection and the inspectors was raised on 3 March. As indicated at the hearing, there is a cooperation agreement with the Inter-Federal Equal Opportunities Centre with a view to sharing knowledge and assistance for complaint handling. A similar cooperation agreement was concluded with the Institute for Equality between Women and Men. I believe that my colleague will go into this in more detail later. On the federal level, the General Directorate for the Supervision of Social Laws (TSW) is the sole body responsible for enforcing federal anti-discrimination laws. It also supervises the collective agreements of the NAR and the sectoral collective agreements which we have just discussed. For example, the collective agreement of the broadcasting sector is a very good collective agreement. We note that there have been far fewer reports since this collective agreement. It should be borne in mind that some aspects of enforcement fall within the competence of the Communities or the Regions. I am thinking of the employment services, the recognition of temporary employment agencies, outplacement, vocational guidance, vocational training and career guidance, to name but a few. As regards service cheques, the organisation of the system will be effectively transferred to the Communities and the Regions on 1 April. Nevertheless, supervision of social laws remains a not insignificant federal leftover power, except for all that has to do with employment relations. This includes, according to Article 4 of the anti-discrimination law, the conditions for access to employment. For the users, TSW also remains competent. Some have made statements about this, but they need to know that supervision is still a federal competence. Both cooperation agreements pursue the same objective, in particular the proper presentation and filtering of complaints by these centres of expertise, with the consent of the victims concerned and legal support during the investigations. The final objective of an inspection inquiry is a detailed fact-finding report for the Centre or the Institute, so that mediation can be undertaken by the Centre or the Institute and, if necessary, a civil procedure may be initiated to defend the victim. The advantage of this approach is the shift in the burden of proof as soon as a civil case results in reasonable suspicions, while in criminal matters there is presumption of innocence and the full burden of proof rests on the shoulders of social inspectors. Since at least the design has to be proved, the burden of proof is often a very difficult problem. The inspection does not, of course, have much resources to bring about a general change in the attitudes of the general public. However, it has been able to contribute partly to a change in attitudes among employers. What does that way of working teach us? How can we make some interesting observations about this? This can, as requested, contribute to the further steps announced, such as a resolution. I repeat that this can be done after an exchange of views which you have asked us to do. Firstly, the threshold for the lodging of complaints by non-Belgian jobseekers, in particular those with a different skin colour, remains very high. Secondly, in most cases a repressive approach is not the most efficient method and implies a heavy burden of proof. A report is reserved for extreme cases of open, direct discrimination, as far as it can, of course, be proven. Thirdly, the shift of the burden of proof into administrative or civil proceedings is workable in so far as it occurs within an existing employment relationship. Finally, however, the main problem remains the evidence of discrimination in the job application or access to a job. In the case of service cheques, the problem is that the customer is a private person who is not a regular employer. An investigation of the user necessitates entry into his private world of life. That is why certain individuals on 3 March 2015 asked whether Bart Tommelein, competent for the Privacy, should also be called up. The aspect of entering the private world is of course a starting point. Entering the private world is almost impossible and not even desirable. In the case of temporary agency companies, this problem is less prominent: the customer is almost always a company and this sector has now come a long way. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, is there therefore a need for an additional enforcement instrument? That is the question that we will continue to ask in the government and to which we will also respond. You asked for an exchange of views, so you will have my thoughts. There is already a requirement for recognition that service cheque undertakings should not discriminate. Article 2quater, § 4, 2e, of the Royal Decree of 12 December 2001 on service cheques explicitly states that the undertaking may not discriminate directly or indirectly against employees or customers as provided for in the Law of 10 May 2007 on combating certain forms of discrimination. The Joint Committee 322.01 does not have a code of conduct for the prevention of discrimination, as the Joint Committee on Temporary Work has one with enforceable sanctioning provisions. It would be good if the social partners were to adopt existing good practices in other sectors facing the same problem. Self-regulation is and remains a good and essential part of any anti-discrimination policy if it is supported by all the social partners in the sector. According to the latest information, six joint committees have now included codes of conduct. Non-discrimination provisions and the promotion of diversity in general are included in 12 joint committees. Discrimination provisions and the promotion of gender diversity The mystery calls provoke a lot of reactions. It is probably a coincidence that from April 1st the economic inspection mystery calls will be carried out. Mystery calls were approved under the previous government by Johan Vande Lanotte and Annemie Turtelboom. Something similar is also possible in other sectors: for example, the law of 2 August 2002 on the supply of financial products makes it possible to control the sale of Lotto products to minors. I have already referred to the Code of Economic Law, wherever it is. So there is some experience in this domain. However, I would like to stress very strongly that prevention, and certainly those codes of conduct, absolutely must be further developed. There are more joint committees that I have listed and that steps need to be taken there. We have asked for the social inspection, if we were to proceed to mystery calls, how this could be framed and what conditions they should meet. If sensitization and codes of conduct have not worked, which is the subject of further consultation, then a framework for mystery calls is absolutely necessary. I'll go over the terms to make it clear that the mystery calls have to meet strict conditions when they're deployed. First, the mystery calls are organized by the social inspector himself, not by third parties, for privacy reasons. Inspectors are strictly bound by professional secrecy and their findings can also be used immediately in the investigation. After all, the principle of civil law is not changed. The allegation that the inspector is a judge and a party in this case is not based on anything. The finding of the inspector is merely a fact which has been proven and which can be used by the victim and by the Centre. Where appropriate, a court will rule on that element of evidence and on the circumstances in which it was obtained. That documentary evidence, thus to be considered, constitutes an initiation of further investigation. Secondly, the mystery calls must meet the requirements of finality and proportionality. The social inspector must now be able to justify his action in respect of other far-reaching investigative powers, in accordance with Articles 18 and 19 of the Social Criminal Code. The social inspector is bound by a strict behavior rule, according to Article 61 of the Social Criminal Code. In concrete terms, the mystery call can be used as evidence-promoting instrument in the event of a concrete, well-founded complaint or notification against a service cheque company, a temporary agency or an employing employer and only as other detection methods fail to do so, I stress, in the final analysis. In other words, a mystery call giving rise to discrimination must be followed by further steps in the investigation, such as confrontation, interrogation, access to documents, etc. The next condition is that the mystery calls happen without entrapment. The mystery call must not give rise to an actual commitment by the other party, so it must remain purely informative. The mystery calls don't mean proactive detectives. It is neither possible nor desirable for TSW to screen a sector on a large scale using that instrument because of cost efficiency. In addition to the code of conduct and on the basis of concrete signals from industry self-regulation mechanisms, this instrument can be used. Since Article 20 of the Social Criminal Code requires the inspector to always identify himself for his investigation, an exception should be provided for the introduction of the call. Of course, the Minister of Justice will have to be closely involved in the development of such far-reaching powers. The advice of the National Labour Council and the Advisory Council on Social Criminal Law must also be sought before we take that step. Indeed, some have explicitly asked for the social partners to be involved. That is a good thing. Mr President, you have said that you are curious about the blueprint announced by the inspection services, which the Minister would explain. It is necessary to examine whether the inspection services concerned would like such a competence, given that such exercise of competence may in practice increase the risk of aggressive reactions. As I have already said, good anti-discrimination policies also benefit from prevention and sensitisation. For example, it is important to train staff properly before they get to work. For example, consumers of service cheques should learn to deal with discriminatory customer questions and inform their customers accordingly. If there is discrimination, action must be taken, with the primary aim of remedying what is going wrong. The problem must be addressed and avoided in the future. Action must be taken where necessary and even punished if it is serious. With what was discussed here in the hearing, we will continue to look at a very clear step-by-step approach and implementation. We will take into account what is said in committee and the reactions to Mr Sleurs' and myself's input to solve the problem in the labour market from my responsibilities. I hope that everyone will take full responsibility for this.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic136x.u3	Mr. Secretary, can you share your text, because you've given me a whole sandwich? Madam Secretary of State, if you are also prepared to share your text, this would facilitate the discussion in the near future.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic136x.u4	The texts will be distributed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic136x.u5	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this government will not tolerate discrimination in the labour market. That is why, together with my colleagues in the government, I will strive for a strong and coordinated policy on equal opportunities, both at the horizontal level for all policy areas and at the vertical level. The Government wants to actively promote equal opportunities and combat all forms of discrimination, also in the labour market. I note with you today that some groups are not represented in a representative way on the labour market. I am not referring here only to allochtonians, but, for example, also to disabled people and people who are incapacitated for long-term work. The main discrimination in the labour market is currently age discrimination, and we will not tolerate it either. The obstacles to equal opportunities must be removed, but I would nevertheless like to stress that, for every citizen, the right to equal opportunities is an act of reciprocity. By this I mean that public power must create opportunities, but above all that these opportunities must be seized. We, as a government, must take responsibility and lead a policy around discrimination. At the same time, I stress that equality of opportunity begins with respect for everyone. In other words, there are three protagonists. As a government, government and Parliament, we have a policy to eradicate discrimination and promote diversity. I would like to call on employers not to lose talents and to reflect the composition of our diversified society when filling out new vacancies. After all, they are the ones who will have to create the jobs. The individual himself, like everyone else in our society, is obliged to make a valuable contribution by participating effectively. Everyone is obliged to seize their chances. Discrimination on the labour market is a broad issue which I experience in my capacity as Secretary of State for Persons with Disabilities. Today we are dealing with a very specific problem, in particular the participation of people with a migrant background in the labour market. We cannot ignore the fact that the participation of immigrants in our labour market is striking. The level of activity of the EU population with non-EU nationality is the lowest of all EU countries in Belgium. In Belgium, only 40.3% of active-age immigrants are at work compared with 55.7% on average in the EU. This is a difference of no less than 15%. In Belgium alone, the rate of activity does not increase according to the number of years of residence. We can give some explanations for this low participation rate. Many inhabitants of ethnic origin are lagging behind in terms of language, and often also lagging behind in education and training. These are important thresholds for a successful entry into the labour market. A great deal of effort has already been made on education, vocational training and language learning, but we must continue to do so without delay. We must be equally aware that the ethnic minority does not exist, just as neither does the male nor the female. So let go of the one-sided focus on diploma and training, and look at competences and talents. In our view, this new approach is at the heart of the solution to the various bottlenecks in the labour market, such as bottleneck jobs, 50-plus, immigrants and unqualified outflow. The low participation rate also has to do with years of failing migration policies. There was too little focus on active migration, and too much on social migration and family reunification. Nevertheless, we cannot deny the light of the sun. For certain groups, especially immigrants, discrimination remains a real problem facing them daily in life. It is unacceptable that this is an obstacle to active participation in society. It is a lose-lose situation, both for the individual and for society. I will be very clear on this point. As mentioned in the Government Agreement, we will not tolerate discrimination in the labour market. Employers also play an important role in promoting equal opportunities. Their responsibility ranges from selection to recruitment to human resources policy throughout the career. The principles of combating discrimination in the labour market are enshrined in the following federal regulations. - The Act of 30 July 1981 to punish certain acts inspired by racism and xenophobia. The Act also applies to labour relations and prohibits discrimination on the grounds of nationality, so-called race, skin colour, ancestry or national or ethnic origin. - The Act of 10 May 2007 to combat certain forms of discrimination. It also applies to labour relations and prohibits discrimination on the grounds of age, sexual orientation, marital status, birth, property, religious or philosophical belief, political opinions, language, current or future health status, disability, physical or genetic characteristics or social origin. - The Act of 10 May 2007 to combat discrimination between women and men. With regard to the 2007 law, I also deplore the failure of the previous government to take the implementing orders. I will take responsibility for this. My firm is currently working on these orders in collaboration with the Centre and the Institute. Priority is given to the Royal Decree "Positive Action" aimed at promoting a policy of diversity in enterprises. There must be no doubt that discrimination has no place in the workplace. My colleague in charge of Employment and I believe that the fight against it must go through the preventive and repressive way. Today we see that certain sectors – for example, Federgon – require specific quality standards to promote equal opportunities. These examples of good practice deserve attention and should be extended to other industries. Personally, I would like to draw attention to three specific points. A first point is the evaluation of the co-operation agreement between the Centre for Equal Opportunities and Combating Racism and the Department of Monitoring Social Laws of the FOD WASO. This cooperation agreement dates back to 2010. We urgently need to examine the extent to which cooperation is working properly and, where necessary, to what extent it needs to be adjusted. In 2008, the NAR adopted an annex, the code of conduct under collective agreement 38. Minister Peeters has already mentioned this briefly. It contains directives on the prevention of discrimination in the labour market. Unfortunately, only a few sectors, with the great example of the broadcasting sector, have followed up on this. There are over 100 sectors in this country. As Secretary of State responsible for equal opportunities, I would like all sectors to take action. I would like to put this issue on the agenda of the social partners together with the Minister for Employment. As closure work, the Social Inspectorate can be mobilised constructively. I do not mean that they should be used in a witch hunt, but that they should systematically pay attention to discrimination, including discrimination based on a migration background. In other words, the focus on discrimination must become an obvious aspect of a regular inspection. Ladies and gentlemen, these are briefly the main points of interest that I would like to discuss with the government and with you, together with the Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic136x.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, you will now have the floor to ask questions to the two excellences. Let me take up the names: Mrs Demir, Mr Lachaert, Mrs Lanjri, Mrs Willaert, Mrs Kitir, Mr Daerden and Mrs Fonck. Mrs Demir, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic136x.u7	Mr Peeters, Mrs Sleurs, thank you for the explanation. I have a number of questions, because we have already had a few hearings. I shall therefore put a number of questions at once. Before I start, I just want to say something. There is indeed discrimination in the labour market, but I have the impression that there is also currently a discrimination microbe in our country. Let us take a look at the figures. The Minister referred to the figures of the socio-economic monitoring of 2013, in which, for the first time in our country, we finally looked at which Belgian with what origin has what position in social security. This shows that there is a low level of participation, as we already knew. However, if you read the research correctly, you will also read that this is not only due to discrimination and that there is a very low participation rate of immigrant women, even the immigrant women who are not even on the labour market. They are not even registered as job seekers. That is the first problem to be faced by immigrant women. The FOD WASO speaks of 18 %. In order to increase the participation rate among immigrants, it will be necessary to examine in particular how to bring women into the labour market, all the more knowing that they are not even offering themselves. The research also states that it has to do with the traditional cultural role pattern that still prevails. That's a very difficult issue. It's not about discrimination. The fact that so few immigrant women are on the labour market or registering with the VDAB has nothing to do with discrimination. That's just because they're not even registered and they're not even looking for work. This is already a very important issue that cannot be addressed by all kinds of anti-discrimination measures. Furthermore, the Minister says that the broadcasting sector is doing well with regard to the employment of immigrants. That's right. The petrochemical industry hardly employs immigrants, which is also likely to be true, and the port sector is not at all. Only 1% I keep repeating it, because it is so scandalous for port workers in a multicultural city as Antwerp is of ethnic origin. Moreover, the unions decide who can be a port worker. The recognition of the port worker's status is decided by the trade unions. There they have only 1% of people of ethnic origin. This is a point on which the trade unions, who are still full of diversity, may be able to play a part. I have some very specific questions. First of all, as far as entrapment is concerned. The Minister referred to it, to the mystery calls and the problem of entrapment. You know this is forbidden. Provocation is forbidden by our law. So I want to know how the Minister reconciles that. I believe that this is important because the Code states: "There is provocation where the intention to commit a crime has been directly created or strengthened or confirmed by the intervention of a police officer or by a third party acting at the express request of that official. Mr Minister, perhaps you could explain this a little more. How do you reconcile the mystery call with the important principle in our code that provocation or entrapment is forbidden? Secondly, another important principle is that our social inspectors must always identify themselves. I think that is very important in a rule of law. Even when social inspectors go to companies in the context of undeclared work, I find it obvious that they are legitimized when they accuse someone. So if you want to enter the mystery call, you will have to change the Social Criminal Code and make the social inspectors anonymous. How do you view this from the principle of the rule of law? Third, did you go to look abroad? How does it do that abroad, how does it happen in other countries where there are more immigrants at work? Maybe it's interesting to take a look abroad. Fourthly, a question for Mrs Sleurs. You said that the 2010 cooperation agreement between the Centre and the Social Inspectorate dates back. The cooperation agreement also stated that this would be reviewed annually. uod nun. I do not know who the previous Secretary of State was responsible for equal opportunities, but apparently he has failed to do so. If that agreement has been in place for five years when it has never been evaluated, then I find it problematic. The cooperation agreement states that the Inspection and the Centre must combat discrimination, but I read that apparently the software does not work between the Inspection and the Centre. How can one work together, how can one send files if even the software does not work between two services that have concluded a cooperation agreement to tackle discrimination? I think that's an important question. Why is that? Secondly, there is the evaluation of that cooperation agreement. I don't think we should invent the hot water. We need to look at what this cooperation agreement looks like and why it does not work. Apparently, the Centre investigates the complaints, as the social inspectors produced two minutes in 2014. Can we not actually put forward an easy solution? Mr Peeters, why can't social inspectors simply exercise their control powers? I understand that the Centre may have an intermediary role, but if mediation does not help, social inspectors should be able to go to companies openly and openly on the basis of the complaint to the Centre, not anonymously, on the basis of their powers. They may check, request information and ask how it is that a particular person who has lodged a complaint has not been accepted for a particular vacancy. Why does all this have to be anonymous? Why can't a social inspector who has that competence just, as in the case of other violations of social law, draw up a report and then file a file before the labour court?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic136x.u8	Minister, Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your interventions. I have some supplementary questions and reflections on this important topic. First of all, in our discussions, we talked a lot about discrimination against foreigners. I would like to stress, as Mrs Sleurs said earlier, the need to broaden the debate to include all forms of discrimination. This is important because if we really want to do a fully constructive job, we must address all forms of discrimination. Having said that, we have already seen that we have an important body of legislation to combat discrimination. In spite of this, how can it be explained that there are still many obstacles that do not eliminate all these discriminations? Based on these findings, what actions will you take? What contacts have you already made with your colleagues and with your colleagues from federated entities on the subject? Reflection must be carried out at different levels of power. The subject has not yet been discussed with the social partners, as I understand it. I assume that you would like to put this on the agenda quickly in order to find some very concrete leads. Do you already have any proposals to make and discuss with them? Another element is the important role that governments have to play. Indeed, I believe that public authorities should set an example. For example, is an evaluation of the 2011-2014 cross-cutting action plan in the federal government planned? Is there an overview of the current situation? Could you give me a list of the concrete actions you intend to take, particularly with your colleague Mr Vandeput, in order to establish a genuine policy of diversity in the public service? As far as the problem of discrimination is concerned, I was just saying that there is a fairly large arsenal. However, it can be seen that the legislation is not always properly enforced. Even if laws punish discrimination, there must be evidence that there is an intention, an incentive to discrimination must be found. It seems that persons who consider themselves victims of discrimination do not always report the facts, in particular because of a lack of knowledge of the legislation, as is the case for many legislations. There is a lack of knowledge of the ways in which such discrimination can be reported and monitored. Therefore, do you intend to take steps to increase the awareness of workers and job applicants of the means available to them to report such discrimination? Similarly, during the hearings, we learned that there was a significant difference between the number of statements made to the social inspectorate and the number of files made. Do you have any figures in this regard so that we can shed light on the reasons for this difference? With regard to the anti-discrimination laws of 10 May 2007, their assessment was planned and is still pending. Could you then tell us when it can take place and how Parliament can be associated with it? On the subject of positive actions, a concept which enables an end to manifest inequality and whose disappearance has been designated as an objective to promote, if provided for in the legislation, the conditions under which such actions can be implemented must be laid down in a royal decree deliberated in the Council of Ministers and after consultation with the bodies of opinion which the law determines. What's the status of this case? Have any contacts been made with the relevant advisory bodies? With regard to positive actions, socio-economic monitoring and the diversity barometer can provide important information, which would help to target, in particular at the level of certain sectors of work, and to better understand the origin of workers by sector, so as to be able to develop appropriate and targeted policies. Do you not think that there is a potential for using this monitoring and the barometer that should be developed? The importance of the impact of controls and sanctions in the fight against discrimination is also mentioned on several occasions. What is your position on this matter? Are you considering other types of sanctions or, on the contrary, do you think that it is preferable to introduce incentives, positive incentives for sectors that make efforts in terms of diversity? We know that there are inspections to ensure compliance with anti-discrimination laws. Are you considering increasing the number? As far as the mystery calls are concerned, I felt that there were some differences of opinion between them. I would like to know, Mrs. Sleurs, your position on this matter. I note that many groups are in favour of this system, particularly in the majority, the Deputy Prime Minister's group and even the Prime Minister's group. If I could hear Mr Ducrame well, he would be prepared to support a parliamentary legislative initiative. I would like to know whether, indeed, Mr Peeters is eagerly awaiting an initiative which his group would support, as well as the MR Group, and that, therefore, we would have an alternative majority entirely done. What is your position with regard to this support, Mr Peeters? Would it be expressed in a clear and unequivocal manner? As for you, Mrs. Sleurs, what is your position? These are some elements of reflection and questioning!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic136x.u9	Mr President, I would like to begin with a definition. Mrs Demir has rightly cited a number of reasons why people are sometimes in unemployment. I don't think anyone's gonna dispute it. There are a lot of Belgians in unemployment. There are indeed people who are not active in the labour market. They are unemployed because they are low-skilled, have received the wrong training or lack the necessary skills or are not even present on the labour market and choose to stay at home and not receive benefits. There can be no discussion on these matters, Mrs Demir. There are reasons for this difference in efficacy. That's not what this is about today. We need to talk here today about people who want to work, for example women who want to polish, people who do have the necessary skills, but who are rejected for their origin, their name or colour. That is what we need to talk about and not about the other reasons why we should be able to reject these people. These are objective differences which can also be observed in the gender pay gap. There are things that cannot be explained objectively and otherwise. For example, we can talk about two higher educated people of the same age and the same degree. The International Labour Organisation has already investigated this. If they apply for the same job with the same diploma and skills, they find that a person of ethnic origin, even if he is Belgian, is more likely to suffer discrimination. Let's just talk about that. We must also discuss and address the other problems in order to increase the level of activity, but today we are dealing specifically with the problem of discrimination. So let us delineate this debate to discrimination and look at the coalition agreement, where it is discussed on several pages. Not only in the coalition agreement, but also in the policy statements made by Mrs Sleurs and Mr Peeters, we find many passages that say that discrimination cannot be done. We all agree on this aspect across party boundaries. All the speakers we have heard agree with that. I also heard a lot of voices during the hearings which were very clear in favour of practical tests. One of the first questions I would like to ask is therefore the following. Mr Minister, you have pointed out that you may find mystery calling a suitable instrument. There is also the possibility of practical tests. Frankly, in our party program, the proposal was to refine the practical tests. Maybe practice tests are far more far-reaching. In practical tests, people work with two reference persons and a bailiff to establish that they are people with the same abilities, age or diploma. They are both applied for and then the bailiff has to determine whether there is discrimination. Is this still possible or are you saying that working with practical tests is too difficult and that you therefore opt for something more feasible, especially mystery calling? Minister, as regards mystery calling, you said last week that you would first seek advice from the NAR, the Advisory Council on Social Criminal Law, and that you would also like to know the position of the inspection services. Have you received any of these opinions? Or do we have to wait for that? When will you get it? Do you only see these instruments as reactive, and do you only want to act where a problem has been identified? Or do you also see them proactively and would like, for example, in a sector where there are many problems, possibly after self-regulation, to have the inspection services run a number of tests because we know that there are many problems in a particular sector. From the hearings it has also emerged that quite few PVs were actually drawn up by the Inspection Services, something that surprised us all. We have clearly heard from the inspection services that they do not think that is a problem in itself. What do you think of that? Shouldn't we go to more? It is surprising that there are so few PVs. For me, however, there are few PVs, as long as the problem is dealt with properly. The question is whether we have that certainty: there may be fewer PVs, but are the problems being addressed? Will we be able to achieve better cooperation in certain areas in the future, so that there will be more PV debt securities or do you think that the Inspection should not focus on additional PV debt securities? During the hearings, several speakers asked for an action plan to be drawn up in the area of controls. Mr Secretary, how do you see these controls? What do you think of the task of the Inspection? Will you draw up a concrete action plan for this purpose? The hearings also called for some form of reporting. There is self-regulation from the sector, and I welcome that, but at certain times the sector does not say that it can and does not want to act anymore, but that it wants to pass it on to the government, whose responsibility it will be. How do you see that functioning, whether or not with reporting? How do you see the division of powers between what we can and should do federally and what the Communities can and should do? Deduced from this, what are we supposed to do to ensure that municipal authorities, like in Ghent, would like to take those initiatives in that area, too? At present no initiatives can be taken, because a framework needs to be created in this area first. However, this framework is partly Flemish and partly federal. How is the division of competences precisely in the areas of employment and housing? Do we have anything to say about this or is it entirely Flemish? Minister, I have one final question for you, but it is not so much a question of discrimination. We have included in the coalition agreement a passage for which I have worked together with Mrs Sleurs to use the instrument of socio-economic monitoring existing at the FOD WASO. We will also have to set a target for our administration in order to bring diversity into the administration. The private sector is right. He felt that the government should not always point the finger, but should first set a good example. I agree with the sector. In fact, I proposed a target of 18 years ago in the city council of Antwerp. I am therefore pleased to note that we are now at almost 17% in terms of staff diversity. That increase has been very gradual. She didn't get there very quickly. It's been 18 years. However, we have now reached the limit of 17%. What about socio-economic monitoring? What timing has been agreed for that? Has anything been done to set the target? From when could we enter it? The government agreement also states that the private sector would be encouraged to take initiatives in this area, which is a task for social dialogue. Has that happened yet? I have a few more questions for Mrs Sleurs. Mrs Sleurs, you said in your policy statement that we cannot tolerate discrimination. I would like to hear you say today that we must eradicate discrimination with root and branch. You don't think we should let talent go to waste. You take the words out of my mouth. Those are the words I said at the hearing. We simply cannot afford to throw people and talent overboard. We will need all the talent to continue to finance our social security. We really need the people! That is why we must continue to focus on tackling discrimination, but also on supporting people without the right skills, people who are not sufficiently activated or people who speak poor Dutch. These are all things that we must work on at the same time. Mrs Sleurs, how do you see the approach to discrimination? You have a coordinating role in this matter. I believe that there are three areas where action must be taken: prevention, sensitisation, remedial action and enforcement. That does not mean that one must remain stuck at the first. We must not confine ourselves to sensitisation without tackling enforcement. It is an en-en-story with in addition to sensitisation also remediation where it goes wrong and enforcement where it is needed. How do you see it and will you take initiatives in this respect? Will you also draw up an inter-federal action plan against racism, as agreed in the coalition agreement? That is your task, Madam Secretary of State. Such an inter-federal action plan should have been there years ago, but it is still not there. I hope you can tell me who you will work with and when you will work it out. When will you bring that point to the Inter-Ministerial Conference and then work together on an inter-federal action plan? Madam Secretary of State, I expect you to pull that off. You're the coordinating secretary of state. You have to pull it off, but I'm not saying you're solely responsible. You understand there's a big difference. In your policy statement, you also said that work should be done as soon as possible, which was endorsed in the hearings on the evaluation of anti-discrimination and anti-racism laws. In the meantime, we are a few months away. You said at that time that you would convene the experts at the beginning of this year. In the meantime, have you called in those experts? If not, who will you convene? What input can we expect? When will you come to Parliament with this? In what way will you do the evaluation and with whom? What's the timing? When will you come to Parliament with this? Finally, the burden of proof is particularly difficult. What will or can you do about it? The burden of proof sometimes constitutes a high threshold. You said earlier, also in the news apparently, that there is only one item I hear now seven, but at least there is not a lot of such a sector that has a code of conduct. That's very little. I welcome your statement that something must be done about this and that we absolutely must encourage the sectors to work out the code of conduct. I'm okay with that. I will certainly support that, but it should not be an excuse not to do the rest. I hope the journalists have misunderstood you in that sense. If you take certain measures, this should not prevent further work being carried out in the meantime.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic136x.u10	Surely it is scandalous that we have to do this only now, isn't it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic136x.u11	Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic136x.u12	The social dialogue brings out opinions on taxes and on the tax shift, but it seems that this issue, which is so important, is not being dealt with.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic136x.u13	I call Mrs Lanjri.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic136x.u14	Mr President, I would like to conclude with one final question, but I am constantly interrupted. We must encourage the social partners to do so, but this must not relieve us of our responsibility to continue working on those points on which we can do anything. I hope you share that view.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic136x.u15	Mr President, Minister, Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, the employment figures for people with a migration background remain very weak in our country. We are at the tail of the peloton at European and international level. This remains unacceptable to liberals. We believe that every human being deserves opportunities, especially in the labour market, and regardless of his origins. In this way, it is absolutely unacceptable for us to continue. We have already seen soft measures in the past. During previous policy periods, too, there was a lot of ink on this subject and there was a lot of discussion about it, including in this committee. We have seen from the hearings that the inspection services are not really able to apply the anti-discrimination law in this area even today. This has to do, inter alia, with the particular intent to prove an infringement. So there are problems with the burden of proof. It is not easy to prove discrimination in the labour market. The burden of proof must therefore be re-evaluated, hopefully in a final conclusion of the discussions in this committee, in which we will eventually arrive at a number of findings or conclusions which we hope will be shared jointly by the members of the committee, in order to submit a position or opinion to the government. In this context, I would also like to point out the rigidity of our labour market. I have heard Mrs Lanjri replicate Mrs Demir's speech. It is true that this is the case and that international studies show that the fact that the labour market is being organized rigidly is very good for the insiders, so those between 25 and 55 years old who are or are not sufficiently skilled but actually meet the standard profile and know a high level of employment. However, a rigid labour market does not work for outsiders at all. In our labour market, for example, these are young people, older people, people with a migration background and people with disabilities. It is not obvious to them to get to work and that has to do with that rigidity. The high wage costs and a rigid labour market mean that a huge productivity is expected of every employee recruited. He needs to render. This makes it very difficult for employers to get the difficult groups to integrate effectively into the labour market. In fact, the government agreement stipulates that we will be tackling this rigidity of the labour market in the coming years. I believe that this should be at least a number of benefits, also in order to give the people with a migrant background on the labour market every opportunity. Apart from that, however, we cannot ignore the fact that there is a problem in society because of direct or indirect racism or discrimination based on a particular name, colour or background. In this respect, there is an effective need to consult with the social partners. They have already advised on much, but this matter is located specifically on their domain. We must also include good practice in the broadcasting sector, where we work with self-regulation and where we label ourselves which company is doing a good job and that label falls when checks show that this is no longer the case. This practice should also be applied in other sectors. Together with the social partners, the employers' and employees' organisations, we should create a kind of self-regulation across the sectors, in order to create a framework such as for example in the broadcasting sector. Only if we fail to do so will we have to give the inspection services the necessary means to be able to take effective action, at last, as a last resort. If we are still unable to do so, then we have to think further about solutions which we can develop together here in this committee and which have already been mentioned. Finally, Minister, Madam Secretary of State, I have just one question for you both. We will see you both in this committee today. Last week we heard your position, Minister, and today we heard your position through the media, Madam Secretary of State. My question is whether you have both already discussed a common position? That's what I'm looking forward to.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic136x.u16	Mr President, most of the previous speakers began to put everything in its context and explain it and ended by saying that discrimination cannot be done. I would like to start with this: discrimination cannot be done, regardless of the reason. No one should be discriminated against on the basis of his background. There are other forms, Madam Secretary of State. You quoted them in your speech, but this is a study of the Minority Forum specifically aimed at discrimination against people of different origin, which does not mean that other discrimination is inferior. We organised the hearings on that basis. Some of my questions have already been asked. So I do not want to repeat myself, but I will add a few more questions. Mr Lanjri has already referred to the evaluation of the anti-discrimination law. That evaluation had to have been carried out five years after the law came into being, but it did not. You did record them, didn't you? What is the state of play? Can you explain how you will handle this and what timing you foresee? Both Secretary of State Sleurs and Minister Peeters cited the Joint Committees which already included the provision of the anti-discrimination law. You have listed how many of them are already there. You want to encourage the other joint committees that have not yet done so. Then what is your approach? One can say that every month, but in what way would you encourage them to include the provision? During the hearings we also heard the inspection services. The name slips away for a moment, but one of the inspection services says that he has a proposal to improve working in this area. They were not yet prepared to share that proposal with us, but said that it was at the request of either of you. Perhaps one of you can tell us what the question is for the inspection services and what method they are talking about. What adaptation of work is it about? This is partly in the context of the issue of the minutes to be drawn up. We should not seek more minutes. First of all, we must aim for less or no discrimination. In case she is, she must be a criminal. In the other case, the law is of no use. Fourthly, Minister, we have already heard from you that you are prepared to have the mystery calls examined in order to combat discrimination in the labour market. The sp.a believes that it should not be the intention to provoke employers to discriminate. The mystery calls are a means for us to show whether or not there is a problem at all. There should be no witch hunt. If, however, the mystery calls show that there is an effective problem, we have objective data and we do not need to speak away from the fist, which we are doing in part. It is on the basis of the mystery calls carried out by the Minority Forum that we can have a substantive debate, based on figures and facts, which always strengthens the debate. Mr Minister, my questions are as follows. How do you see the mystery calls? You have indicated that from 1 April 2015, if I am not mistaken, they would be able to do so in the Economy sector and at the National Lottery. In what way are these mystery calls organized? The measure has already been approved and will enter into force tomorrow. Do you see the question you asked the NAR in the same way? How do you see the mystery calls? Madam Secretary of State, I would have liked to have your opinion on this. After all, I have not heard much of you explaining the point. What's your opinion on the mystery calls? I agree with Mr Lachaert's question and hope that the government will be able to reach a common position and that it will not remain the view of a minister. I think this is indeed a useful instrument. Mr Muyldermans has come to explain the mystery calls from the interim sector. He has put forward the idea of a campaign on discrimination. His proposal was to hang posters along the roads with the message that discrimination is stupid, to keep everyone awake. How do you see such a campaign? Do you support a campaign to make people aware that this is everyone's responsibility? We are all responsible for this. Are you open to a campaign? How do you see that?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic136x.u17	I would like to return to last week's plenary session, Minister. Although I don't need it, I felt a little sorry for you then. I have heard that you have a mother-in-law in Parliament, but I have the impression that a stepfather was also present in plenary.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic136x.u18	There's no relationship between the father-in-law and the mother-in-law.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic136x.u19	The coalition agreement was also discussed in plenary on the basis of the proposal you made in the media last week. Because of the discussion about the index jump, you have not been able to leave your balloon here. You've done that in the media. It was said in that plenary that this was not in the coalition agreement. Other things are in the coalition agreement, for example, zero tolerance. Moreover, I do not think that any measure that a government will take can be written down to the point in a coalition agreement. What it does say is that the government will encourage diversity and carry out information, sensitisation and fight against it. I think these are clear words. It also refers to the need for a non-discriminatory staff policy and a non-discriminatory recruitment policy. The proposal on mystery calls is trying to answer that. It is a question of access to employment. I do not normally like to refer to the coalition agreement, but these are things we like to read in the coalition agreement. I have just heard Mrs Lanjri and I think it is very important that someone from the majority should say that she hopes that the coalition agreement is not a piece of paper. I agree with her on this. The coalition agreement doesn't always suit me well, but this does. With regard to your proposal on mystery calls, I hear Mrs Lanjri saying that there is room for more. We have already made it clear in the media that we want to support every step forward. We are certainly asking for further investigation, and we want to support them with you. Whoever's having a problem with it, I'd like to ask which problems they are. As you yourself say, this is a fairly limited proposal. Strict conditions must be met. What kind of problems can we possibly have with that? Why wouldn't mystery calls be good in the fight against discrimination, and in other areas they are? What do those who oppose it propose, as stated in the coalition agreement, to do something against discrimination? That is something that does not yet exist, which seems important to me, because what else are we going to do here? I would also like to join in what Mrs Lanjri and Mrs Kitir have said: we are here together to talk very specifically about discrimination in the labour market and how we can do something about it very specifically. That must be the scope of this discussion. I am sorry that so much is always going to happen, but we really have to focus on that. Mrs Sleurs, I am glad that you once again condemn discrimination in this committee in a strong language. For me, what follows is still vague and certainly more concrete. You say that you have three specific points. The first relates to the evaluation of the cooperation agreements that exist. The second relates to the code of conduct, which only six sectors have supported. This has therefore to do with self-regulation of the sectors. Third, you're talking about the Social Inspectorate. You want to ask the social inspection to pay systematic attention to this discrimination. Then what is your response to what Minister Peeters has now proposed and proposed last week? We have heard Philippe Vanden Broeck of the supervision of social laws in this committee. He also brought us a text for intranet. It states that the main problem remains the evidence of discrimination in the application or access to a job. Then there is the question of whether mystery calls are indispensable for the detection of direct discrimination. There is even capital in the text of Mr Philippe Vanden Broeck. Apparently, they've been asking for that for years. You say that you want to ask the Social Inspectorate to pay systematic attention to the issue of discrimination. This seems to be a very specific question which it seems to have been asking for years and to which Minister Peeters wishes to answer. I look forward to hearing your views on the matter. I've heard things in the media. You would have said in an interview that this is not for right away. I'm very curious about your opinion. I had a number of other questions, but they have already been asked. These include an evaluation of the anti-discrimination law, the RB on positive action, etc. For me, all this may be made more concrete, and I would ask you to speed this up. Minister Peeters, I agree with an appeal that has already been made here. If you listen carefully, you will find that a lot of parties want to introduce the mystery calls. I propose that we simply do this with those who really take discrimination seriously. You will initiate a possible solution by providing an additional tool. There are also other possibilities. I am glad that Mrs Lanjri has also mentioned the practical tests. I see no reason that prevents us from moving forward on this matter with this committee and this Parliament. If necessary, an alternative majority may be sought. It would be nice if we could convince each other of the fact that discrimination really is not possible. There are a lot of tools and self-regulation can be even better. This is the only area where self-regulation is so much sought after, while the government itself must ensure the necessary laws, compliance with those laws and provide the necessary tools to enable that compliance. We have to stop spinning around. This is a first step. In my ideal world, it could go a little further, but this is a step that we want to support. I also note that many people support this measure. I would therefore like to call on you to continue with this.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic136x.u20	Don't worry, Mr. Clarinval, I won't be very long. Ethnic discrimination in the labour market is real, including in the public sector. In my view, the latter should set an example. But that is not the case. We have a legal basis, but it is not always respected. I will confine myself to the subject that is leading us today, even though I have heard that some want to go further. Two thirds of service securities companies therefore discriminate and violate legislation. Above all, there is a huge difference between the very high number of complaints and the number of minutes, which is close to zero. The law is not enough, because this process must be accompanied by a change of mentality. I would also like to stress that we cannot be content with an incantatory policy. I did not have the impression of hearing the same speech as the one circulating in the press and last Thursday in plenary. Madam Secretary of State, it is a matter of taking effective and pragmatic measures. In any case, I note several positive points which will allow us to move forward. So it is healthy that we can work with the social partners. Similarly, it seems to me wise to take examples of good practice and extend them in terms of prevention, awareness-raising and codes of conduct. Madam President, I believe that we should also rely on an analysis of European benchmarking. Interesting initiatives are being taken elsewhere.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic136x.u21	I end my speech with the mystery calls, because I think it can be an interesting instrument, provided it is strictly marked. The goal can't be to do anything with the mystery calls. They must be framed and also adapted to the way they can be used today. Madam Secretary of State, it would be interesting for you to assume and also have the courage to give your opinion in committee since you give it outside, more broadly by your party, which, I imagine, has interpreted your position. You're denouncing the mystery calls as if it were an attempt to stigmatize the bosses. It's like fighting sexual harassment or rape is about stigmatizing men. Perhaps I suggest you come out of a very narrow vision, both very incantatory – you say you want to do everything – but at the same time poor in terms of effective, concrete, pragmatic measures. I do not see much yet. Beyond that, let us come out of simplistic ideological discourses and rather try to see if the mystery calls, by marking them, adapting them and framing them strictly... Madam Secretary of State, I hear you sighing. Unfortunately, the microphones are very good in this room. Think! Is it stigmatizing men to fight sexual harassment? I dare say no. I hope you think so, too. At least in your title and skill, that would be a minimum. Using mystery calls is not an attempt to stigmatize bosses, provided they are framed and branded very strictly. Mr. President, I won't be any longer. I have no doubt that we will certainly have the opportunity to work on it in the near future and to make concrete progress in committee in addition to working with the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic136x.u22	Mr President, very quickly, in my turn, as others have done before, I wish to condemn discrimination in general and discrimination in hiring in particular, which is unacceptable. On behalf of my group, I wanted to reaffirm this to make it very clear. In that regard, it would therefore be appropriate in the future for the Government not only to act in terms of prevention but also in terms of sanctions. Mr President, on this subject, the hearings, the debate under the previous parliamentary term and the intervention of the ministers must alert us. The situation is complex and cannot be easily answered. I have the impression here of reliving the debate in the previous legislature on the wage gap between men and women. At the time, everyone agreed to discuss this unacceptable wage gap. No one dared to say otherwise. But when it was necessary to find concrete solutions to combat this wage gap during the debates in committee, it was seen that some parties were using these perfectly legitimate debates to make them weapons against companies in general or for purposes that were not at all the ones initially displayed. There is no simplistic answer to a debate as complex as the one we have to deal with today. At the time, still in the debate on the wage gap between men and women, sometimes very pragmatic solutions were presented by the employer's office to avoid additional costs. In particular, at the time, consideration was given to placing new burdens in the social balance sheet, although much information was already available. In this case we must have pragmatism and avoid falling into dogmatic debates. A quarrel between good and bad has no reason to be here. We must all be pragmatic. As has been said and repeated, the social partners must also be involved in the solution. It was important. The right solutions will be found hand in hand with the social partners. Finally, on the mystery calls, as Mr Daerden rightly said earlier, we are open to discussion on this and everything else. We do not have an exclusive and we are ready to discuss everything. There is no reason why we should not talk about this subject, like all the others. But Mr. Daerden gives me banana skin and wants an alternative majority. It is clear that it will be within the framework of the current majority, but also with the social partners, that we can bring about global solutions. It is certainly not by making a dogmatic debate that we can really move forward in the fight against discrimination. Every effort must be made to combat discrimination, but it must be pragmatic and not dogmatic. I have synthesized our position; thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic136x.u23	Mr Minister, Madam Secretary of State, first of all, the reason for the discussion is the report of the Minority Forum and the most striking finding of the Minority Forum was that the government as an employer appears to be the biggest discriminationinator. A number of nuances were introduced by the people of the VVSG, but apparently the government is sick in the same bed. Minister, Madam Secretary of State, I find it strange that we have not heard anything today about how you will combat discrimination in the government. Of course, one can ask the private sector to respect all kinds of rules, but who issues the rules must be the first to set an example. I am curious to see how you will sweep out your own door and how you will avoid discrimination there too. After all, the government has an exemplary role to play. In English they say practice what you preach. We can impose many rules, but it seems that respecting them is already more difficult. Minister, Madam Secretary of State, there is the story of Federgon. There have been a number of references to this, some very interesting questions have been asked by colleagues such as Mr Kitir and Mr Willaert, because of the lack of transparency, because it is good to work with self-regulation. Of course, at the end of the journey, there must be clarity as to who has failed where or committed an offence, in order to allow sanctions to be imposed if necessary. Minister, Madam Secretary of State, what do you think of the Federgon system? How do you look at the M.O.? What do you think of the results? Is there sufficient transparency, or is there something we can change there? An element associated with this is that Federgon's intention is not so much to punish but to change the behaviour of the companies concerned. The ultimate objective of an anti-discrimination law is not to impose as many fines and penalties as possible, but to fundamentally change the behaviour that gives rise to discrimination. In practical terms, and for this reason, I admire the efforts of Federgon........................................................................................................................................................................................... This should be the result of a good anti-discrimination law, rather than a constant review of where and who can be punished. So the question is: how important do you think education is and how can we give it a place in the debate? I now come to my basic ideas. Firstly, we are all aware today of the fact that there is little discussion about this in Parliament on the issue of discrimination in the labour market. It is true that we are all looking for solutions to combat this discrimination, even more intensely than others. I hope that, with equal intensity, we will also solve other problems relating to the employment of persons with a background to migration. I asked a question in plenary two weeks ago about the need to allow temporary work in the government, because the broadcasting sector is very important today for the employment of people with a migration background. I therefore hope that we will be equally passionate about this and implement what is stated in the coalition agreement. So the phenomenon is known. We know it. Secondly, we all believe that something needs to be done about it. There is not a single party in Parliament that says that it should just continue, as has been the case for years, namely one PV after ten years of existence. By the way, I think that is a huge step forward, because it has been different in the past. Even when there were other governments, much was confessed to the lips, but in the end little was done. In this sense, we are taking a huge step forward. However, let us be honest and call a cat a cat, ladies and gentlemen, there is one thing here today that divides us: the mystery calls in the private sector. That is the reality. The problem is that this point not only divides a number of parties, but clearly also the social partners, Minister. I've read the reaction of the VBO and Unizo. You know that house very well. I also read Voka's reaction. The terms used there to burn down the mystery calls are not misunderstood. I quote two, but that's their responsibility. I'm not saying that. VOKA talks about regular snitching systems. I refer to the free gallery of Mr Delbaere, the President of Voka, who appeared at De Redactie. I would also like to quote a statement today from Mr Bart Buysse, the Director-General of VBO: "It is a unilateral stigmatisation of employers. It doesn't solve anything. It only acts as an element of acidification.' Why am I quoting these quotes? If we want to find a solution, together with the social partners, then we must know that the subject is very divided. If one says that one wants an agreement from the social partners, then I fear, excellences, that it will not be acceptable. The government will need to find a compromise that will be acceptable not only to all parties but also to all the social partners. We do not want a compromise to do nothing, but a compromise to do something, to achieve results and to ensure that there is less discrimination in our society. That is the result we want to obtain. I ask you both whether you are prepared to find that compromise and what the conditions are for that compromise.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic136x.u24	Mr President, I would like to thank everyone for having an exchange of views with us. I note that, unlike certain reports, there is still work to be done here and that everyone does not want to leave it at words, but wants to do something. That is a very good thing. Everyone is against discrimination and racism. The question, however, is how to deal with this in concrete terms. I did that from my authority, which is important, but doesn't span everything. I will continue to do so fully and, together with my fellow Members, will continue to take the necessary initiatives to solve the problem in practice. I would like to do so with the committee and in consultation with it, but we will also take the necessary steps on the basis of the coalition agreement. A number of specific questions have been raised here, and I shall go into them. Firstly, as far as provocation and provocation are concerned, my cabinet has a draft law amending the Social Criminal Code. We will try to finalize that as soon as possible. As far as Mr Demir's question on provocation and provocation is concerned, we will provide you with the parliamentary documents. I have just said that the mystery call for the Economic Inspectorate will come into effect tomorrow. I would like to stress once again that the relevant legislative text was tabled as a draft law by Johan Vande Lanotte and Annemie Turtelboom. It's gonna start tomorrow. There have also been similar initiatives in banks and lotteries, where provocation was a problem that was resolved. We'll just take over. In other words, the person or persons to whom findings are made may not be provoked within the meaning of Article 30 of the preceding Title of the Code of Criminal Procedure. That's how it's formulated for the mystery calls that already exist. Mrs Demir, you were not part of the majority when it was adopted at the time.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic136x.u25	So why are you now putting forward this proposal? You know we're against it. Then why are you filing it? If you want a solution, you're suggesting something else, right?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic136x.u26	No comments were made initially from the majority. In relation to the port sector, Mr Demir has made some observations. Everyone knows that we are having a full discussion with the European Commission in order to bring about an adaptation and modernisation of the Major Act. Perhaps this modernisation will also provide a solution to the problems raised. Now I come to the 0.10 contribution of employers to risk groups. Already a certain percentage must go to the immigrants. I believe that the social partners can be further encouraged to use the 0.10 for risk groups more effectively for immigrants. Mr Daerden, you have stressed the importance of combating all forms of discrimination and you are, of course, right. We have not yet organised a debate with the National Labour Council, but I hope that we can do so as soon as possible. Mrs Kitir, with regard, among other things, to the approach of the Joint Committees, with a clear question from the Minister of Work and from the relevant Secretary of State, we can encourage them to carry it forward effectively. This may not have happened enough in the past, or perhaps they have many other concerns. I believe, however, that we can quite rightly say that the social partners in the joint committees must be encouraged to make effective work of it. We are now in a good time frame because they need to discuss sectorally the wage standard we were talking about earlier and many other issues. Perhaps this is the time to remind them that this problem is very important for the government, Parliament and this committee and that we expect them to pay due attention to it. As far as PVs are concerned, in the last three years, the TSW, the Social Law Supervisory Board, has handled sixty-one well-founded discrimination cases, most of which have been carefully selected and supported by the Centre. One PV was drawn up and in all other cases Mr Sleurs may specify that the Centre could have a detailed report from the TSW to take action, where necessary, in defence of the victim or for mediation. Before starting the mystery calls again, I would like to comment on a number of observations made by Mr Lachaert. As far as the rigidity of the labour market is concerned, I believe that we are continuing to do so. The President referred to temporary agency work for the public sector. We will do that. For the rest, I do not need any additional incentives; we will work as quickly as possible to bring the public sector and public enterprises into the group in which temporary agency work is possible. In the budget debate relatively recently, we have dealt with the sector-by-sector growth jobs which also offer opportunities for young people and certainly young immigrants. I think there's a lot of material in there already. As far as consultation with the social partners is concerned, I am very pleased that some are right to place a great deal of emphasis on this. I hope that they will continue to recognise the importance of the social partners in other matters as well. Much can and must be done in this respect. I do not agree with the President on the following. The reactions he has quoted are subject to the nuances I myself have made here. The same applies to Mr Lachaert. The stepped approach, so first a code of conduct to arrive at the mystery calls after a number of phases, is not sufficiently understood, as is the organisation of the mystery calls. If we sit around the table, they will probably react in a more nuanced way. Mr President, you are concerned about the social partners, and that is a credit to you, but in this context we will give you the necessary text and explanation to deal with matters properly. As has already been said here, employers and businesses must not feel endorsed. They must bring the debate in a positive way and put their shoulders behind it in order to resolve the issue. We can and will go beyond saying that this measure is stigmatizing, because everyone wants to do something effectively against discrimination. Of course, it must also be very concrete. If it has failed during a number of other phases and they have been given a chance to resolve it in a different way, then it can be done under strict conditions. I have just reviewed the conditions once again and you will be able to read them later because the texts will be distributed. In that respect, we can work in this way. Mrs Willaert, you were right to refer to the coalition agreement. I believe that any discrimination in the labour market is too much. We have to work hard on that. There is now a climate that allows us to move forward. Mrs Fonck, you are right, there are no arguments to qualify discrimination as a minor problem. You stressed the importance of the public sector to us. We are the first to set an example for companies. Mr President, I suggest that you also invite the relevant Minister for Civil Service, Mr Steven Vandeput, who will certainly take additional initiatives in this area, should you consider it necessary. I will inform him that he will not make a statement to the press in advance on matters on which he can discuss with you here in committee. I would now like to turn to the minutes. Mrs Fonck, I have already given information about the minutes. One minutes is not much! It must also become a priority. Inspections must be more effective and active in this area. This is a very serious issue and we must act with a clear and nuanced vision. Ms. Fonck, I also understand from you that mystery calls should be possible under strictly defined conditions. We need to be able to move forward on this nuanced path. I have no problem with looking into how things work in the other sectors. As has been said, there are areas where mystery calls are already effective. I have to check if that is the case in other countries. Mr Clarinval is no longer here. I believe that the social partners should also be involved pragmatically in this area. I understand that the debate on mystery calls can be continued for him. Mrs Lanjri, you have rightly raised a number of points, such as the division of powers. We should not move in the area of competence that has gone to the regions of the island. If I have read Mr Muyters' speech in the Flemish Parliament correctly, he wants to work very concretely and not rule anything out, and therefore look at the mystery calls further. That seems to me to be a good approach. I understand that the opposition there is very active with proposals of decree and such. At the beginning of April, a meeting was scheduled to be held with the regions and in particular with Mr Muyters in order to deal with this in a good way. No opinions have yet been requested from the National Labour Council. An action plan of the Social Inspectorate is being further developed. You know that the manpower of the Social Inspectorate is limited and that we must pay due attention to this. Mr President, you rightly referred to the report of the Minority Forum. If you want to know where the public sector is concerned, you should have invited Mr Vandeput. So that's kind of strange to me. Together with Mr Sleurs, I will ask the question, although I am convinced that he will take the necessary steps or have already taken them. You're wildly excited about the story of Federgon. That's right. I also said that self-regulation is definitely fine. We must make every effort to that end. That is an important step. Let us hope that we can now make progress in this respect. This problem is not new. We have been making the necessary efforts for years, with traps and standing up. I think it is a good system that can also be improved. However, the question is how we deal with bad students, and they are everywhere. I think further steps need to be taken there. I note that there is a very broad consensus on a number of proposals and that a number of other proposals absolutely still need to be discussed. Some of them may have been misguided because they think that everything has been completely talked out, quod non. The problem is serious enough to continue the debate. I will continue to work on this with my colleague. You are asking for an exchange of views with the Minister and the Secretary of State. You had that exchange of views. We will look with the government at how to deal with this further. If you're organizing a hearing, that's very good. This can make a strong contribution to a good policy. If you ask Ministers to discuss this matter, we have thought about it. In committee, people like to get the scoop, but I think it is particularly important that the thinking and discussion between the executive and the legislative power in the committee can be done openly and clearly. The argument that there should be a government decision before any thought can be given is, of course, a contradiction in terms of terms, because then we would come up with a draft law on which you can then discuss but not discuss it with the ministers concerned. Thank you for giving us the opportunity to do so here.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic136x.u27	Mr President, Mrs Demir, you asked a specific question about the cooperation agreement. It is correct that this cooperation agreement has been in force for some five years now. In the beginning, there were specific procedural difficulties and the cooperation agreement has now been adapted somewhat. The procedure is now simply by e-mail, but an evaluation is requested. I recently spoke to the Centre and the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men in my cabinet and that point was also discussed. The cooperation agreement is important because it allows for exchange and we need to look at its operation in practice. The Centre has received 385 complaints. That is the exact figure that the Centre has reported to us, and these are the complaints that have been dealt with by the Centre. The Centre shall seek consensus with all concerned. That is why I believe that we need to be able to evaluate this in order to see how we can deal with the detection and punishment of discrimination. Mr Daerden, Ms Kitir and Ms Willaert asked for the evaluation of the 2007 law. At present, this evaluation is in full development, together with the Centre and the Institute for Equality between Women and Men. We hope to be able to conclude this evaluation very soon. The evaluation has been going on for a few weeks and will continue to be so in the coming weeks, but it will continue to work very hard. If I have to put a specific timing on that, I must remind you that we are doing this together with the Centre. They hear the experts after we hear them too. They shall then draw up a report to be discussed in the Cabinet. This report will be available in the near future and further work can be carried out on the necessary adjustments. I come to Mr Daerden's comments on the implementing decisions for the 2007 laws. I've been talking about the positive action. Together with the Centre, we hope to achieve a result in the coming weeks in order to be able to express that positive action. As far as sensitization is concerned, I can say the following. We are certainly in favour of this. This is also contained in our policy notes. I insist that we continue to focus on such campaigns. Also strong brands continue to advertise. I also refer to the road safety campaigns. Campaigns on the issue of discrimination remain necessary. All this is done in consultation with Minister Peeters. We are both committed to these actions. Mrs Lanjri mentioned the Inter-Ministerial Conference. Mr Peeters has also pointed out that we must reach a common position on the mystery calls. Labour is also a regional competence. I think it is important to discuss this with the various states and to deal with it. It's an overarching matter. I am happy to do so, but I will do so in consultation, so that we can achieve clear results at the Inter-Ministerial Conference. There is a lot to discuss in order to come to results in the end. Mr Daerden and Mrs Fonck also said that the laws were there, but that the problem was anything but resolved. So all governments, actors and stakeholders in our country need to tackle the issue, together with the people on the ground. I'm going to go into the education of people. Mr President, you say that there is a lack of transparency on this issue. I think it's important to form people. That is why I have continued to insist on the code of conduct, which is important. It is also striking that a code of conduct was communicated by the NAR in 2008. In the end, only six sectors have accepted this code of conduct. So there is still a need for the campaign and a sense of urgency to make it clear to the sectors that the problem needs to be addressed. Such a plan is also a start to make it clear to the sectors and to employers and workers that discrimination is absolutely impossible and that we must do something about it. I certainly do not want to shuffle it off, but I can only regret the fact that only six sectors have really committed themselves after six years. I identified it and found it striking, together with the government, that there has been so little commitment. However, that is important. The same applies to the commitment of the government. Should we set an example? Yes, we must set an example, and I will do so together with Mr Vandeput so that we can respond to the government in this area. Around the Action Plan Racism, Belgium committed itself at the World Conference in 2001, but it has not yet done so. It is indeed my competence and I will look into what has been discussed in the past. We must look into this further and discuss it further, because 2001 was indeed a long time ago. So, Mrs Lanjri, I am sure I will take your point very seriously, so that we can work on it. But first, I'm going to look at what happened in the past, because I'm not directly aware of that. We have also found that it dates back to 2001, so we need to make it clear and see how we can deal with it. I want to be clear about the mystery calls. I've heard a lot of variants and different nuances here, which shows how difficult the problem is. That is why I want to make it clear that I certainly want to discuss this further with Mr Peeters. I referred to this code of conduct at the talks with the regions. Targeted samples are indeed a possibility within the sector, one should be able to discuss it. I hear the members of this committee say that it needs to be properly framed, that it needs to be properly aligned. This indicates what the President says, that we need to work together on this and see how we can solve it. And we won't do that by hitting each other in the ears. We must take the bull by the horns and discuss the problems within the government, within this committee and with the sectors, so that discrimination can finally be eliminated. Those were the answers to the questions of the members of the committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic136x.u28	Mr President, I have three comments to make. Firstly, Mr Peeters replied that, when other phases have failed, we must go a step further. His idea is the mystery call. However, when other phases have failed, we must look at the cooperation agreement. This agreement has not been evaluated. There is a cooperation agreement between the Centre and the inspection services. What went wrong? First, the evaluation must be carried out and it must be assessed how it has gone wrong. Secondly, Minister, you do not like me or my party. I don't know, but you don't like either one. You come up with an idea and you say you want to solve the problem. You're making a proposal, the mystery call. You have referred to Vande Lanotte and Turtelboom twice in committee, who have indeed given the Economic Inspectorate a number of powers. The Law of 30 July 2013 has also been amended for the financial sector. I don't know how to explain it. You're talking about Vande Lanotte and Turtelboom. That is indeed the work of Vande Lanotte and Turtelboom. However, we voted against the measure at that time. You and the Members here in committee can clearly call me the Flemish Madame Non. I will repeat it very explicitly, in case you had not understood, Mr Peeters. We are not in favour of the mystery calls, as you wish to apply them. (...) : (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic136x.u29	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic136x.u30	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic136x.u31	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic136x.u32	I suggest that Mrs Demir finishes her sentence and we move on to the next speaker. There is freedom of speech in Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic136x.u33	You referred for a moment to the growth jobs, on which a decision has just been taken. They'll be good for the immigrant workers, too. I'm glad you said that now. I think it is, too. This is at last a structural measure, with which we are working effectively at the threshold. The outsiders who are not yet on the labour market can be helped structurally through the growth jobs, for which we will look at gross costs. I'm glad you're saying you're positive about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic136x.u34	I note some happiness with Mrs Demir. Mr Lachaert has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic136x.u35	I had asked about the discussion between the two excellences. You've both brought your story, but I'm still hungry. Has the noise, which is on the line here and audible in our committee, been resolved? We intend to draw certain conclusions with the committee. It is therefore also advisable to have that debate here, as we started here. We can do that together, in a quiet way, and then draw conclusions. However, it is not the committee that first went public. So I hear some noise and I hope that we can lead to positive conclusions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic136x.u36	Mrs Kitir has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic136x.u37	I will not talk about the noise, but about the answers of the Minister and the Secretary of State. Firstly, I am pleased to hear that you will take up and discuss the idea of the campaign. I was gonna ask you about timing, but I'm not gonna get it anyway. I will question both of you about this shortly, to see what campaign you intend to campaign for this year, when it will start and where it can be expected, along the streets or elsewhere. I am already pleased to hear that you are picking up that idea and will look at it. Secondly, you said that you will carry out the evaluation of the 2007 law together with the Centre and with experts, that there will be a report on it and that you will be fully involved in it. When that report is completed, will you come and explain it to our committee? I think it is very important for all of us, as we have spent a lot of time in the matter and it is an important subject that regularly comes back to our committee. I would be grateful if that report could be presented in committee so that we can take note of it and continue the debate. Thirdly, you mentioned the codes of conduct and said that it is a pity that they were not included by all the joint committees. You'll both ask a question. I am pleased that you will take this opportunity under the wage standard. Last but not least, Madam Secretary of State, I'm glad you left the door open. You don't say "jjet," point "yet." That's a different story than Mrs Demir's. She is entitled to her own opinion, because she is a Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic136x.u38	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic136x.u39	No problem. You may. Mrs Demir says that it is not negotiable and that they are against it. She has a clear point to make. Mrs. Sleurs, you are Secretary of State, member of the government, with an executive mandate. I hope that these are not empty words that you have just said and that after two to three weeks we do not need to hear another story. You have clearly said that it is negotiable, but that it should be placed in a clear framework, so that it should not be anything. I hope, as you said on the previous subject, that you will look at the past to see what has already happened. I hope that you will do the same on this subject, so that we can find a solution on this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic136x.u40	Mrs Kitir, I did not say that I do not want a solution. I have said that I want a solution, but not the solution proposed by Mr Peeters here.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic136x.u41	Yes, and if you've listened carefully, you know I said that. I asked Secretary of State Sleurs what her opinion was on the solution put forward by Minister Peeters. She replied that it could be discussed, to which you said that you did not support that solution. Maybe I misunderstood. For me, what is particularly important is what the Secretary of State said.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic136x.u42	Ladies, we have an integral report. It is all recorded and we will be able to read it verbatim. We'll see who said what.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic136x.u43	Mr President, we have had fascinating debates here. During the hearings, several Members said that the time of speaking alone about discrimination is over. I share that view, and I have said so. I think it's time for action now, so don't rush it. We must stop blaming each other and saying that has said so, and because it has said so, I am not going to do so now. I believe that we should all remain calm and that we should look at the matter internally rather than saying what we do not want to do. (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic136x.u44	Well, look, it's like a kindergarten class here. Who started it? If we believe that we want to find a solution, now is the time. We have heard the Minister's and the Secretary of State's replies today. We'll take it and think about it. We will draw up a proposal that effectively tackles discrimination, in a good and sensible way. However, it must not become a faint cooker of anything. It should not become a tissue for bleeding, let that be clear. If everyone here wants to be clear, I want to be clear. It shouldn't be a cloth for the bleeding because otherwise it will be without us. Let's work together. I'm open to that. However, it must be effective. I hope that no bridges will be burned now or that no solutions will be made impossible.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic136x.u45	Thank you, Mrs Lanjri, for those wise words. We will indeed have to build bridges. We will have to find compromises. Mrs Willaert, would you like to say something? I'm sorry. I didn't see you raise your hand.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic136x.u46	Mr President, I would like to join Mrs Lanjri's appeal. There are so many people in this country who are of good will, who very much want to work. They are subject to discrimination. There are many other issues that also play a role, but discrimination plays a major role. Candidates with a non-Flemish sounding name have half less chance of being invited to a selection call. A Turkish candidate must make 44 % more applications to get a job. We owe it to those people, to ourselves, to our country, because people who do not find work bring costs to do something about it. That should not be a tissue for bleeding, as Mrs Lanjri says. There is already a great deal, but more can happen like the joint committees. There are laws that must be observed. There's gotta be some clues to it. There is a proposal, the mystery calls, that still needs to be discussed. There is also the proposal of the Social Inspectorate that a number of things are already well defined. I believe that this can be transposed perfectly into legislation. People have been asking for this for years. I'm glad to hear you're considering that, Mrs. Sleurs, to think about it. You want to ask the Social Inspectorate to put the fight against racism at the top of the list. We need resources and tools to do this. The mystery calls could mean something there. As they are described in their own text and in the text of Minister Peeters, it must be possible to finally take that step. It's not words, it's deeds.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic136x.u47	We said from the outset that we would organise hearings. I believe that these hearings have brought about the necessary results. There were first and foremost the discussions that we had, but much more importantly, there is now a great deal of focus on the subject. The momentum should be used to make legal adjustments so that discrimination can be combated. But, again, it will have to be a compromise, because in life, compromise is the only way forward. These compromises will have to be achieved in the social field and at the same time in politics. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to propose the following. In view of the work, the hearings that we are now completing, I propose that we try to reach an agreement in committee. I believe that we can do so on the basis of a motion for a resolution which can be tabled by the various groups. I shall then try to find some sort of common denominator, the compromise. The intention is to give you the opportunity to do so. You know our address. I suggest that you do what you need to do. We'll send another e-mail. I don't think we're gonna do that tomorrow. I would suggest that we try to find a solution as soon as possible. I have to keep an eye on the timing. The debate on the index jump has yet to be discussed in Parliament and we do not yet know when it will take place. So I'll keep you posted. In any case, it is our intention to land, so that we do not leave that blue blue. The debate on the draft law in plenary tomorrow will not take place.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic136x.u48	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic136x.u49	You have to ask the Minister that question. I don't or don't want to answer that. I may be able to answer that question, but I won't. Thank you, Mr. Minister and Mrs. Secretary of State, and the staff, for coming to our committee.
