ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic145x.u1	Mr President, Minister, at least 14 Belgians would have died in Cameroon for the most part by going to seek love and join their soul mate met on the Internet. The first facts date back to 2005. In 2011, the Brussels Public Prosecutor's Office opened an investigation into several suspicious deaths of Belgians in that country. These insatiable romantics thought they'd found love on the net. But in the end, unfortunately, it was death that struck their doorstep, with often, for their heirs, incomprehension and anger. Anger because, for them, there is no shadow of doubt: they have been poisoned by their exotic beauty after squandering their savings in this overwhelming love. Elements of autopsy reports attest to the presence of several toxic substances, while Western Union transfers show that the accounts have been, gradually, effectively emptied of their revenues. Over the past 10 years, 14 cases have been reported. It looks like the investigation is trampling. Mr.Minister, are we now aware of these facts? What is the status of the investigation to date? What are the reasons for the delay in the judicial management of the case? What are your relays on site? Have any new suspicious cases been reported recently? Would it be an organised sector or isolated acts? What are the last things you have? To your knowledge, have similar acts already been recorded in other countries?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic145x.u2	Mr President, Mr Blanchart, the Federal Prosecutor's Office has provided me with the answers to your question. The problem you are referring to is currently the subject of 17 cases involving 16 men, 14 of whom have died and 1 woman has died. With regard to the fifteen files relating to a deceased person, twelve are closed and two are currently under investigation in Liège. The only federal case still under way relates to the death of the only woman. It is due to be submitted on 18 June to the Chamber of Council of Namur for rules of procedure. The Federal Public Prosecutor's Office has filed applications for dismissal. The autopsy revealed nothing suspicious. In general, without violating the secrecy of the investigation and the medical secrecy, I can say that most of the victims suffered from various medical problems before leaving for Cameroon. None of the autopsies performed allowed the cause of their death to be attributed to the intervention of a third party. The same applies to toxicological expertise carried out both in Belgium and in specialized laboratories located in France. People who died in Cameroon or shortly after their return to Belgium were apparently living on the spot as most indigenous people, including with regard to their food, either in hygienic conditions and in a precarious state of health. However, according to the professor of forensic medicine Boxho, it is difficult for a European, especially if his or her health is precarious or his or her advanced age, to live in such conditions beyond a few months. No new suspicious cases have been reported recently. There is now nothing to conclude that there is an organized sector that would strip its victims before murdering them. On the other hand, attracting whites via the Internet to get money or something is a widespread activity in Cameroon's cybercafés. This is why, following my intervention with the FPS Foreign Affairs, the following opinion was inserted under the heading of travel notices: "Scams in various forms via the Internet are a new phenomenon which, in a relatively short time, has taken on substantial proportions. The meeting sites are particularly affected by these abuses where a young correspondent is looking for contacts with potential partners in Europe. The ultimate goal is either to be able to settle in Europe or to extort money from the potential victim or both. These practices are often accompanied by the imposition and extortion of large sums of money. With regard to Belgium, there has been an increase in meetings between young Cameroonians and older Belgians, often retired. These meetings often end badly for these Belgians." Similar cases of Internet fraud and extortion in Cameroon have been documented in other countries, including Switzerland.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic145x.u3	Mr. Minister, thank you for having shed light on these specific cases. I share the view that emphasis should be placed on how to combat these organised fraud routes. Their victims are often weak, old or socially isolated people. These are easy preys for these organized channels.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic145x.u4	Minister, I would like to share with you the situation of several FPS Justice officials who are questioning their final appointment. In fact, who had been engaged for about a year, these officials had been the subject of an interim appointment pending their certification of bilingualism. This provisional appointment expired on April 1. However, having still not had the opportunity to pass their bilingualism certificate to date, these officials, who would be about 50 in the same case, rightly question their future. Minister, I assume you are aware of the situation I have just outlined. Can you tell us what fate will be reserved for these officials? Will their provisional appointment be extended? Will there be redundancies or can they be permanently appointed?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic145x.u5	Mr Senesael, I assume that you are targeting the members of the judicial staff provisionally appointed, made available to the French-speaking court of first instance, the commercial court, the labour court, the police court, the public prosecutor's office and the Brussels labour court. I am well aware of this issue for most of these employees. This interim appointment in the bilingual framework expired on March 31, 2015. Pending the success of their language examination, whether successful or not, they will be automatically and definitively appointed to the court, the public prosecutor's office or the labour court where they are employed either on the bilingual framework or on the unilingual framework. It is clear that this has benefited from the continuity of the operation and service provided by these bodies.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic145x.u6	I thank the minister for his clear and precise answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic145x.u7	Happy birthday, Mrs. Van Vaerenbergh.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic145x.u8	Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic145x.u9	Your question No. 3491 is converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic145x.u10	Minister, four years ago your predecessor, Stefaan De Clerck, sounded the praises when I asked him how he evaluated the JustScan project. There has always been discussion about the distribution of the workload, because the court in charge of scanning the files and thus bearing the burden is not the only one to have the pleasure of doing so. However, an electronic file can bring some advantages. Making a copy is much faster. One can look at a file remotely and avoid situations where a accused person goes free, because his file has gone up in smoke. Your predecessor, Minister Turtelboom, said that JustScan would be fully exploited as soon as the new Consult Online project makes it possible to consult research files online, so that prisoners no longer need to be transferred. Advocates may then consult files at the Registry. The Minister did say that better agreements should be made on the burden sharing. I was therefore surprised when you said that in some places the scanners, which are not a cheap investment, are hardly used. Mr. Secretary, how many scanners were purchased? Which courts were they delivered to? How much does a scanner like this cost? What amount is allocated annually for the maintenance of the machinery? On which courts was a scanner used and JustScan applied? Where wasn't that the case? In the meantime, how has a better distribution of the workload been achieved? What is the current status of the project Consultation Online? How do you evaluate the JustScan project? What improvements do you consider necessary? Will you continue to invest in JustScan or will you continue to rely on a real electronic file that will make paper files disappear?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic145x.u11	Mrs Van Vaerenbergh, you will forgive me if my answer will suffer from the numerical nature of your question. So far, 39 scanners have been purchased for the JustScan project. All offices of investigators in Belgium have the possibility to use one or more scanners. Both the Dutch and French courts of Brussels have been provided with the scanners, as well as the courts of appeal of Mons and Brussels. Such a scanner costs about 8 500 euros, VAT included. An annual amount of EUR 169 000 is allocated for maintenance, excluding VAT. I keep a table at your disposal which gives an overview of the number of files and pages scanned by the sites since the start of JustScan. With the exception of Eupen, the last site was equipped at the end of 2013. I have a long list here that starts with Antwerp and ends with Veurne. In the meantime, work has been carried out in certain arrondissements to improve the distribution of the workload, as the parquet staff have been assigned to the Registrys in support of the scanning activities, for example in Brussels, Charleroi, Turnhout and Oudenaarde. The scanning of files has allowed that the files no longer need to be physically moved from the parquets and the correctional offices to the offices of the investigators. By writing scanned files on DVDs, the workload at the Registry was greatly reduced, as no paper copies of the large files need to be made for the benefit of lawyers. Since recently, the investigators have the opportunity to consult their files outside their own offices. The Consultation Online project is currently in pilot phase and is used in the Brussels Registrys and the Registrys of the judicial district of Luxembourg. Since January, prisoners of the criminal establishments in Marche-en-Famennes and Arlon can consult their files directly in prison and are no longer taken by the security corps to the Registry of the investigating judge where their file is located. The developments related to the electronic signature of the inventories of the Registrys of the investigation are being completed and are at the stage of validation. I will also make available to you the number of files consulted electronically from a distance per month in both Registrys, Brussels and Luxembourg. JustScan is a beautiful information project that was started and developed by my predecessors. I will continue to develop the possibilities offered by the project. In order to improve the legislation on electronic files and electronic signatures, I believe that modernisation, which could further increase the use of JustScan, is necessary. The more functionalities are expanded, the greater the motivation will be to use the instrument. For example, we would now be able to send e-pvs electronically from the police, which can automatically charge in the file, so that they do not need to be scanned again. Should I continue to invest in JustScan? There is not really a contradiction between further investment or deployment on the electronic file ab initio. As long as some pieces exist on paper, we'll have to scan them, but gradually we'll evolve into more digital native documents, which we'll have to keep the whole chain digital. The actual challenge is to avoid the culture of printing.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic145x.u12	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I will be able to take note of the written reply, which is numerical. My question was drawn up the same way. Thank you for the figures, which I will continue to study. I hope that we can really continue to focus on the electronic file, which I believe should be the final objective. I think we can save a lot of money. I hope every court will cooperate in those projects. You did not say that specifically, but you said when presenting the justice plan that certain courts would not use the equipment. I really hope that these are exceptions and that we will work with JustScan in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic145x.u13	Mr. President, Minister, according to a recent study by the International Centre for Reproductive Health (IHRC) at the University of Ghent, many young girls and even boys face the phenomenon of forced marriage. In large cities, it would even appear that five to ten minors are forced to marry each year. Minister, as we have already had the opportunity to talk about it, the current government is trying to fight forced marriage around the world. A motion for a resolution on this subject was discussed and voted on, not so long ago. We must, of course, welcome the efforts that are being made in this area. But we must also prevent this phenomenon within our borders. I have tabled a number of proposals to this effect and I intend to ask the Minister of the Interior about this. Minister, what measures are you planning to take to reduce or even eradicate the number of forced marriages, whether they concern minors or not, in our country? Have any concrete provisions ever come into being?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic145x.u14	Mr Minister, I will not repeat the problem, which my colleague has made clear. It is frustrating that such forced marriages take place under our noses, just when we are stepping up the fight against child marriages in the partner countries of our development cooperation. Child marriages are also forced marriages. In the case of a child marriage, we can certainly speak of forced marriage. It goes against all our legal principles and our culture. Although on average it is only about ten marriages a year, and even if that seems to be peanuts, this issue needs to be addressed very clearly and vigorously. Child marriages are a violation of both child and human rights. My questions are as simple as they are obvious. Are you taking measures to prevent child marriages? What are these measures? Have you already taken concrete steps?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic145x.u15	Mr President, Mrs Jadin, Mrs Jiroflée, I have read the press release of the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men on the colloquium and the recommendations contained therein. I do not have the qualitative study that has been presented, nor therefore the specific figures and problems that are highlighted in it. In the press release, both the terms "child marriage" and "mandatory marriage" are used. They often run together in the case of child marriages. However, we must always bear in mind the distinction between them when we define a policy in this area. Not every forced marriage is like a child's wedding. I would also point out that it is also possible under Belgian law for a minor to marry, especially if he is authorised by the family court. In addition, account should also be taken of private international law in the case of marriages involving a non-Belg or where the marriage is carried out abroad. The recommendations appear mainly to relate to forced or indirect marriages of children. I would like to nuance the observation that forced marriages are happening right under our noses, without wanting to deny or minimize this distressing problem. The fact that forced marriages are not always identified by civil-status officers is possible, but that Belgian civil-status officers are celebrating forced marriages of minors would surprise me a lot. If this happens, it must be extremely rare. As stated in the press release, the existing legislation is sufficient and emphasizes that these practices are not tolerated in the country. Apparently, the problem is that this legislation is not sufficiently known and that its application is not obvious. It is true that it is easier to prove a white marriage, because the element of the advantage of residential status comes into play, than a forced marriage. The burden of proof of coercion is more difficult. The recommendations which are briefly cited are interesting and cover several aspects which fall within the competence of several members of the Government and the Communities. As far as I am concerned, reference is made to the letter of 6 September 2013 concerning marriages of convenience. In principle, this letter also applies to forced marriages, although it does not contain any criteria which may indicate forced marriages. If such criteria can be developed, I see no objection to including them in the circular. In addition, there is also the criminal law policy, which is conducted together with the College of Attorneys General. Before talking about concrete measures, it seems to me better to wait for the national action plan against gender-based violence 2015-2019. The Institute for the Equality of Women and Men has already prepared a project on this subject, of which this press release and the recommendations are a prefiguration. On the basis of this plan, we will then be able to take multidisciplinary measures.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic145x.u16	Minister, thank you for your answer. I'll have a lot of fun reading it again. I understand that anything that contravenes the rules established in our country is an offence. I believe that the actual cases of such marriage in our country may be smaller given the legal provisions in force. That being said, and perhaps my question was not clear enough, we can still see that in our country many minors are victims of forced marriages. I know a study is under way and we're trying to collect missing data. Nevertheless, I believe that the bill to ban children from leaving the country for forced marriage could, of course, fall within the scope of reflection to eradicate this phenomenon.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic145x.u17	Minister, I can very well imagine that things may be included here that cannot be taken into account. I can also imagine that the problem is certainly not sufficiently well-known. The purpose of my question was just to pull the alarm bell. If things happen that are contrary to our legal principles and our culture, then they certainly need to be dealt with. I therefore urge that we examine whether or not things are happening that are not acceptable and could endanger those children.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic145x.u18	Mr. Chairman, Minister, it has been six years since the Business Continuity Act (BCA) replaced the judicial agreement. It was amended in August 2013 to restrict its access conditions. In Belgium, more than 50,000 companies are facing financial difficulties. We believe that this law has not really achieved its objective. The problem is twofold. On the one hand, following the August 2013 amendment, which restricts access conditions, LCE's applications decreased by 27% in 2014 and by 50% at the beginning of 2015, while the economic situation is tense. On the other hand, 70 to 80 per cent of the companies applying for the procedure still fall into bankruptcy. There is also a significant lack of awareness of the legal provision among entrepreneurs, despite information campaigns, which means that companies are using it too late to remedy their situation. Minister, what is your assessment of the six years of the Business Continuity Act and the 2013 restrictions? What can we do to improve the system to reduce the number of bankruptcies of companies using it? How can we increase the knowledge of the scheme among companies?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic145x.u19	Mr President, there is a joint question from me and a colleague. My question was mainly about the figures on the WCO story, the law on business continuity. This is about that question, isn't it? [[Assent]] The WCO, the law on business continuity of 2009, is now more than five years old. The coalition agreement provides for an evaluation of that legislation. I would like to ask a few specific questions on this point, because in the end this legislation was intended to reduce the number of business bankruptcies and to try to find solutions for these companies in a sort of interim period. Mr President, have there been any figures on the number of companies that have used them and, if necessary, on the results? How do you see this, given the coalition agreement and the evaluation announced in it? In what ways could there possibly be a proactive policy to reduce the number of bankruptcies in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic145x.u20	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there is always a delicate balancing exercise in the legislation to organise the rescue of firms in difficulty. It is indeed a matter of avoiding bankruptcy and liquidation for these companies, provided they are viable, but without unduly affecting competition – that is, avoiding protective measures that are too prolonged or irrelevant. In this regard, the Business Continuity Act of 31 January 2009 was able to play a positive role. Moreover, the recent changes introduced in 2013 were aimed, inter alia, at remedying certain abuses as indicated above. The last study on the application of the WCO on the continuity of the companies was carried out by Graydon. The study shows that a total of 6 435 undertakings have undergone legal proceedings. However, my services do not have any information on the number of companies for which the procedure was successful. As I pointed out in the policy note I provided to your assembly, an assessment work will be finalized on business insolvency legislation. If this evaluation concludes that there is a need for concrete legislative changes, a bill will be prepared and tabled to this effect. The evaluation of the WCO itself will be carried out through wide consultation with different actors of justice, as well as with the interest groups that are confronted daily with the application of the WCO. As far as business awareness is concerned, the Business Continuity Act provides for the Commercial Court to initiate a commercial investigation when it learns that a company is experiencing financial difficulties. My services have already produced a brochure on this subject which can be consulted on the Justice FPS website and which can also be obtained on request. In addition to the WCO, the Bankruptcy Act of 8 August 1997 will also be reviewed in order to take the necessary measures on, inter alia, fraudulent bankruptcies. The law will be better aligned with the WCO as part of a proactive policy. In particular, in terms of guaranteeing and changeability, a thorough coherence between the two laws will be sought, thus promoting second chance entrepreneurship. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic145x.u21	Minister, thank you very much. I had no doubt that you were not waiting for my question to deal with this problem. I understand that you and your administration take seriously the effects and evaluation of this legislation. It seems to me that we could make further progress in terms of information for businesses. That is why this question should also be asked of your colleague in charge of administrative simplification. Some measures could thus be taken in parallel. Anyway, thank you for taking this case with you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic145x.u22	Mr President, Minister, it is good that there will be an evaluation, also to draw attention to that law. That will in itself yield something. The honourable Member referred to cooperation with fellow ministers; there may indeed be a task for the Minister responsible for Economic Affairs to look at how these various companies can be awakened and to indicate their existence. In my limited practice, I find that it is mainly the commercial courts themselves that often deal very well and proactively with this. At least some do, but others don't. For example, in Tongeren, which is a bit of my biotope, the people who get certain invoices and get into trouble, are reminded of them and are accompanied in a very proactive way. In other places this is much less the case. That is not, of course, a criticism of one judge or another, but perhaps we can encourage a certain proactivity from the judicial authorities, in cooperation with the other competent ministers, when it comes to the entrepreneurs themselves, who actually need to be informed. So I think it's a good thing we're going to have an evaluation. I may be going to table a number of small legislative proposals to correct minor punctual issues, but I will, of course, do so in consultation with the cabinet and after I have received your approval. That goes without saying, since we belong to the same family.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic145x.u23	Questions Nos 3536 and 3537 by Mr Denis Ducrame are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic145x.u24	Minister, at the end of May a catch-up allowance will be paid for the disabled. It is being increased from EUR 308 to EUR 468 in the context of poverty reduction and prosperity this year. This is good news, as it improves the quality of life for those concerned. However, depending on the income, this premium is often included in the herd for people who are subject to maintenance obligations, so that the final result for the person concerned becomes zero because the catch-up premium is fully confiscated. However, please do not misunderstand me, because people who are subject to maintenance obligations must also comply with them. There is no discussion about this. However, the question is whether the catch-up premium should be fully covered by the maintenance obligation if they receive one. Is it true that in some cases the catch-up premium is entirely covered by the herd and that the catch-up premium sometimes fully meets the maintenance obligation? Do you intend to make such specific premiums proportionate, i.e. that the attachment is partially made, so that the person concerned still retains some of the catch-up premium?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic145x.u25	Mrs Temmerman, the summary of Articles 1409, 1a, and 1410, Paragraph 1, fourth, of the Code of Justice shows that it is possible to provide for a limited attachment of invalidity benefits through a system of four discs, which determines how much of it is enforceable. Article 1410, Paragraph 2, of the Code provides that allowances to disabled persons shall be totally exempt. However, Article 1412 of the Court's Code provides that such limited attachment or total irreconcilability shall not apply in the context of maintenance obligations. The creditor entitled to maintenance benefits enjoys a special preference under the law because the legislator has chosen to put the interests of the beneficiary first. This means that the limitations on the attachment of invalidity benefits and the allowances granted to the disabled cannot be relied upon against him, allowing him to confiscate those amounts in full.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic145x.u26	Thank you, Minister, for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic145x.u27	Minister, I had a question about the legal fees, which you are, of course, well aware of. Nevertheless, I would like to draw attention to some peculiar situations arising from the application of the legislation in force. We all know that justice fees are determined on the basis of the amount claimed in the final conclusion. However, there are certain statements, for example, I know of such examples as EUR 22 000 in the last conclusion, but only EUR 4 500 is granted. What does one judge decide? It allocates the basic amount to that category for claims between EUR 20 000 and EUR 40 000, i.e. EUR 2 200. However, it could also grant the amount applicable to claims between EUR 2 500 and EUR 5 000, which is EUR 650. You will agree with me that a legal fee of EUR 2 200 out of a sum of EUR 4 500 is totally out of proportion. I also know other judges, who decide, for example, that three quarters of the claim is not granted in the final conclusion. Consequently, the court is to vent the costs and to grant only one quarter of the court's fees. However, by leaving the possibility of arbitrariness open, peculiar situations arise. That is why I have the following question. Are you considering planning interventions in this area, so that the justice fee is granted on the basis of the amounts finally granted?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic145x.u28	Mr Degroote, the justice fee is calculated in accordance with Article 1022 of the Civil Code and the Royal Decree of 26 October 2007 fixing the rate of the judicial fee. It is impossible to claim the judicial compensation on the amount which will ultimately be awarded by the court, since that amount is not known at that time. However, Article 1022 of the Civil Code provides that, at the request of one of the parties to a special decision, the court may reduce or increase the judicial compensation without exceeding the maximum and minimum amounts laid down by the King. In condemning him, the court shall take into account the financial capacity of the losing party to reduce the amount of the compensation, the complexity of the case, the contractual fees for the successful party and the manifestly unreasonable nature of the situation. In addition, reference should be made to the judgment in cassation of 17 November 2010 in Case P.10.0863.F, which found that the court could calculate the judicial compensation in the event of an abuse of law on the basis of the amount awarded rather than on the amount claimed, if the latter resulted either from a manifest overvalue which the normal, prudent and careful seeker would not have committed, or from an increase made in bad faith which was the sole purpose of artificially raising the amount of the claim to the higher disc. Consequently, the figure of the abuse of law protects the person liable for the legal compensation from a conviction motivated solely by the creditor's claim.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic145x.u29	Thank you, Minister, for your detailed reply. I know all these principles and legislative provisions, of course. I can only conclude that in practice it remains possible for magistrates to grant what they want. If I wanted to, I could make a claim, grossly too high in relation to what I can actually obtain. In this way, I can obtain even higher judicial fees. If abuse of law is the only means, the person concerned is obliged to appeal for it. I believe that this matter should be brought to your attention. In my view, the law should lay down means so that the judges can not be so free to decide on these legal fees, because in the long term this could lead to further abuses.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic145x.u30	Mr President, Minister, I had originally asked my question to the Minister for the Interior because I thought this was a matter of security. However, the question was passed on to you. Workers at Zaventem airport need a badge to enter the airport, which is, by the way, obvious. That badge needs to be renewed every three years. Previously this was done by BIAC. After a brief examination, the badge was delivered to the employee via the employer. A few months ago, this task was taken over by the State Security Services in view of the current problems. Since then, many employees, people who have been employed at the airport for more than 20 years, have encountered difficulties in renewing their badges. If an employee does not receive a new badge, it automatically leads to a preventive suspension. During that period, therefore, that person will not receive any remuneration until the appeal is settled. According to the persons suspended, although temporarily, the security services of the State rely on criminal investigations of the past in which they were always free. However, for state security, the fact that there has been a criminal investigation would be sufficient not to renew an access badge. We must, of course, take account of the fact that people are being deprived of their jobs, and I do not mean that the safety rules should not be applied very strictly in the present circumstances. So I have a few questions. Can you tell me again what procedures an employee has to go through at Zaventem airport in order to renew his access badge? Is it true that the security services of the State rely on criminal investigations of the past that exonerated workers and in which no one was actually prosecuted? If this is true, can you ask the State Security Services to amend those procedures?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic145x.u31	Mrs Temmerman, any person wishing to access the secure area of a civil airport must have an airport identification badge. Such a badge is delivered by the airport authority which makes its decision on the security aspects depend on a safety advice from the National Security Authority. The National Security Authority consults the State Security Services but may also ask the federal police and military intelligence and security services to provide useful information. Where the safety advice of the National Security Authority is positive, both the applicant and the airport shall be informed accordingly. An airport identification badge shall be delivered by the airport authority. A negative safety advice shall result in a definitive or temporary suspension of the application. In such a case, only the Directorate-General of Aviation at the FPS Mobility and Transport will be informed by the National Security Authority. As usual, the Directorate-General of the Aviation will then inform the applicant of the decision. A negative safety advice may be appealed to the appeal body on safety clearances, safety attestations and safety advice. This is one of the executive independent bodies composed of the presidents of the I Committee, the P Committee and the privacy committee. As regards your second and third questions, in the procedure for obtaining and renewing an airport identification badge, the State Security Services perform only the role of providing information. The procedures followed by State security are laid down in the Law of 11 December 1998 on classification and security clearances, safety attestations and safety advice. In concrete terms, this means that the State Security Services check whether they have elements relevant to the assessment of the security risk that a person may pose in the particularly sensitive environment of the airport environment. These elements may relate to criminal data collected in the context of its intelligence work. The National Security Authority considers these elements in the final decision on the safety advice. There is currently no reason to review this procedure.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic145x.u32	Mr Minister, I understand that in the present circumstances we must be very strict, but apparently we are much stricter than in the past with people who have been working in the airport without problems for 20 years. They are now experiencing difficulties, which sometimes means that their wages are suspended for months. On appeal, they may be right and can get back to work, but in the meantime they have received no pay for six or seven months. It is necessary to consider how much more stringent action is now being taken. Once again, I fully understand the security aspect, but one should not exaggerate and deny people jobs and, above all, pay.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic145x.u33	Mr President, Minister, the summary judicial procedure for ordering payment is a very old system which has long been incorporated into the Code of Justice and which is quite unknown. Let me tell you an anecdote. When I, as a starting lawyer at the late peace judge Rakels, the father of Heidi Rakels, tried to initiate a procedure to get justice to order payment, he called me to ask me what I was trying to do. I pointed out to him this article. He knew it very well, but he still advised me never to do it again and just put out a subpoena, which was hard enough enough. So far the anecdote, which, however, shows to what extent this system was known or overlooked and which, because of its practical inapplicability, caused this type of reaction. Again, nothing but good about justice of the peace, Rakels, who was a very good judge of peace. A number of legislative changes have been made on the system of summary justice, extending its application to higher amounts and to cases which may come before the court of commerce. I like to hear whether this system is being used a lot or not? Shouldn't we be working on the system itself in order to get even better application? Where some people believe that the system of summary justice can lead to abuses too quickly and debtors are convicted too quickly, I am convinced that this is by definition the ideal system to ensure that certain debtors, who have very small debts that they do not pay and who are often faced with much higher court fees associated with the collection of those debts, ultimately have to pay more court fees than debts. That cannot be the intention. I think that this system is very suitable for this purpose. Minister, I have asked you a number of numerical questions. Can you see how we could achieve an improvement in the system? I believe in this system in itself, and I believe that it is also your commitment and conviction to simplify, speed up and make it cheaper for those seeking justice. After all, the aim of all of us is to reduce the threshold to go to justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic145x.u34	Mr President, Mr Terwingen, unfortunately the College of Courts and Courts cannot give me this information, but as you said yourself, the summary administration of justice to order payments is unfortunately not a great success. Discussions in the government to introduce a new procedure for the recovery of undisputed debts into the Court's Code have begun. As described in the Justice Plan, there is the idea that, in addition to the existing summary judicial procedure, which is a judicial procedure involving a judge, an administrative procedure should be initiated without the intervention of a court, which could nevertheless, under certain conditions, generate an enforceable title. The summary procedure could therefore continue and be applied to those who wish to follow it. Please note, in the proposed procedure to which I referred earlier to recover undisputed debts, the court would be relieved of tasks which do not belong to its core business. We will certainly be able to discuss this further in the debate on potpourri designs.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic145x.u35	Mr President, Minister, I look forward to further discussions at the potpourri.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic145x.u36	Mr President, I would like to apologize to you, to your committee, to your committee staff and to the Minister for the acute uproar of enthusiasm and commitment that I present here with various questions about Justice. I must, of course, ensure that my statistics, which will be published in the newspapers in a number of years' time, do not fall entirely behind those of my fellow Members who ask far more questions than I do. So you must allow me to ask you a few questions. I'm trying to keep it somewhat useful. In the context of this usefulness test, this question is particularly important. You will suspect me that this question is a little to my advantage, because you know that the police zone that was last merged and formed is the police zone LAMA. If you ask me, that's an unfortunate name that stands for Lanaken and Maasmechelen. You will, of course, think that the question of reimbursement of the costs of sending minutes, which, according to a certain circular, should be borne by the public prosecutor but have been advanced by a number of police zones, meets and benefits the LAMA police area. However, there is nothing less true, because if these payments were to be made as they should be in the context of the circular in question, and as my question said, these funds would be paid to the commune of Lanaken and not to the Lanaken-Maasmechelen zone. It is about things that date back to the time before the establishment of the zone. In fact, you will appreciate that, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, to a liberal mayor, Marino Cologne. It is also a bit at his request that I ask this question. Mr Minister, is there any possibility or are there any prospects of reimbursement of postal charges that would create a police area for sending minutes, as apparently, according to a circular, should have been repaid but not yet repaid? By the way, it's about shipping costs that were paid a long time ago. I see in the question itself that the postal charges paid from the period from 1 January 2011 to 31 December 2013 were refunded, but those from before, made in the years 2005 to 2010, would not have been reimbursed. Hence my punctual question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic145x.u37	Mr Terwingen, the recovery states of the police zones are paid through the courts' offices and courts as locally managed court fees. In view of the savings in budgetary resources, including legal costs, it is possible that some arrears could not yet be paid. Moreover, the submission of these recovery statements is subject to limitation periods. In particular, it shall be checked whether they have been submitted in good time, or whether they have been lodged late with the judicial authorities, after which no payment has been made. Recovery States, which were lodged in good time and in accordance with the correct procedure, shall be settled by the commission at the disposal of the Registry concerned for expenses relating to court costs. Budgetary control shall provide funds for the payment of court fees. These funds should clear the arrears of previous years, so that only cost statements submitted in 2015 would have to be paid with the 2015 court fees. For example, the FPS Justice works towards a progressive discharge of its overdue invoices. If the police zones have any questions about this, they should contact the central court fees department.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic145x.u38	Mr. Secretary, I'll pass this on to the mayor of Lanaken. The point is to prove that the funds requested at the time, which relate to five years ago, were rightly and correctly applied for. We'll see if they can prove this. If I have understood your answer correctly, I believe that funds are still available to pay for such arrears.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic145x.u39	Mr Minister, I am sure you have already heard or heard any complaints about the operation of the Central Commission for the Confiscation and Declaration of Abuse (COIV). For example, I know of a case in which COIV has failed to comply with a judgment of the appeal court ordering the release of certain amounts since 2013. The normal deadline for handling such cases would be six weeks. According to some, the cause lies, on the one hand, in the shortage of COIV staff and, on the other hand, in internal problems. Anyway, the citizen is the victim of it and it cannot be. Hence my questions. Are you aware of the various complaints about the malfunction of COIV? What do you think are the problems and what will you do to improve the functioning of the COIV and ensure that the usual deadlines are respected?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic145x.u40	Mr Degroote, for some of the tasks assigned to COIV by the legislator, this institution, which is part of the Public Prosecutor's Office, functions as an executive department of the courts and prosecutors. In order to fully incorporate this task of executive service, several conditions need to be met, such as quality information from the justice actors to COIV, rapid and adequate flow of information from the justice actors to COIV and efficient information processing within COIV. I do not have any specific information on the example you are quoting in your question, but can refer to the measures proposed in the Justice Plan. You will find them in the Annex to the reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic145x.u41	Minister, in the future we will have to play a little less on the ball in this area. If we just let COIV go free, then such things will happen. It is not possible for the public to have to wait for the return of funds that they are entitled to. I think there's a lot more going on there. I hope that your justice plan will produce something in the COIV in the short term, otherwise it will not be a solution.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic145x.u42	Mr President, Minister, at the end of the 1990s, a thorough coordination of Belgian company law had led to the introduction of the Company Code. For 35 years, many pieces of legislation have amended the Code. It therefore seems to me appropriate to assess the situation in depth. I think we agree on that. It is therefore necessary to do so all the more since, in the government agreement, an effort is planned to make Belgium more attractive to domestic and foreign companies. From the point of view of foreign entrepreneurs, Belgian company law is far too complicated. This is not without consequence, since it often hinders entrepreneurs who want to develop an activity at home. According to my information, this thorough clean-up of Belgian company law should in particular abolish SPRL-S (private company with limited liability starter) and SPRLU (private company with limited liability unipersonal). The aim, unless I am mistaken, would be to limit capital companies to two forms: SA (anonymous company) and SPRL (private limited liability company). The SA would be limited to "large" companies and would be the way to access a listing on the stock exchange while the SPRL would be made more flexible by removing the capital requirements to be subscribed. The removal of capital requirements and increased flexibility would therefore make SPRL-S and SPRL-S unnecessary. Minister, can you confirm to me the proposed deletion of the SPRLW and SPRL-S? Do you have a calendar? If so, can you communicate it to me? Have you met the sector about this? What do you intend to do for existing SPRL-S and SPRL-S? How can we ensure the transition without posing difficulties to SPRLs while respecting the legal provisions?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic145x.u43	Mrs Cassart-Mailleux, with regard to your questions concerning the abolition of SPRL-S and SPRL-S, I can inform you that, in the government agreement as well as in my political orientation statement, I have made it clear that Belgium must be even more attractive to national and foreign companies and that, in order to do so, company law would be adapted or simplified. A first survey by my experts shows that reforms are needed. However, you are aware that such changes first require consultation with stakeholders and interest groups. The way to work to ensure that these consultations take place in the best possible conditions is under consideration. Once the working method has been defined, the necessary conclusions can be drawn and transposed into a legislative process. It is important to make it clear that, in the course of this exercise, we have in any case the will and the legal obligation to take European developments into account.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic145x.u44	Minister, thank you for your answer. We agree on the need to make our country more attractive by giving investors the opportunity to come to Belgium. So this study will come out. Once you have developed the method of work, I will ask you again to know the evolution of this very important issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic145x.u45	Mr Minister, this is a follow-up to my question of 11 February 2015 on certain forms of aggressive begging in our cities, which I asked you together with Mrs Temmerman. We do record quite a few reports of problems in Ghent and especially in the station district. It was recently reported in the media that only one fine could be collected out of the approximately 80 gas fines awarded by Ghent last year. The problem is that the beggars are very difficult to identify and if they are identifiable, they are inability. It is very difficult to make them pay a fine effectively. We have already discussed the possible criminalisation of begging in the previous committee. But that wouldn't really teach much. If a gas fine doesn't help, criminal prosecution will run into the same problems. You said a number of interesting things in the answer at the time. For example, you have announced two new mailing letters. What is the state of play? Offer an answer to the problem of aggressive begging. What exactly is the purpose of the circulars? Are you interested in a solution whereby the proceeds can be seized immediately by the police when determining aggressive begging? Since the perpetrators are difficult to identify and are often inability to act and can hardly be fined, the seizure of their proceeds could perhaps be a solution. Do you see any other initiatives possible against those often internationally organized gangs that cause nuisance?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic145x.u46	Mr Lachaert, a new circular on trafficking in human beings was adopted on 30 March and signed by the College of Attorney General and all the relevant ministers. It enters into force on 1 May and deals with trafficking in human beings in general, but also deals with the exploitation of begging. Attention shall be paid to cooperation between the actors concerned, the research method and the protection of victims. It also contains indicators with a specific heading on begging and small crime committed in the context of exploitation by a third party. The circular letter was explained at the end of March to the reference magistrates Human Trafficking and a number of specialised police officers in the framework of the expertise network human trafficking and smuggling. In a subsequent phase, a working group of the College of Attorneys General draws up a supplementary text to that COL, specifically on the exploitation of begging. These texts are aimed at tackling serious and organised crime, which includes the exploitation of begging, and do not deal with aggressive begging, which is neither legal nor difficult to define. If aggression involves a physical attack, criminal law is, of course, applicable and must be applied. When it comes to intrusive begging, action by administrative police must be taken at local level. Bedelarij is not in itself a criminal offence, but can be sanctioned locally at administrative level in the context of dealing with nuisance and public law enforcement in public space. An active prevention policy may also be more relevant than a criminal law approach. The seizure of proceeds from begging must also be considered in this context, since no criminal offence was committed. I would also like to refer to my colleague from the Interior and Security.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic145x.u47	Mr. Secretary, I'll take a look at that letter. In any case, I am pleased that attention is being paid to this problem, which is recognised in this way. In my opinion, the possible seizure of the proceeds could also be an extra way out. I shall first examine the content of the circular letter and I suggest that it be evaluated after a while to see how it will work out in practice. We can then consider whether or not we should re-examine this issue in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic145x.u48	Mr Minister, my second question concerns the betting offices. As regards Class IV gaming devices, the Royal Decree of 22 December 2010 establishes a maximum number of gaming devices of that class. Criteria are also set out to organise the distribution of these establishments. More specifically, it stipulates that there can be no more than 1 000 fixed gaming devices in our country in Class IV and that these devices must be at a minimum distance of 1 000 metres from any other fixed establishment. Currently there would be 550 of these betting offices in our country. However, I have heard that the intention is that I may have been misinformed to reduce the maximum number from 1 000 to 600, but to give up the perimeter. The chances are very high that all the betting offices will continue to concentrate in cities, which is actually already the case today. The cities give place to most of those 550 betting offices, so the limit of 1 000 is actually just too high. The abolition of the perimeter will, however, lead to an even greater problem in cities. There is also a lot of uncertainty about the opening hours of betting offices. Apparently, they cause a lot of trouble in a lot of cities. It is not clear whether they provide a service or sell products. According to the Gaming Commission, this is indeed a service, which means that the betting offices are not subject to the law of 10 November 2006 on opening hours in commerce, crafts and services. The betting offices can therefore in principle be open 24 hours a day. For some neighborhoods and cities, that's certainly a nuisance. In view of the above, I would have liked to ask the Minister the following questions. Do you have a view on the spread of the betting offices in Belgium? Is it true that most people concentrate in cities, as I assume? If so, are you interested in an initiative to counter oversaturation in cities, possibly via a wider perimeter? Can you confirm that it is indeed the intention to reduce the maximum number of betting offices to 600 and to abolish that perimeter? Should that be the intention, can a city or municipality choose to set a perimeter itself? Are they indeed regarded as service providers, so that the law on opening hours does not apply to them?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic145x.u49	Mr Lachaert, it is true that there is a greater concentration of the Belgian betting offices currently authorised in Belgium in the major cities. This is logical given the larger population in the cities and thus the larger number of potential players in the betting offices. In that respect, there is no difference here with other forms of trading activity. For example, there are 34 licensed betting offices in the city of Antwerp and 24 licensed betting offices in the city of Ghent. A complete list of all licensed betting offices per zip code is updated and published on the website www.gamingcommission.be after each meeting of the Gaming Commission. I am aware of the need to channel gambling in Belgium, which may be accompanied by a reduction in the number of permits, in order to limit the maximum number of betting offices. Concrete initiatives have not yet been taken. The abolition of the perimeter of 1 000 metres between betting offices is not directly linked to any reduction in the maximum number of licences. The opportunity of such changes has not yet been considered, as it prevents too large a concentration of betting offices. On 27 May 2015, the Gaming Commission will organise an academic seminar on concessions, agreements and advice, which will be discussed for the first time by governments, experts and representatives of the sector. The Game Act is a federal law, which, together with its implementing decisions, is always signed by the six federal ministers concerned. A delegation of this legislation to local authorities therefore seems difficult to achieve. Local authorities are involved in the decision-making process through concessions, agreements or advice, as is the case for betting offices. In reply to your third question, I can inform you that the Gaming Commission is not competent for the application of the law on opening hours. Article 43/4 of the Law of 7 May 1999 on games of chance, betting, gaming equipment and the protection of players provides that a gaming equipment is intended exclusively for the taking of bets, subject to the exceptions set out therein. Indeed, it can be inferred that taking bets is a service rather than a sale of certain products. Indeed, it is the marketing authorisation holder F1 who organises the bet and the marketing authorisation holder F2 who accepts the bet on behalf of marketing authorisation holder F1, which again indicates a service. A good gaming policy and the corresponding channeling of players to a licensed offer is a permanent balancing exercise, including between the profitability of licence holders and the protection of consumers and players. Within the betting sector, live betting, which is wagering during the games, is becoming an increasingly important market segment. These competitions often take place outside the legal opening hours, so a change to the law on opening hours, to include betting offices, does not seem appropriate.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic145x.u50	I have heard some reassuring things and some a little less reassuring. I understand that you want to investigate it properly, without rushing too fast. You understand that the number of betting offices should not get out of hand, given the inconvenience they may cause. I also refer to your last remark, which is that you do not think it is appropriate to amend the law so that one can be open 24 hours a day. If we take this into account, we must be very careful about the number of bedrooms and their insertion. In cities these betting offices cause quite a bit of nuisance. Let alone abolish the 1000 metre perimeter. I would therefore ask you to take this further into account in your opportunity considerations, which you have also mentioned, and to ensure that there is a fair distribution of these activities across the territory of our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic145x.u51	Minister, on 1 April we read in several regional newspapers the story of a prisoner who was brought to the peace court on foot from the Leuven prison, accompanied by a number of police officers. The prisoner in question turned to the peace court after subpoenaing the Belgian State after a withdrawal of his financial allowance in order to obtain his university degree. The inmate is enrolled in the first year of physics. Unfortunately, this was not an April joke, but rather poignant reality. Similar incidents occurred a few months ago when two murderers and a con man were escorted to the courthouse in the same way. Such modus operandi naturally involves security risks, it is not immediately worthy of the inmate in question and also creates unnecessary unrest among street passers-by. In that regard, I would like to ask you the following questions. Why are the prisoners in Leuven being escorted on foot? What are the causes of this? How many precedents are known to you? Who does the authority lie with and what measures do you intend to take to prevent this from happening again?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic145x.u52	Mr President, Mrs Hufkens, prisoners who are to appear before the Justice of the Peace in Leuven are removed from prison together with the other prisoners. They are then transferred with a cell car from the prison system to the justice palace of Leuven. There they are temporarily locked up in the cell complex of the Palace of Justice. At the request of the peace court, the prisoners will then be transferred to the peace court in a cell car. Due to the numerous inmates who had to be removed from prison for the council chamber on 31 March 2015, no cell car was available at the time of the request for a pre-emption to the peace court. Following an operational evaluation, an adapted guidance dispositive was replaced in order to meet the request for guidance by organising a transfer on foot. The building of the peace court is located at a walking distance of 80 meters from the Palace of Justice. Since January 2013 until today, 14 detainees had to be arraigned before the Leuven Peace Court: three inmates in 2013, seven inmates in 2014 and four inmates in 2015. The method described concerned a minority of these preliminaries. Penitentiary facilities are responsible for the provision of cell cars and drivers. I have instructed the prison system to make the necessary arrangements to make a vehicle with a driver available when a transfer to the court of peace is necessary. The local police are responsible for leading the prisoners to the courts and courts. In the meantime, the police in Leuven have adapted its operational procedure so that there will be no more transfers on foot.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic145x.u53	So, Minister, we are talking about a minority of cases. It will now be resolved by the local police, which is a very good thing. Even if it is a minority of cases, there was some concern among the citizens of Leuven. I'm glad you solved that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic145x.u54	Mr President, Minister, at the meeting of the Committee on the Interior on 1 April we discussed the issue of the pensions of police officers with Minister Jambon. As you know, the police unions demand that the office of police officer be recognised as a heavy occupation so that the retirement age should be 58 years. According to Minister Jambon, we have to answer the questions about whether or not to decide on cataloguing as a heavy occupation without pre-empting certain professions because this may make matters more difficult. In his view, the question should be resolved in the global pension reform debate which is now being launched with the installation of a National Pension Commission. He was right to reply and informed the trade unions accordingly. Also during the nuclear cabinet of 24 March, the government did not respond to the demands of the police unions. The government said from the outset that the recognition as a heavy occupation, prior to a global pension reform, was certainly not possible. There was an age on it, it was impossible at all. To our surprise, we read in your justice plan that a route was being worked out at the moment whereby guards could go on leave prior to retirement on January 1, 2016 at 57 years. With a recognition as a heavy occupation, the start of the VVP should be made at 58 years. The regulations concerning the VVP for the staff of penitentiary institutions are, according to your plan, adapted to the raising of the retirement age and the scheme of individual unemployment with single payment. You write that it is your practice to introduce this gradually and in agreement with the ministers responsible for Pensions, Budget and Civil Service matters. Finally, you also say that the pension law needs to be amended before any trade-union negotiations can be initiated with regard to any transitional measures. Mr Minister, what is the concrete state of play with regard to the route that would have been developed and where guards could still go with VVP at 57 years from 1 January 2016? On what basis do you base the claim that a heavy-duty profession recognition would take the starting date of the VVP to 58 years? How do you reconcile this with the decision of the nuclear cabinet of 24 March? Are the ministers responsible for pensions, civil servants and the budget in agreement with this? What transitional measures did you have in mind for the trade union negotiations?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic145x.u55	Mr President, Mrs Gabriels, as regards your first question, it is true that the Royal Decree of 28 September 2003 establishing a leave prior to retirement in favour of certain officials employed in the external services of the Directorate-General for Penitentiary Institutions, in its current form in Article 2 (2), provides, first, that from 1 January 2016 or later, leave shall begin at the earliest on the first day of the month following that in which the applicant has reached the full age of 57 years. So the route did not have to be worked out anymore, because it is already there. The trajectory was introduced with the pension reforms that began on 1 January 2013. The current government agreement provides in Chapter 8 Staff cases and public enterprises the following: "The age and career conditions for early retirement schemes in the federal public sector, leave prior to retirement, disponibility and others will be aligned on the conditions for individual unemployment with single payment. This will be done through an adaptation of the Staff Regulations. The same government agreement provides that the age conditions for individual unemployment with single payment, known as SWT, are initially increased to 58 years and later to 60 years in the case of heavy-duty occupations. The government agreement also provides that the already foreseen growth path for early retirement age and career conditions is maintained for 2015 and 2016. This growth path represents a shift in the pension age of six months per year. Specifically, this means that the age of 61 years and six months for 2015 and the age of 62 years for 2016. Leave prior to retirement may be taken for a maximum of five years and the staff member concerned must retire at the end of the period. Therefore, the age condition is also 56 years and six months in 2015 and 57 years in 2016. In addition, the government agreement provides that those who fulfil the conditions for early retirement by the end of 2016 retain those conditions regardless of the later actual date of retirement and that the transitional measures of the 2011 pension reform will continue to apply. In order to ensure an alignment of the VVP with the SWT, the starting age of the VVP should in any case be increased to 58 years without leading to a decrease in the discussion on heavy occupation. I would also like to stress that leave prior to the pension is not covered by the pension fund because the persons concerned can only be retired after the leave. I have already discussed this with the Minister for Pensions as he is to propose the amendments to the Royal Decree of 28 September 2003. The draft of the Royal Decree will, of course, also be submitted to the Ministers for the Budget and Civil Service. However, that draft Royal Decree can only be finalized once the adjustments to the Pension Act have been made. As far as the transitional measures are concerned, I cannot anticipate the negotiations with the trade unions. The proposals for transitional measures will be included in the draft royal decree to be approved by the government before negotiations with the trade unions can begin.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic145x.u56	Thank you, Minister, for your clarification. I am also pleased that you yourself say that future purchases are not useful for any profession and make the global debate more difficult.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic145x.u57	Mr President, Minister, in my previous question to you and in the presentation of your Justice Plan, you have shown your willingness to reform the Central Supervisory Board and the Supervisory Boards in order to bring them into line with the OPCAT. You felt that, in the interests of independence, these bodies should be transferred to a separate institute within the Federal Parliament, which will also allow for financial and operational independence. As you mentioned, these reforms, which also contain the right to complain, require a specific organisation and entail additional costs. Finally, you mention the proposal made by the Central Council itself. Minister, we support you in this desire for reform and independence. Nevertheless, I would like to know a little more about your concrete will and the timing. What are your intentions in this case? Can you tell us more? Do you intend to rely entirely on the proposal made by the Central Supervisory Board or do you intend to set up a new institute to carry out this mission? In what time frame will you come with a bill on this important and indispensable topic in order to comply with the requirements of the OPCAT? Finally, have you been able, during the last budgetary conclave, to obtain the necessary resources to reform these institutions?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic145x.u58	Mr President, Mrs Özen, the government agreement refers to the plan to create an independent national human rights mechanism. This file has been prepared in recent months. A first meeting of an intercabinet working group will be held at my office this month again. The aim is to establish an organization that fully meets the so-called "Paris" principles and then receives status A. This also implies real independence in all areas. Strengthening the independence of the Central Prison Supervision Board and the local supervisory commissions should be part of this major project. Implementation therefore requires an integrated approach and the gradual establishment of consultation with all stakeholders. It goes without saying that our country already has many constituent bodies of an independent national human rights mechanism and that the challenge will be to integrate them into a coherent package that will include the missing elements. Some of the building blocks may need to be adjusted more than others. In our approach, however, we want to establish dialogue with existing bodies so that we can take into account their suggestions. The Central Supervisory Board is one of them. In order to put all the chances on our side in order to succeed in pursuing this important step for the protection of human rights in our country, I will wait for the first discussions of the working group before making detailed statements on what, in my view, is the ideal form of one or the other element and on how to put this in place from a budgetary point of view. Nor can we ignore the necessarily inter-federal nature of this exercise, given the division of powers between federal and federal entities. The monitoring of places where people are deprived of their liberty, as provided for in the OPCAT, goes beyond the context of our prisons and internees. By the end of October this year, our country will have to submit a report as part of the Universal Periodic Review of the UN Human Rights Council. The aim is that, by then, significant progress can already be reported in the form of a first political consensus. Given the complexity and above all the need to negotiate and conclude a cooperation agreement which will then have to be approved by the various parliaments, it seems realistic to expect a full operationalization of the independent national human rights mechanism by the end of the legislature. However, this does not prevent faster progress on specific building blocks based on the political consensus that has been reached. In this regard, I am thinking of the Central Prison Supervision Board and the local supervisory boards.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic145x.u59	Minister, as you said, the protection of human rights in our country is a very important issue. The timing is moving forward, as evidenced by the meetings scheduled for this month. Of course, consultation is essential in order to achieve a coherent institution. We need to move forward quickly. We could reach consensus before the end of the legislature, as the protection of human rights is a priority issue for all political groups and federal and federated institutions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic145x.u60	Mr President, Minister, last week we heard from the media that a number of Registrys are closed in Brussels for half a day. Normally they're open all day, but from now on only in the morning. My question is inspired by the determination in my own region, the Arrondissement of Ypres, where the Registry of the Peace Court has also decided to remain open only two mornings a week instead of five mornings a week. Mr Minister, my question is very simple. The Royal Decree of 10 August 2001 determines the days and hours on which the Registrys of our courts and courts should be open. To what extent can there be any deviation from that Royal Decree? Secondly, if one can legally derogate from the provisions of that Royal Decree, on the basis of which article is that? Thirdly, what is your response to this disturbing phenomenon? In the meantime, I have been active for some time and it is still unseen that the Registry is starting to close. According to those who close the Registry, there's a staff problem. However, a reform of the landscape was carried out, leading to greater mobility and cooperation. I would like to hear your comments on the matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic145x.u61	Mr President, Mrs Lahaye-Battheu, Article 157 of the Civil Code provides that the Registrys are open on the days and hours at KB. The Royal Decree of 10 August 2001 determining the days and hours at which the Registrys of the courts and courts are open reflects these hours. As a general rule, the Registrys are open to the public all working days from 08:30 to 12:30 and from 13:30 to 16:00. There are major exceptions to this general rule, including for the Registry of the Poperinge seat of the peace court of the second canton of Ypres, which is open all working days from 08:30 to 12:30. It is, of course, up to the King to amend the aforementioned royal decree and to allow derogations from the generally applicable opening hours. In practice, the Chief Constable may transfer a reasoned request to the FPS Justice for the adaptation of the Royal Decree, after which the Royal Decree may or may not be amended in the light of all the elements of the request. It is true that certain staff shortages sometimes result in a change in opening hours. They do require an adaptation of this royal decree and this will be considered together with the peace court. However, the service provided to the persons entitled under the law is not limited to the opening hours of the Registry, but also benefits from the proper and smooth functioning of the Registry and the efficient use of its staff.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic145x.u62	Thank you, Minister, for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic145x.u63	Debates of the European Parliament 3659 by Mrs Smeyers has been postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic145x.u64	Mr. Secretary, telework is on the elevator. The benefits are therefore known. The employees save time on commuting. On a day like today, telework can be very positive. The daily schedule will be more flexible, the environment will be less burdened. Of course, there are functions for which teleworking is not suitable. Within the judicial order, I believe there are many possibilities where telework can be an option. However, it is said that the judicial order would be one of the worst pupils in the classroom when it comes to the introduction of telework. For magistrates, telework can already be done, they also work at home on a file or a verdict. Mr Minister, my questions concern the degree of integration of teleworking within the judicial system, with registry staff and with other staff of Lady Justitia. Is it true that teleworking is still very low-level? Are you planning initiatives, such as possible information campaigns, to highlight the possibility of telework? What functions do you think telework can be used for or in which areas can it be extended? Do you have any figures on teleworking in the judicial system?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic145x.u65	Mrs Lahaye-Battheu, not only the magistrates of the seat, but also the prosecutors of the prosecution have the possibility of telework, as they all have a laptop to connect to the Justice network for access to the Justice mail system and the Internet sites of the seat and the public prosecutor's office. The manual "Access ICT work environment from home" was updated recently, on 23 January 2015, due to the increase in the number of business applications currently accessible from home. The organisation of the service and the follow-up of the absences at the parquet or court are the responsibility of the chiefs of police. The organisation of telework or homework and the organisation of sessions are therefore the responsibility of the local chief of police. In practice, teleworking appears to be used fairly frequently in various bodies, taking into account the needs of the service and depending on the nature of the function performed. The lack of an electronic file is, of course, an important obstacle to homework. In reply to your question on figures, I can tell you that information is scarce about the use of the possibility of homework within the courts and courts. On the other hand, teleworking within the Public Prosecutor's Office is subject to the availability of figures at the Standing Office for Load Measurement and Organisational Development. Since 1 December 2014, the generalised use of the calendar management application has been imposed by the circular letter No. 21/2014 of the College of Attorneys General. The category "work at home" was explicitly included in that application. This shows that 16% of the members of the Public Prosecutor's Office use the possibility of working at home, although mostly the prosecutors. At the magistrates of the courts and courts, homework has been established for a long time, because the editing of judgments and judgments is easy to do. This is less the case for prosecutors or prosecutors. After all, prosecutors have many daily contacts with police services, various administrations and other actors of justice, such as investigators and juvenile judges. Lawyers, bailiffs, public administrations and legal officers expect the legal staff to be easily accessible, be it for the consultation of files, the issue or deposit of documents or the reception of interested parties. Information campaigns are therefore not on the agenda today, but a sensation of the chiefs of police on the possibilities of telework and the possible positive motivating effects on the workplace.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic145x.u66	Thank you, Minister, for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic145x.u67	Minister, officials of the federal government have the opportunity to pursue an independent secondary profession. Staff of the Court of Justice shall be subject to the incompetences listed in Article 299 of the Code of the Court of First Instance which preclude that possibility. That article states that the members of the courts, courts, courts and tribunals may not, either personally or by an intermediary, conduct any trade, act as an agent or participate in the management, management or supervision of commercial companies or industrial or commercial establishments. The same applies to the exercise of a political mandate at municipal level. Of course, I understand that there are certain inconsistencies which must guarantee independence and impartiality, but is it essential to preserve all the exclusions mentioned above? Would it be possible to examine whether the staff of the judicial order should be allowed to pursue an appeal, whether autonomous or not, or to hold a municipal mandate? If so, can you give some explanation? If not, why not?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic145x.u68	Ms Lahaye-Battheu, Article 299 of the Civil Code, applied to the judicial staff under Article 353ter, states that the judicial staff may not engage in any trade either personally or through intermediaries, acting as the agent, participating in the management, management or supervision of commercial companies or industrial or commercial establishments. Consequently, the empty latto is not allowed for the judicial staff to engage in an independent activity in an auxiliary occupation. The College of Attorney General, questioning this in the context of your question, is very formal. The incompatibility provided for in Article 299 of the Code of Justice is, of course, intended to safeguard the functioning of the Court of Justice against influences which would threaten its independence and to guarantee the separation of powers. This rule should therefore be retained and does not tolerate any change. However, there is no absolute cumulative ban. According to the judgment in cassation, only trade is prohibited, not the purely civil management of own funds, as long as it does not become a trade. Therefore, the doctrine of law allows members of the judicial order to participate in the management of the civil company managing their private heritage, or to perform scientific work, manufacture, exhibit and sell works of art outside the scope of professional activity. It is also noted that no authorisation should be granted. However, the judicial authorities must ensure the compatibility of the additional activity with the function within the judicial order. The syndicates believe that this provision, however recent, is no longer topical in a difficult economic situation. They have repeatedly requested that the provision be amended and that an exception be made for staff at levels C and D. I'll have this examined further within the appropriate organs. As far as your second question is concerned, Article 353b of the Court's Code can already authorise a full-time mandate for levels D, C and B non-griffers and secretaries. Under the legislation in force, staff wishing to take up such a political mandate effectively cannot carry out their duties at the Registry, Office Secretariat or Support Service for the duration of that mandate. I note that the provision leaves little margin for non-full-time political mandates, such as city council member. The Council of State also noted this in its Opinion No. 46961/2 of 7 October 2009. It also does not specify the administrative status of the member of the judicial staff who is no longer in office for the duration of his term of office. This, too, is something I would like to look into. This could lead to a legislative initiative if necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic145x.u69	Thank you, Minister, for your answer and wish you every success in your research on this point.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic145x.u70	Question No 3688 by Mrs Pas, Question No 3714 by Mrs Van Vaerenbergh, Question No 3824 by Mrs Becq and Question No 37 by Mr Bonte have been postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic145x.u71	Mr Minister, my colleague and today neighbour in this committee, Peter Dedecker, has launched a debate during the Easter holidays on the operation and slogans of the National Lottery. My reaction to this was that this would be the ideal time to ask the Gaming Commission not only to view the operation of the National Lottery, but also that of private websites, casinos and so on. A number of years ago, sometimes a person looks back and sees how long he has been here I have asked several times in Parliament questions about gambling websites. At that time, one of the recommendations made by a number of fellow Members and myself was that the National Lottery would also be on the Internet market, because this would allow a check to be carried out. The finding at that time was that suddenly a number of malicious or bona fide websites appeared that did not generate tax revenue. No regulation could be applied to it either. It is therefore a good thing that the National Lottery has entered that market and has an offer. I believe that today the Gaming Commission must check whether the criteria set out at that time have been complied with effectively and whether or not the pendulum has gone too far. I have the following specific questions. What is the view of the Gaming Commission on the current offer of the National Lottery and the other websites? After a number of years, we need to re-examine the substance of the debate, and a thorough evaluation is needed. Are you prepared to instruct the Gaming Commission to carry out that evaluation and explain it in Parliament?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic145x.u72	Mr Geerts, the National Lottery offers games of chance both in the real world and in the online world. The online offer of the National Lottery is twofold. On the one hand, the National Lottery offers traditional trekking and scratching games over the internet, via the website www.e-lotto.be. According to the National Lottery, its online offer of games of chance, with the exception of betting, is covered by the Law of 19 April 2002 rationalising the operation and management of the National Lottery, while the Gaming Commission is responsible for the control and implementation of the Law of 7 May 1999, as amended by the Law of 10 January 2010, on games of chance, betting, gaming facilities and the protection of players. On the other hand, since 2013, the National Lottery has also been offering sports betting on www.e-lotto.be under the name Score. She uses unauthorized related websites that lead players to the website of the National Lottery. These bets do fall within the competence of the KSC and the National Lottery, like private gambling operators, requires a licence from the KSC. Until today, two licences were issued by the Gaming Commission to the National Lottery: a license based on the Gaming Act and a betting license based on the Lottery Act. The online offer of gambling is limited in volume in Belgium. A system of additional permits is used. Without exploitation in the real world, no online gambling can be offered. As the number of gaming facilities in the real world is limited, this restriction is therefore extended for the Internet supply. In Belgium, these maximum numbers are on nine casino leases, seven of which are currently licensed online, 180 of which 33 are currently licensed online and 34+1 betting organisers, 16 of which are currently licensed online. These restrictions are criticised by Europe and by online gaoppers, who believe that no limitation in the number of permits should be imposed and that any company fulfilling the legal conditions should be able to obtain a licence. The system of additional licences for the exploitation of online gambling is also considered restrictive. Since the amendment of the Gaming Act in Belgium, not only the National Lottery but also the private gakoperators have entered the online gambling market legally, there is more advertising for online gambling. As Minister of Justice, I wish to develop deontological rules for authorised operators, including on the framework of advertising for games of chance. Today, the KSC acts as a point of contact to redirect advertising campaigns for games of chance. Appropriate measures have already been imposed, e.g. no advertising for minors, internet programmes on TV only after 22:00, and that's all. Several advertising campaigns have already been adapted, e.g. using the euro instead of the dollar. A casino operator was asked not to use actors/figures less than 21 years of age in an advertising campaign. No alcohol should be shown in the playrooms. However, the KSC operates without a clearly defined framework. Therefore, at the meeting of the CSC on 4 February, it was decided to develop a clear and coherent policy on advertising games of chance. On 20 February 2015, the KSC asked the High Health Council for its opinion on advertising slogans. On 10 April 2015, the KSC received the position of the Supreme Health Council, which, from DSM-V, the official ranking of diseases, equates gambling addiction to alcohol or drug addiction. It therefore recommends banning any advertising of games of chance. On 25 February 2015, the KSC asked the opinion of the panel on ethical practices in advertising, the JEP, followed by a meeting on 17 March 2015, to discuss this evolution in advertising games and their approach. By analogy with the advertising of alcoholic beverages, it was agreed to draw up a covenant in consultation with the various actors such as the aid, the Family Association, the gambling and advertising sectors in order to create broad support. In addition, a royal decree will be drawn up which will contain more binding provisions. An advertising ban is already in force for bingo machines in the cafes. That prohibition is laid down in the Royal Decree of 22 December 2000 on the operation and management of the gaming equipment class III, the procedure for application and the form of the licence class C. Article 3 states that, in respect of games of chance operated, no publicity may be made either inside or outside the establishment. Although bingo players play at the same level of appearance as lottery, excluded players can still play by buying products from the National Lottery. The advertising ban is therefore a more stringent measure here. As you can see, the Gaming Commission develops a comprehensive vision for advertising and, together with the National Lottery, tries to clarify the role of the various actors. I am certainly prepared to ask the Gaming Commission to come and explain its views to Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic145x.u73	Minister, certainly the latter should be organized during the work of your committee. I'm sure I'm prepared to cooperate. It goes without saying that a number of online gambling site providers are likely to disagree with the fact that a deontological code and a covenant will be developed. I think, however, that it would also be expected that this agreement would not be forgiven. Then I think that we should go a step further and also look at, for example, transparency in publishing turnover figures and so on. In the Netherlands, as part of the postcode lottery, a private initiative is required to publish the results so that 50% of the profits are distributed to charities. This is another way of working. However, I think that we should be able to introduce a similar system here in the sense that the figures and turnover are known. This has the effect that there can be given to charities and to the Treasury with tax return.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic145x.u74	Mr. Speaker, Minister, a year ago, our Parliament passed legislation to amend the Family Name Transmission Act in a less discriminatory, much more egalitarian view between the mother and father of the child. As you know, this law, which came into force on June 1, 2014, allows parents today to choose to assign to their child either the name of the father, the name of the mother, or both. We are approaching the target date for parents who already had children, all minors, since they have until June 1, 2015 to decide to change the name of all the siblings. It seems that more and more parents make a clear choice, but there is a certain lack of knowledge of this law, probably due to a lack of information. Minister, could you tell me how many children have been named twice since the Act came into force? What is the proportion of all births over the same period? Can you confirm to us that the municipal administrations systematically take the time to inform the parents of the choice available to them? As we know, in some municipalities, birth registration is carried out directly at motherhood, in particular through medical and social workers of the ONE. Have these persons been sufficiently informed of the new legislation? Do they systematically transmit this information to new parents? When I spoke about this in some Brussels hospitals where there were NEB workers, they were not at all aware of this double-name legislation. So sometimes, when parents ask, they tell them that this is not possible, that it is not included in our legislation. I therefore think that there is a real problem of information for families.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic145x.u75	Mr President, Mrs Lalieux, according to the information provided by the National Register, 29,253 births of children of Belgian nationality were registered between 31 May 2014 and 16 April 2015. Of these, 4,151 children were given a double name on the basis of the new name law, 558 of which began with the mother's name. On 30 May 2014, a circular on the new Law on Name was adopted and published in the Belgian Monitor and transmitted to all registrars in order to explain to them the scope of the provisions which they must apply in the performance of their duties. In addition, opinions were published on 2 and 3 June 2014 on the Justice FPS website, drawing attention to the entry into force of the new law and providing useful information on the various options available to parents. VLAVABBS and GIPE, the associations of Dutch- and French-speaking registrars, have, in collaboration with the Justice FPS, disseminated the information necessary for a good understanding and enforcement of the law through e-mails, websites, information sessions and answers to multiple questions relating to specific cases. Practically, parents are informed of the options offered by the Act of 8 May 2014 when they come to the civil registry office to make the birth declaration, but also in other places such as maternity wards where the method of declaration of choice of name to be signed by both parents is made available to them. Civil registrars were also invited to inform prospective parents of the possibility of choosing the name when presenting themselves for prenatal recognition. VLAVABS also reported that, for the time being, many parents complete the declaration of choice of name by expressly opting for the father's name, which is not necessary under the law of 8 May 2014. As far as the declaration of birth to maternity is concerned, I would remind you, as the circular of 3 November 2008 states, that the declaration of birth to maternity and the declaration of birth must be accompanied by the same guarantees as for the declaration of birth to the communal house, that is, with the same guarantees of authenticity of the act. If this is not the case, the registrar must refrain from making the declaration of birth possible at maternity. This is why social workers working in hospitals are usually the first to be informed by the municipalities of legislative changes.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic145x.u76	Minister, thank you for this detailed answer. As I always say, information is good, but doing it several times is sometimes necessary. For example, there is a constant renewal of staff at the window, so continuous information is important. In the maternity wards, among the social workers, on the francophone side in any case, there are still questions with regard to this law. Little information might be needed in that regard. I'll do it for the city of Brussels. As I remind you every time I ask a question on this subject, you should take an initiative to ensure that there is no longer a father's veto on this issue, that would be much clearer for all families.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic145x.u77	Mr Minister, my question will largely overlap with Mr Geerts' question just now, which supports the debate. Thank you for that. The discussion is a bit older. To keep gambling out of illegality, a number of gambling games were legalized: casinos, gaming rooms and gambling websites. For casinos or playrooms advertising is severely restricted: no lotteries can be organized and no one can be drawn in from the outside. Advertising is very limited in the case of casino debt securities. Online restrictions are much less: the threshold and social control are much lower and the restriction on advertising is also much lower. In your reply to Mr Geerts' question, you said that the number of permits is limited and that this is criticised by Europe. The problem, in my opinion, is not the number of permits for gambling websites, but above all the legalized gambling websites that are allowed to do advertising. This advertising is omnipresent, even with a limited number of players. For example, there are not only billboards in public places and stadiums, for example, something a casino should not do, there are also radio advertisements that encourage online gambling, almost every hour when one adds to the National Lottery. Also on sports stations after each goal you will see the adjusted quotes for the bets. Apparently, that's what a lot of people need to start with. People are starting to push that, and I don't think that's very healthy. That is why I have a few questions for you, Minister. Do you have an insight into the impact of promotional opportunities on gambling behaviour in our society on the basis of scientific or commercial research or by other means? You have already referred to the criticism of the Gaming Commission. That seems to me to be a very well-founded and justified criticism. I take it you don't think it's appropriate that gambling behavior be stimulated in this way? How do you evaluate the current rules in this area and what possibilities do you see for adjustments? You have already started in reply to Mr Geerts' question as regards the views of the Gaming Commission on this matter. What role do you see for the National Lottery which should offer an ethical alternative in this respect, but of course also puts its products on the market with screaming advertising and ubiquitous in the street scene, not only in every newspaper shop around the corner, but also soon with dispensers, with commercials on national television and radio channels and any other medium? How do you see a balance between the advertising rules for private players and the government player? Have you discussed this with your colleague in charge of the National Lottery? From what point of view did this consultation take place and what other initiatives have you already taken in this regard?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic145x.u78	Mr President, Mr Dedecker, the Gaming Commission is working on the creation of a Chair that will provide multidisciplinary scientific support so that social and psychological mechanisms can also be addressed and the impact of promotional opportunities can be investigated. On the very serious problem of minors playing social games, a specific online system to promote and exploit gambling, a psychological analysis of a professor of social and cultural psychology has already been requested. Her findings are serious and interesting. The most important are that players of social gambling with purely virtual prizes do not experience this as a game of chance because often the impression is created that it is a game of skill. The fact that there is no money to be won does not matter. Competing with others, whether simultaneous players or climbing on a ranking list, function as a reward that gives an experience of winning. To get that win, a player can't afford anything but money. The fact that it is about social games encourages players even more to increase their playing opportunities and promote their winning opportunities than to use money. These social games contain a social-psychological mechanism that encourages people to use more and more money. It can be assumed that young people are particularly vulnerable to these phenomena because they often do electronic agility games that share many characteristics with electronic gaming. Social games are important to them because they give them an important opportunity to acquire within a group of equal status and respect. Moreover, electronic platforms are often the only place where young people can get in touch with gaming themselves without any control. Finally, the embedding of games of chance in these platforms makes it difficult for them to distinguish between games of chance and agility, and gives the impression that games of chance are just part of a competition. I will therefore focus on the protection of minors as a priority. At the end of this month a consultation with the Minister for Economic Affairs has already been planned in the context of this particular consumer protection. I shall also submit a dossier to the Minister for the Budget in order to enable the Gaming Commission to further develop this protection. In view of the evolution of the online market, it is logical that advertising should inform the public of the authorised offer. However, advertising should not be aimed at encouraging vulnerable people to gamble. When online gambling was illegal, they played massively without any kind of control. However, the restrictions in the gambling sector must of course be addressed, including in the field of advertising. I therefore support the initiative to work out an advertising protocol together with the JEP and to prepare a royal decision, which can structurally anchor a number of policies on advertising. This should lead to results this year. There are currently too few rules on advertising. A covenant that applies to all online gambling operators must change this. The National Lottery has already submitted marketing plans and the Gaming Commission has communicated its comments. With the exception of the comments on score.be, which have for a long time given the impression that this website is under the supervision of the Game Commission, the National Lottery seems to take account of the comments of the Game Commission. The National Lottery will also be invited to co-support and sign the covenant drawn up with the JEP. I have already consulted with my colleague for the National Lottery on the licensing of bets from the National Lottery. The Gaming Commission has also recently given its opinion on a draft royal decree on the license of bets.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic145x.u79	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your comprehensive answer. I am very curious to see the draft royal decision you are discussing and the initiatives it will contain. You have also answered much more about the online agility games than I thought. I did not specifically ask for it, but it is a very interesting debate that is being opened further. It is indeed about the first step. Apart from that, there is of course the advertising for gambling pur sang, which is the advertising for the online casinos, which also have a physical location and of which Napoleon Games is one of the most known. However, there are so many others. This is not so much about agility but purely about game of chance. The protection of minors is certainly a priority in this respect. However, that protection will not be an obvious matter given the ubiquitousness of that advertising and, as you point out, the stepping-stone practices through these agility practices. However, I am certainly looking forward to the debate that we must continue on this subject. There are still a number of steps to be taken with regard to advertising.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic145x.u80	Minister, in addition to advertising as a specific component, I think it is also important to look at the monitoring of gambling websites in general. As said, those sites today enjoy a smooth regime of advertising and players can gamble from their own home without any kind of social control. That makes it even more dangerous than other forms of gambling. Those licensed gambling websites are under the supervision of the Gaming Commission. I have a few questions about that. First of all, what conditions do gambling websites have to meet today in order to obtain a permit? One of the conditions you have laid down is that there must also be a physical establishment. What additional conditions are there? How do you evaluate these requirements and the threshold for online gambling today? Secondly, to what extent is there regular monitoring of gambling websites that are licensed by the government? What are the elements of control? Is that about fair play, for example? What results did that check produce? Which bottlenecks can be concluded from this? Thirdly, there is a group of excluded players. It is not just about magistrates who are not allowed to enter a casino, but also about people who have asked themselves to be blacklisted, people in debt mediation or people with gambling addiction. That is a group that we must protect as a matter of priority. In practice, however, it seems very easy for them to remain active on the gambling websites. The blocking can easily be bypassed via a DNS-blocker. That is very silly for unauthorized websites, but also for authorised websites it is apparently very simple. This weekend, by the way, those involved in De Tijd indicated that they would still receive invitations and personalized advertising from the licensed operators who should have blocked them. How do you evaluate these current rules and practice? What measures do you want to take to actually keep blocked users blocked? Fourthly, since the 2011 Act, the activities of the Gaming Commission have doubled. However, the active substances have not been followed. How do you evaluate the functioning of the Gaming Commission today? Can it perform its duties properly? If no, what changes do you propose? I do not think that the intention should be to give citizens a false sense of security and to say that these websites are under the supervision of the Gaming Commission, because if this is not the case in practice, we are worse off than when we do nothing. Fifth, gambling remains a social problem. To what extent do you see the Committee's role in raising public awareness and raising awareness? Or do you see that role before other actors? Has there been any consultation with the Länder on this issue? In what way is there inter-federal cooperation in this area? Finally, what further measures do you propose to make the move to online gambling less attractive? We were just talking about advertising, but I don't know if you have any other business in mind.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic145x.u81	Minister, the Games of Chance Commission has been monitoring compliance with the Games of Chance Act since 1999. Its mission has been greatly complicated since the emergence, development and multiplication of new technologies. More than a million Belgians would have their account in order to play online. The control of games of chance offered on the Internet has thus become a central part of the fight against illegal games. Minister, what means does the gambling commission have to detect an illegal online gambling site? Are these means sufficient? When an illegal site is detected, what means are available to the Commission to obstruct or block its activity? How do we explain the low number of illegal sites listed during 2014?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic145x.u82	I apologize in advance for the long answer and the great speed at which I am going to read it. The legal conditions set out in the Game Act must be fulfilled: only license holders A casinos, license holders B games halls and license holders F1 bets may apply for an online license. These requirements are stricter than in other countries where gambling is regulated. Not only is there a limitation in the number of permits... compare the situation with the Netherlands where more than 200 companies have already shown interest in starting an online website................................................................................................................................................ Belgium is unique in the world because of the exclusion of nearly 300 000 people, including those who are voluntarily excluded, exclusion by third parties, people in protection status and people in collective debt regulation. For online gambling, with the exception of the online games offered by the National Lottery, these exclusions also apply. Overall, therefore, there is a regulated, limited offer that succeeds in being somewhat sufficiently attractive, without being a copy of the illegal market, while serious efforts are being made to exclude vulnerable players. As regards the second question, concerning the monitoring of online gambling sites. The Internet is monitored by the Internet group of the Gaming Commission, of which people are also part of the control cells of the Gaming Commission. Illegal websites are regularly added to the blacklist, after an analysis has been made that an offer is being organised in Belgium. Currently, no full-time member of staff is assigned to the follow-up of online gambling. This is a bottleneck that is being worked on. Work will also be carried out on the implementation of draft Royal Decrees on the Internet notified to the European Commission but not yet in force. Those who would facilitate access to illegal gambling are liable to criminal prosecution in the correctional court as co-authors or accomplices. The facilitators include site hosts, access providers, and those who have a role in transmitting advertising money. Therefore, the hosts place a stop page for anyone who wants to connect to the sites listed on the blacklist to avoid criminal prosecution. The administrative act placing the sites on the blacklist has been challenged in vain to date in legal terms. The European Commission challenges the principle of the amended law on 10 January 2010 which, as a condition of obtaining a licence, requires the placing on the territory of the main servers. There are two reasons for the decrease in illegal sites on the blacklist. The first, the most important, for budgetary reasons: two general-purpose judicial police officers had to be made available to their corps because the Commission's personal budget exceeded the forecast of the FPS Justice P&O service, which applied the staff reductions in a linear manner. The control cell was therefore significantly reduced during 2014 despite the fact that the gambling commission is in financial balance. Each year, revenue covers expenditure. The second, which is less important, relates to a procedure introduced against the operation of the blacklist on which the auditor of the Council of State has varied in his opinions. A further legal analysis had to take place. Expert reports have been prepared on this case. The Council of State has not yet made a final decision. Operators are sometimes prosecuted and fined. Sometimes the prosecutor's office closes the case without further action for reasons of opportunity. In this case, the gambling commission shall issue fines, all of which have been paid in accordance with the rights of the defence. A number of cases remain on which the Prosecutor's Office has not yet ruled. The third question concerns the protection of players and excluded players. Currently, the connection with the National Register is being finalised, which has to make it even less easy to gamble with a false identity on licensed gambling websites. Too easy access to illegal websites is a European problem, which should be supported by Member States. After all, the impression remains that a licence from Malta, Alderney and Gibraltar is a European licence to offer online gambling. The Gaming Commission makes an active contribution to this discussion in various fora, such as the European Commission's expert group, contributions to conferences and articles. Advertising is the subject of a protocol in conjunction with the JEP and an additional royal decree which should allow the mandatory application of certain rules. In addition, better monitoring of both the legal and illegal markets is being developed. In reply to the fourth question on the means of operation of the Gaming Commission, I note that the Gaming Commission is showing the necessary enthusiasm to row with the belts it has. There is contact with the Minister for the Budget to ensure that the Gaming Commission can use its operating budget. The structure of the Gaming Commission must be strengthened so that it can properly control the gambling market. Within the gambling commission, there is a cell composed of police officers with general competence and officials responsible for administrative missions who, in addition to their administrative duties, have been appointed as a judicial police officer with limited competence to play games of chance. These officers shall draw up a record of findings which shall be valid until proven to the contrary. This report shall be submitted to the Public Prosecutor's Office. On this basis, the Commission places the illegal operator on the blacklist. The means are reduced both in terms of staff and in technical terms, especially in terms of information technology, because a reporting of the sector is necessary in order to obtain a better perception of the phenomenon of online gambling. Strengthening staff, particularly with computer and technical training, is essential, even if only to cope with the latest hacking from China, Iraq or North Korea. The publication of royal decrees on internet gambling is planned this year. The fifth question was whether an information campaign could be developed on the awareness of gambling and the attraction of online gambling if the necessary budgets were released. In its policy statement on 15 January, the Gaming Commission indicated that it wanted to make more work on cooperation with the Regions and local authorities. A first start is the seminar organised on 27 May which addresses all gambling actors and which is aimed at local authorities. More information about this day of study can be found on the website of the Gaming Commission. All municipalities should have been notified of this. The policy intentions of the Game Commission formulated following the 15th anniversary of the Game Commission mentioned a structural consultation with the Regions in order to put the tax issue in the right context. It will be a challenge to scale the tax issue into a more comprehensive gaming policy. If it is provided with the necessary resources, the KSC will be able to continue to do so. Designs of royal decrees will soon be published so that more work is done on containment in the online gambling market. If the Gambling Commission can use its annual resources, I will also ask for initiatives to limit online gambling. This could be accompanied by a rationalisation of the gamblers in the real world, which is still sufficiently channeled there.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic145x.u83	Thank you, Minister. I would almost regret that fast-moving is not an Olympic discipline. Otherwise, we would have guaranteed someone with a medal here. I look forward to the written version of your reply, which I will certainly look at with great attention. I would like to make a comment. You say that control is quite limited at the moment. There will be a check on illegal activities that will then be blacklisted. Of course, that blacklist is very easy to get around. However, my question was specifically about the supervision of those who have been granted a licence. I'd like to get a quote from Peter Naessens from the Gaming Commission. He says that the rules are already more flexible for gambling websites and that checks are virtually non-existent. I quote: "After they've got their license, we haven't checked a single operator yet." That is something that I do not think we can allow. I believe that we need to look seriously at this and make sure that the committee can do its job or that we have to look at the committee's task in any way. I am also looking forward to the possibility of initiatives in terms of detachment campaigns for gambling and your announced royal decisions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic145x.u84	Thank you, Minister, for your long and quick response. I'll take the time to read it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic145x.u85	Minister, I would like to hear your opinion on the concept of serious tax fraud. As you know, that concept has been introduced into the tax codes under the previous government, of which you were also a member. That introduction also meant that it was accompanied by a penalty increase. The concept of serious tax fraud was also included in the preventive money laundering legislation. This means that the so-called reporting agents must report this to the CFI if there is a suspicion of serious tax fraud and that the CFI may report it to the public after an investigation. With this definition and increase in penalties, the previous government has implemented an important recommendation from the parliamentary committee of inquiry into the major tax fraud cases. Now the Constitutional Court brought actions for annulment against both legislative amendments. In short, the argument put forward by the petitioners is that the notion of serious tax fraud was not clear enough. The current government has anticipated in the government agreement the court's ruling to be followed by stating in the government agreement that the scope of the concept of serious tax fraud is clarified in the Money Laundering Act. The Constitutional Court has recently dismissed the actions for annulment by two judgments of 5 February 2015 and 26 March 2015. The Court gave its ruling on the substance of the case and held, inter alia, that the contested provisions allowed the perpetrators of tax fraud to be sufficiently informed of the criminal consequences of his conduct. Recently, I read an interview with Jean-Claude Delepiere, Chairman of the Financial Information Processing Cell (CFI) who said with some pride that the anti-money laundering cell passed 84 files of serious tax fraud on to the prosecutors in 2014, amounting to 345 million euros. Compared to the year 2013, it represents an increase of more than 50%. Minister, I would like to hear whether you agree with the statement that, given the ruling of the Constitutional Court, it is not necessary at the moment to change or clarify the concept of serious tax fraud. The court clearly said that the concept itself was clear enough.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic145x.u86	Mr Minister, the concept of serious tax fraud, organized or not, was the subject of a whole debate in plenary in 2013, both in the Criminal Code, the Tax Codes, the Company Code and in the preventive money laundering legislation. The concept replaced the earlier terminology of serious and organised tax fraud using particularly complex mechanisms or practices of international scale. It has therefore become a short term, which has replaced a very long and detailed concept. The sector has immediately criticised and said that the new concept is vague. Therefore, applications for the destruction of the new notion were also submitted to the Constitutional Court. A first action was brought with a view to the annulment of the offence of serious tax fraud in the tax codes. A further appeal by the Order of Flemish Balies and Febelfin against the concept of anti-money laundering legislation and repressive money laundering legislation followed. The government agreement states that the concept of serious tax fraud would be clarified in the Money Laundering Act. In the meantime, the Constitutional Court has already ruled on the two actions brought against the notion. The Constitutional Court acknowledged this, however, I think it is important that the word "serious' introduce an element of unforeseeableness into criminal law. We know that everything in criminal law must be very clear and clear. The court ruled, however, that this is not a question of unconstitutionality, because it is a question of an increased sentence. If it were just a criminal offence, it would of course have been a different story. The judges will therefore now determine the level of punishment in relation to the seriousness of the crime. In the second and most recent judgment, the Court stated that the legislator wished to bring into line the concepts used in tax laws and in preventive money laundering legislation. That was the idea, while a judge has a margin of discretion in determining the penalty. This means that the court can assess it, but all the obliged persons are expected to be thousands of persons on the basis of financial transactions to decide whether they are dealing with ordinary or serious tax fraud. Those aren't judges, but they have to do the reports and take the test. That's a very difficult assessment. What happens then? They see uncertainty as forcing them to report as much as possible in order to ultimately limit their liability afterwards. In the first instance, the CFI, but later on the parquet, can therefore expect additional files. A hearing took place in the Finance Committee on 13 March. A journalist said that about 56% of the money-laundering files handed over by the CFI to the public prosecutor were dropped. That is quite a lot and could give the wrong impression, Minister, that we are not taking it seriously and therefore dismissing it. In fact, the dismissal takes place, because too often it is reported out of caution, because those who are obliged to do so do not want to be held liable and because it is a very vague concept to assess. There will soon be another report from the GAFI, but I would have liked to ask you a number of questions in the meantime. What policy do the public prosecutors have when they decide whether or not to dismiss money laundering files? Is it desirable for further files to be drawn up by the CFI and passed on to the parquets, given the number of sequestrations? Can you confirm that the parquet indeed dismisses 56% of the files it receives from the CFI? Do you think that the policy should focus on many reports, or perhaps otherwise, on qualitative reports, which are effectively prosecuted?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic145x.u87	Mr Vanvelthoven, Mrs De Wit, both the Council of State and the Constitutional Court have considered that the concept of serious tax fraud in the money laundering law is sufficiently clear. It follows from their judgments that the principle of criminal legality is not infringed and that a change of law is not strictly legally necessary. In the parliamentary preparation of the Programme Act of 27 April 2007, which introduced the former concept of fraud, the concept was already seriously defined as the production and/or use of false documents as well as the large amount of the operation and the abnormal nature of this amount in view of the client's activities and own funds. This gave the legislator clear and objective criteria to the judge to assess the seriousness. Non-organised tax fraud can therefore also be serious. In addition, the Constitutional Court stated in its judgment of 5 January 2015 that, despite a wide discretion, the law does not confer on the court autonomous jurisdiction in criminal matters which would infringe the powers of the legislator. The legislator can therefore, without violating the principle of legality, instruct the court to assess the degree of seriousness of the criminal conduct from which there is an increase in criminal penalties. In addition, in the recent judgment of 26 March 2015, the Court held that any tax fraud and, in the event of an extension, any behaviour punishable by criminal law shows a degree of seriousness. That does not change, the court considers, that criminal conduct may show certain degrees for which the legislator may provide for proportionate penalties. The distinction between undefined tax fraud, which is punishable, inter alia, by Article 449, paragraph 1, paragraph 2b, and serious tax fraud, organised or not, which is more severely penalised in paragraph 2 must also be recognised. Secondly, on the prosecution policy of the money laundering prosecutors, it is true that there is no general directive on money laundering at national level. However, the Directive is in preparation and will aim to set clear priorities for prosecution. This will take into account the limited resources and capacities of the public prosecutors, courts and courts. The lack of the general directive does not, of course, mean that the various prosecutors of the King and attorney general would not pursue a criminal policy on money laundering, on the contrary. The Attorney General of Brussels has given me a detailed overview of policy practices in the various areas of activity, stating that the working methods and criteria used to decide on further investigation and prosecution do not fundamentally differ between the various areas of activity. You will understand that, within the scope of an oral question, it is impossible for me to go into all the details of the policy of persecution in the various areas of activity, and so I shall confine myself to a few cautious observations. Firstly, in almost all areas of activity, criminal law policy is based on criteria consistent with a realistic practice of prosecution. In some cases, the Attorney General himself has already issued a directive which explicitly lists the criteria to be used, whether cumulative or not, for example in Brussels and Liège. Some of these criteria include the possibility of effectively confiscating a sum of money laundering, the nature of the underlying crime, the capacity for judicial investigation and the amount of money laundered. The legal background of the suspected natural or legal person is also often taken into account. Secondly, the practice of prosecution differs according to the specific nature of the resort and the nature of the files that are being launched. For example, the Halle-Vilvoorde court responsible for Brussels airport will only dismiss national money-laundering files when the suspects in whom a suspicious sum of money is found can prove the legal origin. Thirdly, there are good practices in various parquets. For example, in different areas of activity, close cooperation with the FGP for the settlement of the money-laundering files is carried out, with the information provided being evaluated against other available police information. In Leuven, the federal police are even working on an effective and structured fraud detection system. Fourthly, specifically with regard to the reports of suspicious transactions originating from the CFI, it is indicated that they are almost always followed by a further investigation in almost all of the resorts. However, if the investigation reveals that there is insufficient evidence of a crime or that there are no more herds in Belgium, it will normally be dismissed, without prejudice to the notification to foreign governments or, in the event of simple tax fraud, the notification to the tax authority, whether or not due to an una-via consultation. Whether it is desirable for the CFI to submit further files to the public prosecutors is not, in my view, the essence. The cases in which criminal proceedings may be involved and in which serious suspicious money transactions are identified must clearly be transmitted to the prosecutors, but it is desirable to focus on the quality of the cases reported, rather than on the quantity of the limited capacity available to deal with criminal proceedings at the prosecutors' offices, courts and courts in order to focus best on the serious money laundering cases. I have figures from the statistical analysts of the College of Attorney General for the years 2005 to 2012. However, these figures fluctuate quite a bit, because the number of cases still pending and in which no decision to prosecute or dismiss has yet been taken must be taken into account. For all these years together, the number of files in which no decision has been taken is 18.28 %, the number of files prosecuted, 39.43 % and the number of files dropped, 41.31 %. The statistical analysts note in their analysis that the final effective prosecution rate in money laundering files is moving towards 50% and thus higher than the general prosecution average in correcting cases. As I have said, the data must always be interpreted with caution.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic145x.u88	Thank you, Minister, for your clear answer. You therefore support the findings of both the Council of State and the Constitutional Court, in particular that the concept of serious tax fraud is indeed sufficiently clear. I understand that you believe that there is therefore no need for a legislative amendment.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic145x.u89	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Some parts I'll reread at a slower pace. I understand that people do not see any problems. This has to do with the principle of legality and criminalisation in itself with regard to the concept of serious tax fraud. However, there is still an emphasis on the aspect of unforeseenness. You gave one of the criteria, namely how the amount relates to the total capital of the person concerned. A person with a capital of around EUR 1 000 will commit serious tax fraud at a rate of EUR 400 more quickly. These amounts are very close together. For someone with a total of EUR 100 000, this ratio is no longer serious. I'm still worried about that. I am not the Council of State and the Constitutional Court, so who am I to have any further questions, but I think it will not always be a simple matter for the judges who have to judge it. I am absolutely right when you say that it is about quality and not just about the quantity of reports. However, we have still not solved the problem of the obliged, who have to judge what is serious or what is less serious. Perhaps many cases that are not serious tax fraud are being investigated, yet they require costly resources from the public prosecutor and investigators. That's my concern. As long as the qualitative reports and the serious cases can be dealt with, there is no problem. Let me read your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic145x.u90	Question No 3771 by Mrs Thoron was withdrawn. Question No 3793 by Mr Kir is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic145x.u91	Your justice plan, Minister, encourages the use of alternative dispute resolution methods, including mediation. You stress that these methods could not only reduce the burden on the courts, but also promote the parties' support for the solution. I also believe that the duality of a trial is not the solution that should always prevail, since mediation can be the appropriate alternative. In fact, my group has always advocated it, where possible and desirable, that alternative dispute resolution should be given real priority. However, I support its use only if it is proposed taking into account the substance of each case, the interests involved and is not justified on purely economic grounds. I do not see this alternative method of conflict resolution as the facilitator of justice. Some disputes require the intervention of a judge. In these cases, the alternative nature of mediation takes on its full meaning and the citizen must not feel that it is no longer an option but the only one, even if that would relieve justice. In other words, agreement mediation, but provided that the claims of the parties require the intervention of the impartial and independent judge, they do not feel directed towards mediation. It must remain the alternative desired by the parties in the interest of good justice. In doing so, citizens must be informed of this possibility - and of its ins and outs - but they must not identify mediation as the systematically advocated solution, for the sake of speed. The full information disseminated should still be standardized and, upstream, financial resources should enable it to be used effectively. Minister, has a budget been made available to allow for more frequent and standardized use of mediation? Is mediation accessible to all citizens, regardless of the financial means at their disposal? What costs does it involve? How will the litigants be informed of this alternative and of what it can bring to them in the face of the rights they consider to be aggrieved?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic145x.u92	Madam, in response to an oral question from one of your colleagues, I have already been able to reply that the law of 30 July 2013 establishing a family and youth court devoted several of its provisions to alternative dispute resolution, including mediation. The Amicable Settlement Chambers have been established and the Registrars must provide detailed information on mediation to the parties. I also added that it was still too early to draw conclusions and assess the success of this new legislation, which only came into force on 1 September 2014. I concluded my speech by saying: "I am currently looking at new initiatives that could be taken to promote mediation. I will continue my contacts with various bodies active in this area, including the Federal Mediation Commission. Where appropriate, budgets could, depending on the possibilities, be devoted to these initiatives, which would then be in addition to the budget of the Federal Mediation Commission." As for your second question, it should be recalled that according to article 1731 of the Judicial Code, the costs and fees of mediation are borne by the parties in equal shares unless they decide otherwise. The mediator is a professional who does not work free of charge and who logically asks for remuneration for the services he is required to render. It is at a time when the parties define the way in which mediation is organised and the length of the process (protocol and mediation) that the methods of fixing all the mediator's fees and the manner in which they are paid are discussed. The costs of mediation vary greatly. They depend on the length of the mediation process, the services provided, the number of parties, etc. According to the information published on the website of the Federal Mediation Commission, the fees paid to the mediator vary between free of charge and 150 euros per hour of mediation interview, in addition to the costs of file and mail. However, if some citizens do not have sufficient financial resources, they can obtain legal assistance under certain conditions. Article 665 of the Judicial Code provides that legal aid is applicable to voluntary or judicial mediation proceedings conducted by a mediator approved by the Commission referred to in article 1727. Legal aid allows those who do not have the necessary income to pay the costs of a procedure, which are therefore covered by the State budget. Articles 667 et seq. of the Judicial Code lay down the conditions for the granting of legal aid and the procedure to be followed in order to obtain legal aid. A person who wishes to receive legal aid must, in the context of voluntary mediation, submit his or her application to the legal aid offices, which will examine the merits of the application. In the event of a judicial mediation, the request for legal assistance may be requested at the same time as the request for mediation before the judge hearing the dispute or later by application to the judge who ordered the mediation. It should be stressed that the Ombudsman must be approved by the Federal Mediation Commission. It should be recalled that mediations can also be covered by the legal protection insurance. Finally, as far as your third question is concerned, it is essential to give good information to the litigants, who most often do not know that there are alternatives to legal action or wrongly think that they do not offer the same degree of security. Recently, as I have already said, a step in this direction has already been taken with the law of 30 July 2013 establishing a family and youth court, which requires the clerk to inform the parties on alternative methods of dispute resolution, including mediation. The Registrar shall send the text of the legal provisions in this field, the list of approved family mediators established in the judicial district, as well as information on information sessions, permanences or other initiatives organized in the judicial district, in order to promote the amicable resolution of disputes, as well as an information brochure on mediation. In the case of divorces for irremediable disunity, the judge may order that the proceedings be overtaken for a period not exceeding one month, so that the parties can obtain information on mediation. More generally, the FPS Justice website and the Federal Mediation Commission contain detailed information on mediation to which the citizen can refer. One should also mention front-line legal aid, which can direct citizens towards alternative ways of resolving conflicts. It goes without saying that, in the process of promoting these alternative modes, in particular mediation, we will continue to pursue contacts with various bodies active in the area of alternative dispute resolution, including the Federal Mediation Commission.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic145x.u93	Minister, thank you. In fact, I am frankly impressed by your quick reading of the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic145x.u94	That's because I have to take the train, Mrs Özen.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic145x.u95	I know that. That's why I'll reply as soon as possible. I'll analyze your detailed answer. Of course, we should get a numerical evaluation to have all the elements.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic145x.u96	About ten days ago, the press relayed the following information: Leuze's new prison is half empty! This prison, with a capacity of 312 prisoners, currently has only 150 prisoners. This situation is not admissible, mainly for the following reasons. Firstly, very paradoxically, the other Belgian prisons still suffer from overcrowding with the problems of condition and management of detention that this entails and the impact on the indispensable work of reintegration. You recently recalled making the fight against this overpopulation one of your priorities. Secondly, the construction of this prison is the result of a public-private partnership, which obliges the federal State to pay compensation to its private partner, an obligation which the State seems to be carrying out in full for an occupation which, alas, is only half its capacity. There is a need to fear the taxpayer's justified feeling, which is blurred by this state of affairs. If one can think that the empty wings of the Leuze prison do not call for any additional staff, I wonder more about a reverse causal link: the impossibility of recruiting prison officers could be the cause of the partial occupation of this new prison. Mr Minister, what can be attributed to the maximum inoccupation of this prison, when the problem of prison overcrowding remains complete in Belgium? Could you assure us that this situation does not stem from budgetary measures relegating the problem of prison overcrowding to a lesser position? Can we really adequately limit ourselves to the transfer of staff from other prisons? On what basis do you believe that staff in other places of detention would be surplus? How soon can we expect this prison to function at full speed? What means are being used to achieve this? Is staff recruitment planned?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic145x.u97	Mrs Özen, it is true that the prison in Leuze-en-Hainaut currently accommodates only half of the detainees originally planned. There are several reasons for this, including the fact that the opening of a new prison almost always takes place in phases. The same type of procedure can be seen for the Ghent CVT, for example, which is gradually being completed. Budget constraints and the blocking of recruitment are indeed an additional factor. You are aware that these decisions also taken by the previous government also affect the prison environment, which is why working groups, cabinets, administrations and trade union organizations are looking at how to streamline work at national level. The third phase of the opening of the prison in Leuze-en-Hainaut is scheduled for May. In a few days, the third wing offering 75 places will be put into service, with inmate transfers already planned in part. This has been possible thanks to the release of a whole series of changes to the new prison. The aim is to open the fourth and final wing by the end of the year.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic145x.u98	Mr Minister, thank you for your answer, but you will also understand that in the current state of overcrowding of prisons in Belgium, it is really a situation that is not admissible even if it takes time to transfer prisoners. Maybe it's the dropper, but we really need to fix this situation as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic145x.u99	Mr. Chair, Mr.Minister, recalling the scope of the expanded criminal transaction through the April 2011 Statement of Reasons, I had already expressed concern about its use. In fact, according to this paper, it focused on complex tax cases for which the statute of limitations is often acquired, due to the limited number of staff. At that time (2012-2013), a certain press showed a dichotomy between the use of the criminal transaction in the north and south of the country. It seemed that in the North, extensive use of it could extinguish public action for acts of violence or even the sale of drugs. No precise statistics could reassure me by invalidating the contents of this press, only the requirement of article 216bis, paragraph 1, of the Code of Criminal Investigation, marking the use of the criminal transaction, had been recalled. We can read today, "the transaction is working well (...) 7,363 transactions closed cases handled by the Belgian public prosecutor's offices", but still "161 days to close a transaction against 443 to complete a classic case". Although interesting figures, what they translate remains vague. Also, because of a lack of police capacity, 6,801 cases were closed in 2014 is probably an argument supporting the use of the criminal transaction. In particular, it would make it possible to close cases, with less impunity. Nevertheless, the criminal transaction divides, perverse effects are associated with it. The press questions whether this is a "rich justice for white-collar criminals". The idea of a two-speed justice scares me, a fortiori so profiting only to the favored, it was used regardless of the nature of the offence committed, as long as it brought money back to the Treasury. The use of the extended criminal transaction is therefore discussed and even questionable. And, very clearly, the acceleration of a judicial system limiting to the exception the exceeding of the principle of reasonable time in matters of property, does not convince me of its fair use or, moreover, in the terms of the law. Minister, are the figures in the press correct? Have official statistics been compiled? Among the cases closed by the use of the criminal transaction, what type of offence were they? If among these files, non-tax files were closed by criminal transaction, what type of file were they? How do you respond to those who see justice inaccessible to the most deprived and, in the current state of affairs, in particular a means of "providing" a blank criminal record? What arguments do you bring to those who no longer believe that "Belgians are equal before the law"? Will the amounts paid since the expansion of the criminal transaction be published? Finally, do you guarantee that the extended criminal transaction does not substitute for the duty to say the law by taking into account the facts and the parties to the cause - which remains the role of justice - and does not consist of a "rigid tariff" of misdemeanours?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic145x.u100	Mrs Özen, the figures to which you refer concern the statistics of prosecutors' offices for the year 2014, which were recently presented by the Public Prosecutor's Office. You can find the press release in which these statistics are presented on the public prosecutor's website. The statistical tables are available at the address you can read in the answer I will give you. The data on the basis of these statistics are recorded in the Eurea/Tpi computer system for the cases necessary to correctly interpret the statistical data. In an article published on 3 April in L'Avenir, the Attorney General of Liège expressed himself positively on the development of criminal transactions and mediations. These are on the rise, with a significant increase in the number of cases closed by payment of a transaction (10% more than in 2009) or the outcome of criminal mediation (19 per cent more than in 2009). Within the limited time allowed for this oral question, it is not possible to request a detailed overview of the nature of the records of offences for which a transaction or mediation has been concluded. I do not share your view that the possibility of concluding a criminal transaction or mediation with the Public Prosecutor's Office, both of which lead to the termination of public proceedings, would give rise to a form of class justice. Such forms of extra-judicial transactional settlement exist in virtually all of our neighbouring countries and form the logical extension in our legal system of the possibility for the Public Prosecutor's Office to assess the advisability of prosecutions. In assessing the appropriateness of the proceedings and determining the correct amount of money to be proposed, the Public Prosecutor's Office often also takes into account the suspect's financial situation, as far as it is known, as well as the seriousness and nature of the facts, the reparation of the damage caused, the sine qua non condition for the transaction, the criminal record, etc. In essence, the criticism of the author's insolvency applies to all the pecuniary penalties imposed and thus also to the criminal fines imposed by the judge. In our legal system, the legislator has given the judges of the Public Prosecutor's Office and of the seat the necessary margin to assess the sentence and the rate of sentence to be sought or imposed. Fair treatment is not in contradiction with this discretionary and humane assessment. In fact, I have made it clear in my Justice Plan that I wanted to focus more on diversification both in the out-of-court penal regulation and in the nature of the sanction. Specifically with regard to the application of the extended transaction, I refer to the press release of the College of Attorneys General following the first assessment of the matter. No distinction with the ordinary transaction is made in the annual statistics that have recently been published. With regard to the registration in the criminal record of the extended transactions concluded, I believe that the criminal record must record this information in the future in order for the magistrates of the Public Prosecutor's Office at least to be informed of the entire history. This, however, requires a number of legislative amendments; for example, in order to determine the time period during which certain data are to be retained, it must be possible to consult and record procedures, as well as a number of adaptations to central criminal record databases. In the meantime, new guidelines for the registration in the REA/ITI of extended transactions concluded have been drafted and have entered into force through COL 23/2014 and its annex. This is the result of the work of a working group established within the College of Attorneys General on the occasion of the evaluation. Finally, I can communicate to you that I will consult with the College on the follow-up it intends to give to the conclusions and recommendations made in the first evaluation of the extended transaction.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic145x.u101	Minister, thank you. Of course, I do not question the fact that a criminal transaction is reached when it is the outcome of a mediation. In any case, you did not answer my question. Is this limited to certain purely fiscal offences? Or are there others? It's not the same thing. I'll analyze your answer. I'll go to the websites to get an idea and come back to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic145x.u102	Question No 3808 is postponed until next week.
