ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-07-54-plenair-ip044x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-07-54-plenair-ip044x.u2	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the development of e-commerce in Belgium is currently in an exponential phase, as is the case throughout Europe. For information purposes, 61% of the Belgian population has already made an online purchase with an average monthly expenditure of 161 euros per capita, with a high rate of satisfaction for users of this mechanism. Unfortunately, 42 per cent of the expenditure is outside our country. Just a quarter of the websites are based in Belgium. This represents almost 2.5 billion in terms of taxes levied by Belgium and 8 000 jobs are located outside our borders. There are several reasons for the low presence of enterprises in the e-commerce sector, mainly because the regulation of night work is quite rigid in our country. Indeed, from 8 p.m. onward, it is difficult to implement this, whereas in the Netherlands, France and Germany nighttime hours are much more flexible. Minister, customers want a J+1 delivery. They order between 5:00 p.m. and midnight and hope to receive their package the next day. Often, when ordering abroad, they receive their parcels more quickly than by commanding them in Belgium, because the workers cannot take the night. It's quite paradoxical. Minister, you have recently met with the social partners. What have been the avenues developed with the social partners to solve this problem? What do you intend to do to repatriate this important economic activity to our country?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-07-54-plenair-ip044x.u3	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Clarinval, you are right, e-commerce is flourishing in Belgium. It is for this reason that my fellow Members, Messrs. Alexander De Croo and Willy Borsus organized a platform to stimulate e-commerce in Belgium. You are also right about the fact that problems need to be solved. One of these problems is night work. I organised a round table to discuss it and find a solution with the social partners. This meeting took place on Tuesday. We met with trade unions and other organizations in the distribution and logistics sector. I'm very positive. All the social partners agreed on the importance of e-business in creating employment. They want to find appropriate solutions, particularly in the e-commerce sector and in night work. We have found that we need to look at other technical solutions. We planned another round table in June to discuss the organisation of night work with the social partners, particularly in the e-commerce sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-07-54-plenair-ip044x.u4	Mr President, Minister, I am very pleased to hear that the social partners are open to reflection on the subject. It is not only about the future in economic and social terms, but also in terms of our state's revenue. I look forward to your insight so that an agreement with the social partners can be reached quickly and a pact can be signed with a view to repatriating this fundamental activity for development in Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-07-54-plenair-ip044x.u5	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, according to the press, tomorrow you will be looking at a preliminary draft which could lead to the privatization of Proximus and bpost. It must be clear: going below the 50% threshold of shares held by the state is a politically correct language to hide your will to sell these two companies. For the Socialist Group, this is an aberration because these companies derive their strength, in particular, from the presence of a majority and stable public shareholder, who defends the general interest and forces investments and long-term strategic orientations. Do I have to remind you that these two companies are leaders in their sector? Mr President, we have recently received Mrs Leroy and our former colleague, Mr Leroy. From Clerck, right here. They argued and demonstrated that ownership should not be affected. Minister, privatizing is a strictly ideological choice that aims to increase the profits of shareholders. Privatizing public enterprises means making them seek profit at all costs. My group is concerned about the employment in these enterprises and about the quality of services offered to citizens and their accessibility to all. There is also a risk that the salaries of the leaders will fly again. The Prime Minister had opposed it here in November, in the case of Proximus in particular. This privatisation may also lead to the departure abroad of the decision-making centre of this strategic enterprise. Minister, why do you want to privatize these two large public companies? What are the short-, medium- and long-term economic arguments that your government can make to parliament in favour of privatization? What are also the short-, medium- and long-term industrial arguments that you can put forward here in Parliament in favour of this privatisation? Is it a fiscal incentive inspired by a policy of nose on the handlebars that drives you to deprive yourself of substantial annual dividends? Finally, do you have any certainty that privatization will not result in loss of staff, the departure of decision-making centres abroad in cutting-edge sectors, technological development and access to this technology? Is this your conception of Belgium?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-07-54-plenair-ip044x.u6	Mr President, Minister, we have heard about this project of continuing the privatization of bpost and Proximus. The list of privatizations or strategic consolidations, according to the name given to them, is long in Belgium. The CGER in 1993, the SNI in 1994, Belgacom in 1995, the Sabena in 1995, the SNCI in 1995, etc. I am not going to draw up this whole long list here or I am going to exhaust all my speaking time. What are the winners of these privatization operations? To know this, we must read not Solidaire, the newspaper of the PTB, but the newspaper De Tijd, which at the time of La Poste's stock market entry said that the only one to find his interest in La Poste's stock market entry was CVC, the private shareholder of bpost. Indeed, bpost dividends increased from €42 million in 2006 to €390 million in 2011. Who paid this dividend increase? The losers of this privatisation operation! There are three categories of losers. There's the staff. To take the example of La Poste, they have increased from 35,000 to 28,000 in five years. There are also users. Only one figure: the number of post offices has increased from 1,300 to 700. The third loser is the State. The best example is the CGER, which for a hundred and thirty years worked smoothly as a public bank. It took only ten years of privatization under the Fortis brand to sink, to be on the brink of bankruptcy and to force the state to become heavily indebted to help it. The PTB has clearly always been against privatization, regardless of the government that leads them. Before conducting this privatisation, do you commit to conducting an impact study on all privatisations that have taken place so far to know the real cost, including hidden costs, to the population, as well as in terms of job losses and salaries for staff?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-07-54-plenair-ip044x.u7	Deputy Prime Minister, according to an article in L'Echo, this Friday the Council of Ministers will consider an amendment to the Act of 21 March 1991 reforming certain public undertakings in order to allow the State to dispose of its participation in Proximus and bpost. It appears that the purpose of this amendment is to remove the provisions that prevent the sale of the State's shares in these undertakings. This will repeal the rule prohibiting the government from reducing its shareholding below the 50% capital threshold plus one share. If the government decided to sell its shares in Proximus, the transaction would earn six billion euros, while the privatization of bpost would generate nearly two and a half billion euros. My questions are as follows, minister. Is a project really in preparation? If so, will it be discussed tomorrow in the Council of Ministers? What exactly does this text contain? Is a privatisation of Proximus and bpost on the agenda? Is there an identical strategy for these two companies that are very different? What will be the budgetary impact of selling these assets? Will the reduction in dividends be met by the reduction in the burden of interest on the debt? Has an impact assessment in terms of employment and staff status been carried out? Finally, what will be the impact of this possible privatization?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-07-54-plenair-ip044x.u8	Mr President, Minister, do you not think that EUR 155 million net for your budget is more important or can this be found in the budget negotiations? The proposal put forward by Minister De Croo costs 155 million euros. Today, Proximus' shares yield EUR 400 million net dividend per year. If the sale of those shares reduces public debt by 8 billion euros, the calculation was made very quickly with an interest rate of 0.62 %. I'll give you the calculation later. You have an economic education. Then I do not understand why, on the basis of probably a wet liberal dream to proceed to blind liberalisation and privatisation of those state-owned companies, you are not using the calculator you should have been an economist. Other colleagues have already said this, and I am looking at the CD&V colleagues in this regard. Also the chairman of the board, Mr De Clerck, does not ask the government not to do so and not to withdraw from Proximus, but to invest and innovate and to pay attention to employment and the social objective. This government, of which you are still a member, Mr Peeters, may be of concern to you too, so just listen, now says that the wet liberal dream must be realized. Mr Deputy Prime Minister, do you still intend to proceed with this privatisation, even if you know that this will cost the taxpayer and the families who will have to pay the invoice a great deal of money, or are you prepared, as a good family father, to bring up your calculator and to re-create the calculation?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-07-54-plenair-ip044x.u9	Mr Deputy Prime Minister, the reason for this question was the famous newspaper article in L.Echo and De Tijd. I am surprised by the surprise of a number of fellow Members. The government agreement states that the legal obligation to hold a majority share will be deleted. In fact, our group tabled a proposal in the last parliamentary term by Sabien Lahaye-Battheu and now again by myself and a colleague. For the sake of clarity, Mr Geerts, this is not a wet ideological dream for us, let alone a financial calculation, which is obviously the most important thing for you. The real commitment of the debate is this. These are two public undertakings which have to operate in a highly competitive market. Today they are subject to many rules which make it particularly difficult for them. They even have to work with politically appointed boards of government. That's the problem. At the same time, the consumer is the victim, because state-owned companies keep the market closed. Those closed markets cause too high prices. We've seen that this week. Proximus announces a price increase of 6%. Telenet announced a 5% price increase a few months ago. Who's the victim of that? The consumer. That's why this has to change. Mr Geerts also says that this is not a good-house father mentality. Mr Geerts, are you homesick about the time when the real family father had to knock on the right membership card to get a phone connection to the RTT? That's what you want back. This is socialism of the 20th century. We must look forward. Ladies and gentlemen, free competition with good rules always benefits consumers. Mr Minister, will you finally get rid of the political appointments on the boards of these state-owned companies? When will you delete the legal obligation to hold a majority share?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-07-54-plenair-ip044x.u10	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for these questions. I have read, like you, the newspaper saying that we are reforming the law of 21 March 1991 on public undertakings. Like Mr Van Quickenborne, I do not understand the swell very well, unless the opposition would not have read the coalition agreement, or would not have listened if I had made my policy statement. I made it very clear at the time that a reform of the 1991 law is insisting. This reform is particularly important for listed companies and companies operating in a competitive environment. It is true that we are in the process of carrying out technical studies. Once they are finalized, I will submit the proposals to the Council of Ministers as soon as possible. Then I'll come and expose them to Parliament. I wish to express my views on the objectives of the work we are currently undertaking. Proximus and bpost are solid companies. They are strong, among other things, thanks to the enormous efforts made by the workers of the two companies to modernise the two companies. These companies work in markets that are experiencing incredible flows. For example, for bpost, for the previous three months, the volume of packages increased by 10%. This market is falling in some areas, but there is huge growth in others. What's my objective? That is that these two strong companies can remain strong companies. This is to the benefit of the consumer, but also of the employment of the two companies. I'm working on three domains. The first domain concerns the organisational constraints that exist today. They ensure that bpost and Proximus actually have to start lagging behind in the competition with ordinary private companies they face. It goes without saying that the rights acquired will be taken into account, but it also seems logical to me that the social dialogue should take a decision on them. The second domain concerns corporate governance. In this respect, a number of rules currently apply which do not apply at all to other companies and, for example, to listed companies. This means, indeed, that this will be the end of political appointments by the Council of Ministers. In other words, the aim is that in the future the Council of Ministers will no longer make appointments to the Boards of Directors. I have the feeling that some people regret it, but that will be the proposal that will be put on the table. It is true that we want to avoid direct intervention in this area. A third element. It is true that consideration is being given to creating a framework in which it may be possible to fall below 50% in terms of participation. Possibly. The possibility is created. The debate or one will do so, in what circumstances and in what direction is another debate. Today we are creating the opportunity. Honestly, I am somewhat surprised by the criticism of the conservative left. Your glorification of the state is still moving. I will paraphrase a person who said: "I have no ideological blockage about it. I'm not bragging about keeping the 51%." Who said that? It was Paul Magnette on January 12, 2013. Dear friends of the PS, I fully agree with Mr. Magnette. Neither do we rob ourselves in ideological thinking. Not at all! It's not an ideological thought. It is an option that we have to act in the direction of consumers and workers in this society. This is the work that this government will do: to ensure that these companies can fight with equal weapons.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-07-54-plenair-ip044x.u11	Mr Minister, we are therefore well on our way to the privatisation of Proximus and bpost. As Mr. Van Quickenborne: "This is not a surprise, we want to do it". Minister, you will appear before Parliament to discuss this matter, in accordance with your commitment. On the other hand, you say, as has already been so often the case, that everything will be better after, as if everything were going so badly, today. We are faced with two leading companies that we like to recognize the merits and successes. And we know what happens after privatisation: redundancies, rising prices and less accessibility for all. You say that the government will no longer intervene in these areas, yet so important and you add that it is better for politicians not to deal with them anymore! In this way, you discharge your responsibilities. I would like here to congratulate Mr Magnette on his openness and his freedom of mind. He commits himself in his personal capacity. I invite you to do as he does, to open your mind and not always refer to an ideology of the 1980s. In conclusion, the Socialist Group will oppose the privatisation of these two companies.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-07-54-plenair-ip044x.u12	Mr Minister, what is at least surprising is that you do not even justify the logic of the privatisations that are being discussed. According to you, it flows from the source. You're connected to Chicago School, Milton Friedman, a defender of the invisible hand of the market and the "foot to the ass" given to workers and users. I would like to stress one point. You say that we are witnessing the end of political appointments. This may indeed be the case, but it is above all the end of something much more fundamental, namely the end of democracy applied to public services. In other words, it is no longer the elected representatives, the representatives of the people, who will be able to determine what the public services will do and how, but a few shareholders, some pension funds will decide the fate of those public enterprises. We are therefore witnessing the confiscation of democracy, which is one of the essential elements of public services. In doing so, the PTB joins the social movement that has been committed to your policy since the end of 2014. After the index jump, the pension at age 67, the tax shift that we know will be detrimental to workers, we are now attacking the public services. With the people, the workers who fight against your policy, we will say "no" to privatization.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-07-54-plenair-ip044x.u13	Minister, you did not answer the questions. Within staff, concerns about press articles are not eased. It is your responsibility to make a clear decision quickly because a number of people are behind these decisions; you have not explained how you were thinking about things. With regard to the end of political appointments, is that now that you have designated penguins? I'm astonished at your reaction. We must of course put an end to political appointments, but are you going to remove everything behind this pretext? You have spoken at length about this, but you have carefully avoided other subjects. That's very surprising. There was no single word on the public service missions of these two companies, including the distribution of pensions, digital coverage for schools, hospitals or libraries. We did not have an answer to that. I am afraid that you will make purely ideological choices which undermine the tasks of the public service, which are short-term budgetary visions and which do not answer questions relating to the maintenance of employment and the maintenance of the statutes. It is paradoxical that, on the one hand, you are a banker by keeping BNP Paribas shares in the name of a certain ideology and, on the other hand, you are missing out on public service missions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-07-54-plenair-ip044x.u14	For me, Minister, your explanation is not at all reassuring, and perhaps not for the consumers and staff of public enterprises and taxpayers. Mr Van Quickenborne, it will once again be the families who will have to pay this EUR 155 million, because of the gap you will succeed in the budget. Mr. Secretary, years ago I read an interview with a former custody minister in which he said his basement was full of files of people who had contacted him for an RTT line. What city do you think that basement is in?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-07-54-plenair-ip044x.u15	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Devin, today we have learned that when the president of the PS speaks, he does so in his personal name and not on behalf of his party. That's remarkable, isn't it? It was Mr Magnette who, as chairman of the PS, said that this is not an ideological matter for him, that this should be looked at pragmatically. Of course, that was when the PS was in the majority. By the way, in the 1990s part of Belgacom was sold and then Mr Di Rupo was minister of custody. Where was the P.S. At the time to say this couldn't be done? The wisdom will return, Mr Devin, you will see. Minister, your plan is a correct one, it is cautious and it is step-by-step. First, the possibility is created and then weighed up with the government or the possibility of planning a sale. Colleagues, why is that so important? Because the government in those domains should not be a player but a good referee. A good market with good rules of play always benefits consumers, as history has taught us, and we will have to keep saying that in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-07-54-plenair-ip044x.u16	Mr Minister, the Flemings who see us working in Parliament are probably doing so via Telenet or Proximus. This is not due to a lack of creativity, but simply because their choice is limited to two players in the telecom landscape. What does the price research published today show? There is an average increase of 6%. Well, we have to worry about that. Telecom, computer use and telephony are a basic expenditure. One can give the very classic answer: the recipe of competition. The question is whether there is sufficient competition and whether competition works in practice. We see that the small players who want to settle in the telecoms landscape are not taking place. That is because the network of the big players, the duopolists, is not being opened up. Why is it so hard to give the little ones another chance? Why is it so difficult to open up the network? The previous speakers have raised major questions about the share, which is falling and who can appoint who. The real commitment of the discussion, however, is for CD&V how this sector can be anchored in Belgium, how to maintain employment, how to reduce prices for consumers and how to obtain the best quality of infrastructure and services for Flemish, Walloon and Brussels consumers. Minister, assist consumers when they want to change operators. This can save as much as 150 euros a year. Apparently, there are still some technical obstacles. One cannot adequately compare. The details of the invoice are not automatically loaded into the simulator, etc. Mr President-in-Office, how do you explain the 6% increase in the telecoms market, which you claim to be playing so hard and pushing prices? How can one change operator faster and more easily?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-07-54-plenair-ip044x.u17	Mr Deseyn, as I have just said, I am very much in favour of depoliticisation and the autonomy of public undertakings. This also applies, of course, to management pricing. It concerns decisions taken by the company. The key question is, of course, how to ensure sufficient dynamism in the telecoms market. I'd like to make a few points. Firstly, we want consumers to compare prices more often. The BIPT study, which you mentioned, indicates that there may be differences of up to 20 or 25 euros between the different tariff formulas. It is therefore particularly important that the consumer takes the product he really needs and is not encouraged to buy products that are expensive and that he does not really need. On the site bestrate.be the consumer can make the right comparison. The BIPT and the sector can clearly make further efforts to promote that website, among other things. In addition, it is necessary to ensure that there are sufficient players on the market and that those players offer a product that is more appropriate to the consumer's wishes. By this I mean that the network must be opened up. Mr Deseyn, you say that the cable is not open, but that is not entirely correct. The cable is open. Today we are in the process of reviewing the wholesale tariffs for BIPT. It is, of course, essential that regulated wholesale prices are at a level which makes it possible for a third party to offer a competitive product. Finally, it is important that consumers can easily switch operators. Nowadays, consumers can change their mobile subscription very quickly. We are therefore seeing a lot of dynamism in the mobile market. This is thanks to the regulation that the new operator takes over the entire administrative procedure. For bundles there is no such arrangement today, but in the energy sector. Since the moment I joined as a minister, I have looked with the BIPT at how we can arrange this as quickly as possible for bundles. A royal decision with the title Easy switch is ready and the BIPT is engaged in the market survey. It is our intention to publish that royal decree before the coming summer. In one final point, I would like to say a few words about Telenet's takeover of Base. This acquisition requires us to monitor developments in this sector. Mr Deseyn, if you have more specific questions about Proximus' tariff increases, you can make sure of them to your party and city partner, who is chairman of the board of directors.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-07-54-plenair-ip044x.u18	As you can see, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, when a CEO is appointed, the government is best placed to put forward a number of contours and chalk lines, by making good agreements on the services and the way in which consumers are best served in the telecoms market. Changing the operator is indeed a necessary first step, but that is not enough now. After all, theoretically and in principle, the network should be open to smaller players, but in practice this is far too little or not in a correct way. You're saying there's got to be competition. However, in Belgium there is only infrastructure competition and that is still foolish competition, namely competition between copper and co-axial cables. In practice, there must be real price competition. In the long term, there should be a fibre optic network with an infrastructure manager, a strong government as a network manager. There can then be strong private providers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-07-54-plenair-ip044x.u19	Minister, four months ago to the day, at the same time, jihadist Islamists entered the premises of a Parisian press agency to assassinate twelve people at work, journalists and cartoonists. Today, OCAM considers that there is still a high risk of a terrorist threat in some parts of our territory. Yes, our soldiers are on the street to support the work of our police services, because the government made several decisions, including signing a memorandum of understanding on 17 January to protect the population and allow the presence of these soldiers. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, since 2003, the Reform Movement has been calling for this "Belgian-style" vivipirate plan to be put in place. The current government has put it in place. Such a system exists, moreover, in other European countries. But we never said we wanted to replace the police. On the contrary, they were to be assisted by the Defence, within the framework of the new National Security Council. Like others, I am somewhat stunned that an appeal has been brought against the presence of these soldiers on the street. Thanks to extensive media coverage, we learn that the Belgian League for Human Rights, the National Coordination of Action for Peace and Democracy, Vrede and Progress Lawyers Network regard the military presence as anxiogenic. Anxiogen! As if we had to be more afraid of our soldiers than terrorists who, weapons of war by hand, murder in museums or in our streets. Minister, in response to this militant approach, of course, but very demagogic and certainly opportunistic, I would like to ask you two questions. First, could you remind us of the legal or regulatory basis for the military presence in support of our police officers as part of the memorandum of understanding I was referring to right now? Secondly, is it correct that an action for annulment was brought? If so, to which body and against which decision?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-07-54-plenair-ip044x.u20	Mr President, Mr Pivin, first of all I want to say that everyone in our State has the right to express his or her opinion and to take the actions that he or she deems useful and necessary. It is one of the values of our society. I hope everyone agrees with that. But I still want to highlight two things. First, the legal basis for our action is solid and confirmed by several professors specialized in this field. Secondly, the returns of the military themselves and of the population are very positive. Their presence reinforces the sense of security and the crime figures prove exactly that. The associations in question brought an action with the governor of Antwerp and the minister-president of Brussels. They base their action on article 43 of the Integrated Police Act 1998, which specifies, inter alia, the conditions under which the army may be used. This Article 43 concerns requisitions made by the mayors. But this is not the legal basis that the government used. The current use of the army finds its legal basis in a memorandum of understanding that the entire government has validated. It refers to temporary support from the army in the context of a level of threat 3, which can only be extended by the Council of Ministers as a whole. There is nothing illegal about these matters. Military personnel perform static monitoring missions for institutions, neighbourhoods or buildings that are placed at level 3. This always takes place under the command of the police. Military personnel are well trained for such missions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-07-54-plenair-ip044x.u21	Minister, thank you. As you know, it will not surprise anyone, our support for the action you are taking, for the strengthening of the protection measures of our citizens, is unwavering. I also have a "but": it would still have to be remembered that these associations that file appeals have the freedom of expression and the possibility of bringing such remedies, because we live in a rule of law, there are rules but also people to ensure their protection. We, in the MR and other democratic formations, welcome the work of our police officers and soldiers who protect our fellow citizens, whether or not they are opposed to their presence on the street.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-07-54-plenair-ip044x.u22	Minister, it is likely that a naval vessel of the Belgian army will be deployed very soon to help solve the problem of boat refugees in the Mediterranean. The question is not whether this will happen, the question is under what modalities that will happen. I have a few questions for you. Either we opt for emopolitics, as we have seen in recent days by Secretary of State Francken, who has been on the spot and let his emotions prevail and has advocated all kinds of measures which, I believe, are not desirable at the moment. We need a despondency policy, a policy that keeps the refugees in Africa rather than encouraging them, despite all the emotions associated with the whole issue, to come here. That is why it is extremely important to know what we will do when we deploy such a Navy ship. Is it intended to take boat refugees out of the water and bring them to Europe, with everything that comes with it, or is it intended to take out the pirate ships? Is it intended to drag the refugee boats back to where they come from and belong, namely on the other side of the Mediterranean, and not here?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-07-54-plenair-ip044x.u23	Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, every day we hear stories of refugees crossing Europe with small boats. In the last few days and weeks hundreds of children, women and men have been drowned in the Mediterranean. Even if they have good reasons for fleeing their country, I believe that we must avoid this humanitarian tragedy by dealing with matters at source. One of the measures decided upon by the special European Council in the fight against trafficking in human beings is the strengthening of the joint operations Triton and Poseidon. Prime Minister Michel and the Minister of Defence have declared that the ship Godetia is ready to participate in such an operation or mission. On Sunday, Secretary of State Francken launched the idea of destroying human smugglers' boats. In the meantime, several countries would like the proposal. A joint EU resolution will be presented to the United Nations on Monday. Minister, CD&V is very concerned about the international legal framework and the legitimacy of such action. In the meantime, the proposal has led to a lot of discussion within the United Nations. None other than the Secretary-General of the United Nations, Mr Ban Ki-moon, considers the proposal of Secretary of State Francken and others to be inappropriate and far-reaching. Stopping and arresting smugglers is one thing, but destroying boats goes a long way. We must be aware that many fishermen and other people who have nothing to do with human smugglers and smuggling are also entering the water. The question is how to deal with that. Minister, has a decision been made to deploy the Godetia? What is the specific mission of this ship? Secondly, under what legal framework will this happen? What guarantees are there to protect innocent people, civilians? Thirdly, is the proposal of Secretary of State Francken to destroy the boats shared by the entire government?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-07-54-plenair-ip044x.u24	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Dewinter, thank you for your question and the interest you have shown. Last week, when the debate on the boat refugees took place in committee, that was not important enough for you. Here today, in front of the cameras, it seems to keep you from getting interested. There is more joy in the kingdom of heaven... Ladies and gentlemen, since the Minister for Defence is excused, I shall read you the answer to the questions put. To date, no decision has been taken on a possible deployment of defence resources to support the EU's ten-point plan. Defence can deploy the Godetia support ship to strengthen Operation Triton, led by Frontex, the EU Border Surveillance Agency. The mandate of Frontex for the performance of this mission shall be limited to the following operational objectives. Firstly, increasing border security. Secondly, operational cooperation and the exchange of information. Thirdly, identifying potential risk derivatives and threats. Fourthly, to carry out rescue operations and to develop and exchange practical measures. In a decision to deploy, the Godetia may support Operation Triton by gathering information, supporting EU border surveillance missions and, if necessary, providing assistance in marine rescue operations. The financing of the possible deployment of the Godetia will be the subject of ongoing negotiations with Frontex. This file is being led by my colleague from the Foreign Office. Defence is not yet aware of other missions but remains willing to study possible military support for other European initiatives. Mr Yüksel, as far as your specific question is concerned, is the government-wide support for the measure on the destruction of boats included in the ten measures approved by the European Council two weeks ago? These ten measures are also fully supported by our government.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-07-54-plenair-ip044x.u25	Minister, I find your first remark a little faint. After the Secretary of State was surrounded for three days by cameras and journalists who were all invited to attend his propaganda trip to Sicily and Lampedusa, you have come to blame me for the fact that I dare to ask a question about this in this hemisphere. Speaking of two sizes and two weights. It was different when the N-VA was in the opposition and Mr Francken was the opposition spokesperson on this issue. Now, however, to the bottom. The deployment of the Godetia, a Belgian military Navy ship, is a good thing in this case if it is intended to carry out a distress policy, if it is intended to keep the refugees in Africa, but not to send a signal in one way or another, giving them the impression that their crossing would be facilitated by such naval ships. This is a warship. Let it do what it was made to do, namely to ensure that the pirate ships are destroyed and that the refugee ships are towed back to the place of origin. That is the only task that we, as a Belgian government, can and may give to ensure, Mr Francken, Mr Jambon, that no new victims are made among the refugees. Today's emopolitics on the victims' hood only lead to more refugees coming, to more boat refugees dying at sea and to us, as always, to wash our hands in innocence.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-07-54-plenair-ip044x.u26	Mr President, I am very moved by the last words of Filip Dewinter as if he were very concerned about the fate of the refugees. Two weeks ago, I heard another story. Now, get to the point. I believe, Minister, that we must first look at the international legal framework. We hope that this will be clarified next week. The Godetia is a command and support ship. According to experts, armament on board is not sufficient to participate in such a mission. The security of our military, but also the safety of the refugees, is of course very important and is paramount to everything. I believe that we must also take into account the protection of innocent people travelling around there. There must be an international legal framework and the equipment for our boys and girls must also be in order. Finally, we cannot be expected to play in the Mediterranean without consultation with our European and international partners, Rambo. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-07-54-plenair-ip044x.u27	Mr President, Mr Minister for Foreign Affairs, ladies and gentlemen, in the questions we are asking you today, it is not a question of questioning neither the human qualities nor the experience nor the dedication nor the professional abilities of our teams in Nepal. The basic question is whether the B-FAST system is well suited to this type of disaster. You know my position. She's constant. We have already discussed this in committee when other disasters occur. For my part, this device is not suitable. We have had another clear demonstration this time. There is no point in sending a C-130 to the other side of the planet with rescue teams that, by definition, will arrive too late, will be diverted; this had already been the case for the Philippines and the earthquake in Haiti. It doesn't make sense to do as fifty-three other countries that sent 4,000 first-aid workers who have crowded the airports, the roads, which have not allowed food aid, water and the one that allows them to protect themselves from the cold, reach the survivors in time! Do you know how many people these 4,000 rescuers have saved according to WHO? Sixteen people! That's great. But probably twenty times fewer rescue workers would have done the same job and in the meantime hundreds of thousands of others were not rescued! It is time to note that, despite the experience, and precisely because of the experience we have gained, we can do much better to help these victims. We can save not one, two or three victims, but hundreds of people if we learn from the past, if we work at European level and if we make sure we have a real operational capability. We have known that for twenty years. I was director of operations for a large NGO. We have known for thirty years that what has been done this time must no longer be done. When will Belgium learn from the past?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-07-54-plenair-ip044x.u28	Mr Minister, I am once again here on behalf of the N-VA Group with a question on B-FAST. Last week I asked for an evaluation of the shipment from B-FAST to Nepal. Back then, the B-FAST team was still in Nepal, but couldn't have done much there. Today the situation is different, Minister. Since Tuesday the team is back in Belgium. We hear from conversations with individual team members that they have been able to do something. Any help they have offered, however little, makes the mission meaningful, they say. I totally agree with that. They also say, however, that they have not been able to develop fully. The individual team members want to discuss this in order to draw lessons from it, so that better functioning is guaranteed in the future. The team's back, Minister. In addition to the comments that were made last week about the late decision to send the team and the choice of the team, there are now a number of comments on the competence of the Head of Service Disaster Management both inside and outside B-FAST and questions about the organisation and decision-making of B-FAST. It is clear that there is a need for an evaluation. The N-VA Group therefore believes that the evaluation should not only look at this mission, but that the evaluation should be much wider. It must include this mission, the previous missions and the organisation of B-FAST. That is why I have a few questions for you, Minister. Firstly, I repeat a question from last week, which arguments have been put forward to send the rescue team? Was a context analysis made in Nepal before that decision was taken? Does every individual team member get a debriefing after the mission, like Doctors Without Borders? This appears to be a very important tool for ex post evaluation. We would like to have a detailed cost picture. Finally, when can Parliament expect the evaluation of the mission and of the organisation?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-07-54-plenair-ip044x.u29	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it is a pity that there has been a game of mud throwing, while thousands of Nepalese are crying out for water, food and medical help. B-FAST has proven its value, usefulness and expertise in the past. Think of the strong intervention in Haiti, where we were the first to be present on the ground and for which we were honoured. Questioning B-FAST as such is not the issue for my party at this stage. However, my group is always loyal to the coalition agreement. It includes an evaluation of a number of parameters such as efficiency and cooperation. There are a number of problems. The first problem is that there is today an advisory committee of NGOs and experts under the B-FAST procedure. Apparently that committee has been consulted very little or never in recent years. However, experts from Doctors Without Borders and the Red Cross Flanders are part of this. Cunina, who knows Nepal's specific, local, mountainous context very well, could also have been involved. Secondly, in addition to the B-FAST procedure, there is another problem, namely European cooperation. In the past, we have already advocated the creation of a European Civil Assistance Corps. Any country can contribute. Where is Belgium best at, where is France best at and how can we coordinate efficiently? Mr Minister, I have the following questions. Firstly, be fast, will you review and adapt the existing procedure and mandate? Is it not appropriate to seek an opinion from the advisory committee with NGOs and experts, that in recent years little has been consulted until never? Secondly, efficient, every local situation is different. China and India arrived very quickly. Wasn't it appropriate to work with them? How do we ensure that our locally firmly anchored NGOs, which are internationally renowned and embedded in an international network, arrive on site with field hospitals? After all, they have the necessary expertise and the field hospitals. Thirdly, be the best, we need better coordination at European level. How can we ensure that Belgium's added value is maximised?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-07-54-plenair-ip044x.u30	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I can assure you that the choice of sending a USAR search and rescue team was entirely justified at the time of the needs assessment, taking into account both the mobilization of our resources and the means of transport available. The deployment proposal was submitted to the B-FAST Coordination Board's agreement again on Saturday, April 25, 2015 – as I hear a lot of comments about deadlines – and all the government partners validated it shortly thereafter. Every B-FAST operation, I assure you, is always evaluated after our teams return. It's not going to be any different this time. The purpose of such an evaluation is always the same: to identify and address weaknesses. The main actors involved in the mission in Nepal will already meet for the first time tomorrow. As you said, they came back on Tuesday. I believe that we will have the opportunity to review all the points of attention and other sessions will follow in order to deepen this assessment. The lessons that we will learn from the current crisis are not just for the Belgian level. There will also be a need for further consultations with European and international partners. The location of the disaster and international coordination at the start of the assistance have caused several international teams, not only for rescue, to arrive with delay. Today I received a letter from the Nepalese government, in which she specifically thanked Belgium for the help B-FAST has given to the Nepalese people. Nepal acknowledges that the congestion problems at the airport and the overwhelming international response put the Nepalese government at an immense challenge, with the known consequences; the situation in the country was difficult and chaotic, as I said last week. However, let me make one thing clear. Although our USAR capacity (Urban Search and Rescue) could not be fully exploited, the team has been able to distinguish itself in other areas of expertise, such as medical assistance, assistance in evaluating critical infrastructure and utilities and providing assistance to incoming humanitarian aid, which was already underway. I would therefore like to thank our people who went to Nepal, and the fellow Members in Brussels who permanently populated the back office, for their professional commitment. Mr President, the commitment of B-FAST has also made it possible to bring dozens of compatriots and other EU citizens back to Europe. We also had tents, cots, blankets, tables, chairs and electricity facilities in Nepal. NGOs will be able to use that material on the spot. So the mission is not the failure that some people like to lead. In the coming weeks, an in-depth analysis will have to be carried out with all those involved. I will give an initial explanation of the past mission in the Committee on External Relations next Monday. I would add that we have consistently requested that coordinated actions be organised at European level. B-FAST left with a number of experts from Luxembourg, Germany and the European Crisis Centre, on board an Airbus and not a C-130. We have therefore had the opportunity to ensure that this coordination develops. For European coordination to go further, agreement at European level is needed, but we have not yet achieved it. Mr President, I can understand a number of comments about the efforts that were made last week and the attempts that we made. Many other teams were unable to reach Nepal, others came back earlier. We went back with the Dutch team. I would like to say again the deep respect I have for all these volunteers. I hear that they were sent out too late, but we met the Coordinating Committee within a few hours of Nepal's request and there were more than forty volunteers on foot in Puisie, ready to fly to Nepal after twenty-four hours! I think we should first thank them! [[Applause]] Of course, we will make all the necessary assessments but I remain convinced, and the letter from the Nepalese authorities confirms this, that, as in Haiti and other operations, despite the delays and despite the difficulties, we have been able to provide important assistance to the population.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-07-54-plenair-ip044x.u31	Minister, I myself began my remarks by thanking them. They do have both skill, dedication and experience. But this should not prevent us, on the contrary, and out of respect for these teams, from making our assistance more effective and efficient in the future. I regret to note that each time you are in a defensive position with regard to B-FAST. You say that we had a positive experience in Haiti but we were also delayed there. We were also hijacked. Our hospital had to close its doors after five days. According to CNN's report, our teams had to leave our hospital every night at 5:00 p.m. for security reasons. In the Philippines, we also had problems of diversion. It is therefore time, thanks to this experience, to make us much more effective in the future. Thirty years ago, a recognized international disaster relief expert, Mr. de Ville de Goyet, said that the massive arrival of unsuited relief teams is what is called the disaster in the disaster! I think that tomorrow we can do better than that through our expertise, working at European level, putting in place peripheral stocks, putting in place contingency plans that are prepared, working with local teams with exercises, building shelters, that's what we need to do for the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-07-54-plenair-ip044x.u32	Minister, we are pleased to hear that you wish to have the mission and B-FAST evaluated. Of course, an evaluation is not only necessary at Belgian level. I think it is particularly necessary here first, because we must first evaluate ourselves before sitting around the table with the others. Of course, this question from the N-VA Group has nothing to do with questioning the commitment of individual B-FAST members. Our question is whether the organisation and coordination fully supports the value of the committed volunteers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-07-54-plenair-ip044x.u33	Mr President, Minister, the courageous and voluntary commitment of the people at the disposal of B-FAST is certainly not questioned here. However, we would like to refer to the coalition agreement on which we remain faithful and which states that a global assessment must be carried out. We believe that there should be mandatory consultation, in the context of every disaster that is taking place, with the NGOs that have expertise in the field. They must give mandatory advice because they know the situation very well. We still need a second mandatory consultation at European level. We are all trying to be quickest, but that is not what this is about; it is about being the best in what we can and do today. That is why I call for initiatives at European level, to go with a European corps on the ground in the future and not to be the fastest, but above all the best.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-07-54-plenair-ip044x.u34	Mr Minister, there have been three new developments in this debate which we have been dealing with for many months now in this parliamentary forum and elsewhere in Europe: the Transatlantic Treaty. On Tuesday, Belgian civil society, fully consolidated - this is a rare fact, a common front - mutuals, trade unions, environmental associations, human rights associations, including liberal associations, sent you a clear message and asked you to suspend the ongoing negotiations in Europe between the 28 Member States of the European Union and the United States. This suspension of negotiations, as well as the message, are clear. On Wednesday, Cecilia Malmström, Commissioner for Trade in the European Commission, presented a so-called reformed ISDS model, this famous system for settling investor-state disputes. Reading the draft in detail is only an attempt to smoke, since it wants to create a permanent court, or even an international commercial tribunal, in the long run, without specific elements. I also think that this is an attempt to bring with it the Socialist European parliamentarians of the European Parliament. This is a fundamental question, to which it does not answer: why create a private judicial structure, which is parallel and superior to the state courts that currently exist in the United States and Europe, which are particularly robust systems? Today, a Council of Trade Ministers will discuss the Transatlantic Treaty in general and this clause in particular. Mr Minister, are these elements, citizen mobilization, the new ISDS, likely to change Belgium's position within the Council? What position will Belgium stand for?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-07-54-plenair-ip044x.u35	Mr Hellings, I will not recall the positions and red lines placed by Belgium and other countries in the negotiating mandate given to the Commission under the previous government. This morning's meeting was a meeting of the Trade Council, at which the Commissioner gave an update on the ninth round of negotiations that had just taken place in April. We had a first exchange on a document received this Monday, by which the Commission is trying to respond in particular to all the comments that took place during the public consultation on these ISDS clauses. I had the opportunity this morning to relay the reservations expressed in civil society, as indeed by different levels of power in Belgium. I would like to stress a number of points. First, this debate will continue. As you know, the first debate will take place in the European Parliament and, by the beginning of June, a resolution will probably be proposed, allowing it to take an attitude. Then I remind you of the Belgian position. It's pretty simple. First, we defend the right to regulate. For national authorities, of course, there is no question that such a mechanism could undermine the right of States to regulate in a number of areas according to their objectives. We also want to go further in transparency. I welcome Commissioner Cecilia Malmström's efforts in this area. We ask that the US negotiating documents also be communicated to us as soon as possible, so that we have access to all the elements under negotiation. We also want priority to be given to giving national courts, in any reform, the possibility of having a multilateral redress system, i.e. working at a multilateral level and not just in the relations between the partners that are now around the table. I was glad to hear that. Finally, with regard to the legal consequences that could be attached to arbitration mechanisms, we have repeatedly reiterated our request to know the human rights and sustainable development implications of those mechanisms. This morning's meeting made it possible to share all the comments made by the various States. I would remind you that the debate is going to continue now in the European Parliament, and it is when we get back that we will start a debate on legal conclusions. It is of course at this point that it will be a question of whether we want to go further or not. At no time around the table has there come the idea of suspending negotiations as you and others demand. Before judging the outcome of the negotiations, they must first be undertaken.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-07-54-plenair-ip044x.u36	Minister, thank you for your answers. Having said that, we will not agree. You say that ISDS will not prevent you from guaranteeing this right to regulate, to legislate. It may not prevent states, parliaments from legislating, but it will greatly deter them from doing so, as they will be under the threat of a private court that could undermine our social, environmental and human rights standards. The Transatlantic Treaty project is not a societal project. In fact, the collective associations on the common front tell you this clearly. It is a project of companies, multinational companies that want to force our social and environmental norms to maximize their profits. That is why we are not asking for the suspension only, but for the cessation of these negotiations. We are as clear to you as the associations have sent you this message.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-07-54-plenair-ip044x.u37	Mr President, Minister, we citizens expect us to respect the physical and sexual integrity of another person, especially when it comes to children and young people. Parliament has also made a point of this. We have set up a special committee on Sexual Abuse and have carried out legislative work supported across party boundaries, which has been brought to a successful conclusion. In practice, we have noticed that this has changed. However, I can imagine the people outside and understand when they do not understand at all today how a coach is going to go free and watch young people in the dressing rooms, nor how they are going to pay for the costs of the process by young people. As a lawyer, you will reply to me later that the judgment has to do with an interpretation given by the Court of Appeal to our legislation. I'm gonna have to hear and take that from you. However, the people outside expect us to fill that gap in the law and seek remedies for it. You will tell me that we must reform the Criminal Code of 1867. Minister, my two questions to you are very specific. Firstly, do we have to wait for this reform of criminal law to resolve the gaps that exist today, or can we act already? Will you support us if we want and can fill them by legislation here in Parliament today? Secondly, I have a very specific question. We need a reform of criminal law. We can't do that on one-two-three. There is a great deal of expertise and support in the field to do this reform. Can you give us a mandate for one particular branch, for example, for everything in the field of sexual criminal law? We've been through one incident today. We know, however, that there will be more. Can you give a mandate to the Special Committee on Sexual Abuse to work on this issue so that we prepare that aspect of criminal law to include it in that comprehensive reform of criminal law?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-07-54-plenair-ip044x.u38	Mrs Van Cauter, you have already said everything I wanted to say. So I'm not sure you'd like me to say it. Very briefly, for those who did not know what I wanted to say, we have the principle of legality in our country, at least in criminal law, and also in fiscal law, Mr Van Overtveldt. That principle of legality was, in this case, interpreted by the Court of Cassation, as you call it, and did not result in a provision which, as far as I am concerned, makes these behaviours totally reprehensible. "The secret filming of a naked person without his consent and knowledge and without any physical or moral urge, the crime of sexual assault by force or threat cannot result, even if the victim is distorted in his expectations." I'm not in favour of flaming legislation. However, I believe that we must make criminal behaviour, behaviour that you and I and everyone in this hemisphere feel to be criminal in the right way. Your next question is whether this can be done quickly or whether we should wait for the reform of the penal code? I've already asked for advice from my administration. I will ask the experts I wish to entrust with the reform of the Code of Criminal Law if this criminality fits in with their plans. Then I will test this against your bill and go to the Justice Commission as soon as possible. This answers your first question. Mr President, I am in a hurry to answer the second question. I didn't expect that one. I cannot simply give a mandate to the Committee on Sexual Abuse, but this seems to me to be an attractive idea. I have the pleasure, Mrs Van Cauter, of meeting you less than I would like but more than most other Members of Parliament. I shall immediately enter into detailed consultations with you on this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-07-54-plenair-ip044x.u39	Thank you, Minister. I could think what you'd say, but of course I couldn't know for sure. In any case, I am pleased that we have a unanimous reading of the coalition agreement. I have noted that this is not always the case for all the themes. I am glad to hear that we agree on this interpretation. I am also pleased, Minister, that you want to cooperate with Parliament, because we are aware, more than anyone else, that this Parliament has a role to play and that we, as a Parliament, have a social added value. As Members of Parliament, we can achieve this social added value, but we must, of course, have the support of the government. I look forward to a good cooperation, not just with regard to solving this problem. This isn't a flare. Let us agree on that. Our bill dates back to the previous legislature. If we can make a fundamental solution to the problem and go a step further and work comprehensively, as you propose, together with Parliament, then we can offer a result that will serve the people.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-07-54-plenair-ip044x.u40	Mr President, Minister, there is a hurrah about your hospital funding reforms. You have favored the doctors and the hospital directories. However, you should not forget the most important link, especially the caregiver next to the patient. I am concerned and, unfortunately, the media agree with me twice this week. Today an article was published about the shortage of nurses around the patient's bed and throughout the week the midwifes in the press were given the floor about the after-birth care with reduced hospitalization. In Belgium, a nurse has to take care of 10.8 patients on average, while in neighbouring countries, this is 8.3 patients. You admitted in committee that this is a point of no return, but in your reform plan I miss the resources you will use to solve that problem. It's even worse with the midwifes in the first line. Midwives don't deserve the salt on their chips. They get 25 euros for a house visit, which takes an hour. An independent midwife leaves about 8 euros of this, a pre-war rate. Group practices in which midwife workers go bankrupt. I should know, because I've been working in that sector for 30 years and every day I receive e-mails and telephone calls from midwifes calling the alarm bell loudly. Madam Secretary, we cannot save on care at the beginning of life. Midwifes are indispensable in the succession of mother and baby. Midwifes are threatening to decontaminate massively. In Brussels, as in other major cities, this is already happening. Especially disadvantaged families will suffer, because they do not have hospitalisation insurance. Madam Secretary, my question is very simple. Will you free up funds for more nursing staff and for a proper wage for midwife in the first line, to get rid of current pre-war rates?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-07-54-plenair-ip044x.u41	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, who remembers the 1960s? The time when television was introduced into the living rooms. It is also at that time that the best-affining standards for hospital staff were set. A long time ago! Those standards, unbelievable but true, have since hardly been adjusted, while the care gravity has increased immensely due to ageing and evolutions in medical technology. It's a matter of, literally, vital importance. The risk of mortality increases by seven percent per patient who needs to be cared for by the nurse. Madam Minister, the N-VA Group has two concerns. Two months ago, when I called for an urgent approach to the under-financing of care staff, you referred to the reform of hospital funding. I quote from your answer: 'If we are talking about the financing of hospitals, most of it is about the staffing framework.' Last week the plan of action was finally there, but in fact there is hardly any mention of the best-affining standards. Maybe you're implying, somewhere, that the bestaffin standards will be raised. Our group is keen to have concrete guarantees that there will be improvement for the white sector and that funding, now barely a nurse for 12 patients, will improve and be increased. The water is really on the lips of the hospitals and the care staff. Our second concern is the following. I repeat the quote just now: 'If we are talking about the financing of hospitals, most of it is about the staffing framework.' Three parties were involved in the preparation of the plan of action, namely the sickness funds, the hospital domes and the doctors. Not the care staff. Madam Minister, on behalf of the N-VA, I would like to ask why that is the case. Will you hear the professional associations soon in this file? Can you say specifically whether they will be represented in the working group and/or the task force?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-07-54-plenair-ip044x.u42	Mr. Chairman, Madam Minister, perhaps my question should focus more specifically on the shortage of nurses, as it is known that the proportion of women in this profession is much higher. The International Day of Nurses will take place on Tuesday, May 12. This parenthesis being made, the news of this week, in Flanders, leads us to come back to a topic of concern to the least, namely the shortage of nurses. A few weeks ago, I wanted to express my concern about the shortage of nurses in our country and, in particular, some specialized nurses. This is, above all, about the quality of care provided to patients. Indeed, nurses are always on the front line. Madam Minister, I wanted to ask you in plenary because it appears, following checks carried out by the Health Inspectorate, that in Flanders, one in four hospitals has too few nurses with the qualifications required to meet the standards for emergency care and intensive care services. In the years 1999-2000, we experienced a real shortage of nurses. Today, it appears that the number of nursing students continues to increase. Unfortunately, however, it seems that many of them do not find themselves in the labour market or leave the profession after a few years of activity because of the difficult working conditions in this occupation. In addition, as the President of the Belgian Association of Nurse Practitioners recently pointed out, the workload imposed on nurses is increasing while the standards of supervision have not been reviewed for decades. The situation is therefore problematic. Minister, what about the shortage of nurses in our country today? When writing my question, I asked myself about the specialties most affected by this shortage. It appears that the latter is particularly evident in the areas of intensive care and emergency care. What do you think are the reasons for this? It seems that the workload, but also the lack of financial resources of hospitals, are also important elements? What do you think? Has a workload assessment been conducted? Are you planning a change to the management standards? Do you think you are clearly integrating this issue into your hospital finance reform? In line with what has already been undertaken by your predecessor, Ms. Onkelinx, are new initiatives being considered to enhance the attractiveness of the trade?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-07-54-plenair-ip044x.u43	Ladies and gentlemen, today the problem is topical. The Flemish Health Inspectorate finds that in about half of the hospitals visited there are problems with the bestaffining of the services, including intensive care and emergency services. Reference is made here to a stricter requirements framework for services and also to international studies which effectively emphasise the importance of sufficient care staff, nurses around the patient's bed. Of course, this is an important part of the plan of action for the reform of the hospital landscape and hospital funding. Of course, it covers both nurses and midwifes. We've talked about the Mother-Child trajectories several times. First and foremost, we aim for an efficient allocation of resources, both financially and humanly. Nurses must be able to spend more time at the patient's bedside, among other things, by reducing administrative burdens. Other measures that we are working on as part of the hospital reform and which will ensure that hospital nurses have more time for the patient are, for example, the reduction of unused beds and the conversion of unnecessary acute beds to beds for rehabilitation care, which require less staffing. Ultimately, reducing the length of stay, in parallel with appropriate care outside the hospital, will also mean that hospital nurses will have to manage fewer beds. I shall then come to the comments on the hospitals. You have heard this many times. We spent hours in committee proposing the plan of action. That does not mean that everything is already settled, but we do want to continue in consultation. We have also seen the nurses' unions. I think I know that they are represented by them. In hospitals too, we will have to join forces in networks and not offer every service in every hospital anymore. This should also allow fewer services to be provided in hospitals but better served services, guaranteeing a permanent presence of sufficiently qualified staff. So our goal is on the one hand, more nurses for the care of the patient. On the other hand, we want a more attractive life for nurses, and I also count on the midwife. I'm sorry you get phones from them every day, but that means they still have a minute off for you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-07-54-plenair-ip044x.u44	Madam Secretary, I am happy to have them on the line, because they are hardworking, committed people. I hope that the mother-child path, to which you refer, is not only on the point of content, but I also hope that the resources released in hospitals will not only remain in hospitals, but will be fairly redistributed in order to address the poor nomenclature of home care or first-line nurses. Finally, I am pleased that the government party N-VA largely shares my analysis. That's how it's gonna progress very well.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-07-54-plenair-ip044x.u45	I welcome your agreement that care workers are human capital, in which we need to invest, and that you are committed to more nurses and better working conditions in hospitals. Nurses do not apply directly to the hospital, but all the more indirectly, by providing quality care. We will need more than 440 000 in 45 years' time. It is all hands on deck to maintain existing forces and to immediately improve working conditions in the white sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-07-54-plenair-ip044x.u46	Minister, I still have to pay attention to the fact that reducing the patient's time in hospital may increase the stress of nurses. The question of home care will also arise. Since nurses represent almost a third of the staff of health networks, it is important, in my view, to really improve the nursing profession – and perhaps through your reform. Various measures have already been taken to that end, but we must be able to reverse the desertion logic of this profession. Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-07-54-plenair-ip044x.u47	Minister, we have discussed this internal instruction on several occasions. We differ on what is in it and on its legality. Today, however, I would like to ask you about your motives for having the internal instruction sold to Parliament. You used two arguments, if I recall correctly. I've just read the minutes. You said, firstly, that the situation after 31 December 2013, the end of the regularisation period, was unclear and that there was a need for clarity and that an instruction was needed. Secondly, you noted that shopping would take place where it is most interesting, and that would be where the deal would be closed. We checked it out. It now appears that there are two instructions specifically relating to the period after regularisation and to the fact that spontaneous declarations are still taking place. In that respect, the more the merrier. There was a first instruction in July 2014 which clearly explains to all valuation services how the case should be dealt with and which clearly states that the penalty rates are the rates set out in the law. So there was clarity, in my eyes. A second instruction was issued in November in which it was decided that the valuation services were no longer allowed to do it themselves, but that everything had to go to the BBI via the central administration. There was no shopping at the time either. However, you created a new instruction in January, while there was clarity and shopping was no longer applicable. I therefore ask you, Minister, what is the real reason why the instruction had to be given? I see one difference. That is in the fact that the penalty rates in your instruction are much lower than in the first instruction. My second question is about the 100 extra staff for the BBI. After budgetary control, we called for that point to be raised. Now we see that these people will not be used for tax fraud, but to deal with the files within the framework of internal instruction. I'd like to know clearly what these people are going to do at the BBI.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-07-54-plenair-ip044x.u48	Mr Vanvelthoven, the internal directive of the BBI to which you refer is not regularisation. I would like to stress that once again. It is an application of the law and a uniformisation of the way in which the Feds deal with spontaneous late declarations which, moreover, are not necessarily fraudulent and to prevent tax shopping, which was indeed the case. I would also like to stress that the tax authorities are legally obliged to assess these declarations. I don't think it's your intention to just send these people out for a walk, let alone turn a blind eye. With regard to new recruitments, it is true that the processing of late declarations entails additional workload. That is why it was decided to extend to 106 additional recruitments. The exact use of these 106 people is still the subject of analysis and consultation. The summit of the BBI is preparing this concrete implementation in consultation with me. This will also be the subject of a workload measurement to determine how staff, current and new, can be used optimally and thus as efficiently as possible. As far as fines are concerned, at the moment I have no indication whatsoever that the directive would be outside the law, quite the contrary. Mr Vanvelthoven, I keep hearing you talk about statutory fines of 50% to 100%. That's the argument you keep quoting. I'm afraid I'm gonna have to ask you to give me a little more information. Indeed, the law clearly states Article 225 of the Royal Decree implementing the 1992 WIB that if the late declarations were not deliberately declared late, the fines start from 10%. It is therefore also a question of the principle of proportionality. This principle is based on European legislation, in particular the Convention on Human Rights. Finally, if there is fraud in these late declarations, criminal prosecution will always be considered at least.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-07-54-plenair-ip044x.u49	Mr President, Minister, I do not know whether you realise that your credibility is now under great pressure. After all, there were two instructions, which were clear and clear, which excluded shopping. I asked you why that third instruction was needed, and you did not answer it. That's important. You're also saying that there were 106 employees added to the BBI. Again, I am glad that they are being used in the fight against tax fraud, as you announced in the press. The notification of the Council of Ministers does not, however, state that under the heading of 'non-refundable' notification by taxable persons of non-timely declared income. According to the Council of Ministers' notification, these 106 people will be recruited for this purpose. Today you say that you do not really know yet, that this has yet to be discussed. At a time when there is a stop in the entire administration of the federal government to recruit staff, you get 106 people and you don't know it yet. Your credibility is below zero as far as I'm concerned. You refer to the Royal Decree implementing the WIB, you rightly report late returns. This is about files for the BBI. Late declaration files don't go to the BBI. That's tax fraud. With regard to tax fraud, our tax legislation talks about 50 % to 200 %, in your instruction it is 20 % to 50 %. That's the point I want to make all the time.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-07-54-plenair-ip044x.u50	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, I was relatively surprised by your interview this Monday in the press and by the comments you made. I believe that we have already shown in the past, particularly during the previous legislature, that the Socialist Party does not condone fraud. We do not condone abuses and we consider it legitimate to combat them, as do fraud. But you mustn't push the plug too far! I cannot admit that I simply find it scandalous! Under the Verhofstadt government, in 2000, you voted for this measure, as did your party. You agreed to the removal of the inappropriate control; a whole procedure had then been put in place. Today, not only do you indicate that the surprise check can take place, without any framework, but you are also sweeping the entire procedure introduced by Mr. Crombez, namely to meet the person, hear his explanations and allow him to be accompanied. Here, you not only go to the home but you go further. I think you're wrong. You indicate that an investigating judge may be used if the door is not open. You know perfectly well that in order to appeal to the investigating judge, a complaint must be lodged with a civil party. So you're going to ask the ONEM systematically to file a civil suit for the investigating judge to authorize the controller to appear? You should have in your ear one of the sentences said by an investigating judge: "It's arming the ONEM with a bazooka to shoot a fly." Secretary of State, my questions are simple. Are the information in the press correct? Do you intend to reintroduce surprise checks at the home of job seekers? What are the target audiences? What are the conditions? How many people are at risk of these controls? How will these controls be carried out? When will controllers be able to enter the private sphere? I would like to point out that the most important criticism of this measure is the rape of intimacy. How will fundamental rights be guaranteed? How can supervision be carried out? Would it be possible to obtain the opinion of the Privacy Commission to which you referred? Moreover, let us stop double standards. What measures do you intend to take to combat major tax fraud? Will they be exactly the same?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-07-54-plenair-ip044x.u51	Mr President, Minister, the fight against fraud, whatever it may be, social fraud also deserves the involvement of the State services. Respect for the law is not questionable in any way. The most effective means of achieving the objectives set out in the fight against fraud must always be sought. I therefore seek to understand what motivated you to announce this measure, that in the future home visits could take place at any time, without warning the unemployed or the beneficiary of allowances; and whether this represents an increase in efficiency for the services. I have a low propensity to go read the ONEM reports. The last is for 2014. That's interesting. I assume of course that you read it before announcing your measure, Secretary of State; I have no doubt for a moment of this will. What does the ONEM report say? "With the help of the available data banks, surveys are conducted in a more efficient and efficient manner and the detection of misuse, in particular of allocation fraud, is being carried out in an optimal manner." "Optimally," says the ONEM report. In 2014, the cross-checking of different databases continued to be used frequently. The ONEM recalls that the Regis system has become widespread, including for front-line services and in particular for trade unions. Also in the ONEM report, on the situation of recovery by unemployment offices, it is stated that there is indeed a sharp increase in the recovery of debts due. According to ONEM, "this increase is also due to the strengthening of the control of home and family situations by means of a more systematic crossing of the debtor file and the national register of natural persons and better targeted controls." Therefore, to read the ONEM report, there is no demand for enhanced resources. Mr Secretary of State, do you have a statistic that allows you to say that your measure will yield more convincing results than those given by the ONEM in its annual report?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-07-54-plenair-ip044x.u52	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your questions. If we are to maintain our social protection and maintain its effectiveness, we must prohibit abuse to the maximum extent possible. That is the government's ambition. It is stated that the authorities treat dishonest practices at source as far as possible, instead of being overtaken by the facts and having to recover the amounts unduly paid ex post facto and in a repressive manner. I would like to point out that at ONEM there is an increase in the number of investigations, in the number of offences and in the number of amounts to be recovered, thanks to an even greater cross-checking of the data. Ladies and gentlemen, the controls are increasingly focused and I am convinced that we can increase the chances of catching up by re-introducing house visits by the inspectors of the RVA. You hear me right, re-introduce. The home visits without prior notification in case of suspected fraud were abolished in 2000, but only for the unemployed. Those house visits still exist at the RIZIV and OCMWS. Unannounced visits to wagers or persons seeking support to the OCMW are allowed, Mr Massin, and are also taking place today in the context of a social investigation, including in Charleroi. In the current procedure, the RVA should, in the event of serious indications of fraud, invite the unemployed to a hearing. That call must be made at least ten days in advance. Ladies and gentlemen, you understand that this procedure, rather than combating the phenomenon, gives fraudsters the opportunity to reorganise themselves. For no less than 10 days, the beneficiary shall be given the opportunity to eliminate any evidence and any indication of a different composition of the family. In the 2012-2013 report of the College of Attorneys General, presented in the Chamber, the College is particularly critical of the current control system on page 257. According to the college, it is not very effective to detect such fraud. The procedure is too complicated and it deprives the inspection services of the opportunity and power to intervene effectively. The effect of the government's measure is that the pre-invitation to the ONEM office is removed, so that the controllers can go directly to the unemployed person's home to ask the necessary questions on the spot and ask him/her permission to enter the inhabited areas. Authorization must be given in writing and prior to the visit. In the event of refusal to grant authorization, in exceptional cases, a warrant may be requested from the investigating judge. Therefore, there is no question of a breach of privacy because home checks will be carried out in accordance with the safeguards provided for in the Social Penal Code. The unemployed will not be arbitrarily bothered. Controllers will move only in the event of serious suspicions of abuse, for example when energy and water consumption will give clear signals. The aim is not to organise systematic home checks. The ONEM will only use an unannounced visit in the presence of indications of possible fraud. It would not be effective on the part of the ONEM to go to the doors of the unemployed for a check without reason, it is obvious! Colleagues, I am tackling social fraud. If we want to preserve social security, we must fight social fraud. My colleague, Elke Sleurs, does that for tax fraud. We do that together. If you read the action plan and the programme law correctly, you will see that we will strengthen cooperation. Social fraud is often the basis for tax fraud, Mrs Onkelinx.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-07-54-plenair-ip044x.u53	Secretary of State, I invite you to visit the Charleroi CPAS to see how this is going. Because asserting this kind of thing, without realizing on the spot, is relatively easy! You are, at the level of the ONEM, in an administrative procedure, which is similar to a judicial procedure. At the CPAS level, decisions were taken following a circular. We are in the context of a review of the granting of a right and not of a review of a sanction. The processes are different. It is not an inspector of the ONEM who presents himself, it is a social assistant and for home visits, we send a notice in advance. Come on, you're welcome! Your colleague, Mr Borsus, came and saw how it happened. Secondly, given this kind of situation, you are taking a symbolic step.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-07-54-plenair-ip044x.u54	This is not a symbolic measure, it is an effective measure!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-07-54-plenair-ip044x.u55	If you take a symbolic measure that is part of a real hunt for the unemployed, as part of a criminalisation of the unemployed, you would better do exactly the same in the fight against tax fraud. Tell me if you are going, tomorrow, under the threat of a warrant from the investigating judge, to ask a person who is the subject of a tax fraud investigation, to sign a document to have access to his bank safe, his financial accounts and all his assets!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-07-54-plenair-ip044x.u56	Mr Secretary of State, indeed, there would be much to say about comparing control methods in the various forms of combating fraud, but in this case, I can tell you that this is an advertising effect without effect. You will have no real reach, because the home visit, you cannot impose it! The investigating judges have already replied that they will exercise discretion and proportionality as to whether they grant such authorization. We will compile statistics at the end of the year. Otherwise, without the permission of the investigating judge, the answer is simple: the inspector is not open the door! If you think for a moment that you're going to force private entrances, you're wrong. What you're announcing is a swordshot in the water. It's ideological strength to make it look like you're fighting fraud for which you're using the wrong means. I'll tell you why you're doing it. You do it because you don't give the administration the human resources, not more to finance than in your department, to be able to carry out its work. That's why you're making ad effects!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-07-54-plenair-ip044x.u57	End of oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-07-54-plenair-ip044x.u58	The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. If there is no objection, I shall consider it adopted; in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be sent to the committees responsible. If there are no comments on this subject, I will take it into account as a matter of fact and refer the proposals back to the relevant committees in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 6 May 2015, I also propose that you consider: - the bill (Mr Ahmed Laaouej and Mr Luk Van Biesen, Mrs Sophie Wilmès, Mr Roel Deseyn, Mrs Veerle Wouters, Mr Dirk Van der Maelen, Mr Georges Gilkinet and Mr Benoît Dispa) to deal with the activities of the vulture funds, No. 1057/1;
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-07-54-plenair-ip044x.u59	- the legislative proposal (Els Van Hoof and Sonja Becq) amending the law of 6 July 2007 on the medically assisted reproduction and the destination of the remaining embryos and gametes, regulating the non-anonymous donation of gametes and promoting the right to identity for donor children, No. 1066/1;
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-07-54-plenair-ip044x.u60	- the legislative proposal (Mrs Muriel Gerkens and Mr Meyrem Almaci and Mr Georges Gilkinet, Mr Kristof Calvo and Mr Jean-Marc Nollet) on the creation of a legal form for companies with cooperative and participatory management, No. 1068/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-07-54-plenair-ip044x.u61	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 6 May 2015, I also propose that you take into account: - the bill (MM. Ahmed Laaouej and Luk Van Biesen, Sophie Wilmès, Roel Deseyn, Veerle Wouters, MM. Dirk Van der Maelen, Georges Gilkinet and Benoît Dispa) on combating the activities of vulture funds, No. 1057/1;
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-07-54-plenair-ip044x.u62	- the bill (Ms. Els Van Hoof and Sonja Becq) amending the Act of 6 July 2007 on medically assisted reproduction and the destination of supernumerary embryos and gametes, regulating the anonymous donation of gametes and establishing a right to identity for children from donations, No. 1066/1;
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-07-54-plenair-ip044x.u63	- the bill (Ms. Muriel Gerkens and Meyrem Almaci and MM. Georges Gilkinet, Kristof Calvo and Jean-Marc Nollet) for the creation of a statute for companies with cooperative and participatory management, No. 1068/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-07-54-plenair-ip044x.u64	Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. I also propose the legislative proposal (Mr Marcel Cheron, Mr Kristof Calvo, Mr Jean-Marc Nollet and Mr Stefaan Van Hecke) amending the law of 29 June 1983 on compulsory schooling in order to make the children subject to school from the age of 5 years, No. 1075/1, to be considered.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-07-54-plenair-ip044x.u65	I also propose that you take into consideration the bill (MM. Marcel Cheron, Kristof Calvo, Jean-Marc Nollet and Stefaan Van Hecke) amending the Act of 29 June 1983 concerning compulsory education, lowering the age of compulsory education to 5 years, No. 1075/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-07-54-plenair-ip044x.u66	Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-07-54-plenair-ip044x.u67	Mr President, yesterday we tabled a bill with about eight parties to tackle the activities of the Vulture Funds. We have an agreement in the Finance Committee to discuss this proposal by 20 May. That is why we are not asking for urgency, but we will deal with it because we have an agreement on this in committee. We hope that we will also have the confidence of the other parties to submit that bill to the plenary as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-07-54-plenair-ip044x.u68	If there is unanimity, the urgency must not be requested. It may be discussed by mutual agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-07-54-plenair-ip044x.u69	The government asked for urgent procedure under Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when the draft law on various energy provisions was submitted (No. 1046/1). The government requested urgency in accordance with Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when introducing the bill on various energy provisions (No. 1046/1). I would suggest that we speak on this question. I propose that we take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-07-54-plenair-ip044x.u70	These inquiries were developed at a public meeting of the Committee on the Economy, Scientific Policy, Education, National Scientific and Cultural Institutions, Middle Classes and Agriculture on 28 April 2015 These interviews were held at the public meeting of the Committee for Business, Science Policy, Education, the National Scientific and Cultural Institutions, the Middle Classes and Agriculture of 28 April 2015. Three motions were tabled (MOT No. 036/1): - a first motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mr. Jean-Marc Delizée; - a second motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr. Marcel Cheron; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr Johan Klaps. Three motions were tabled (MOT No. 036/1): - a first motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mr Jean-Marc Delizée; - a second motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mr Marcel Cheron; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr Johan Klaps. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-07-54-plenair-ip044x.u71	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there is great concern in the world of research and scientific and cultural institutions in our country. This world of research has wanted to express it in various forms, in particular through a large-scale petition. However, these sectors offer long-term solutions to contemporary challenges: the sustainable economy, democracy, health and well-being, and climate change, to take only a few emblematic examples. This government has started its action in a very bad way with ruthless linear savings measures that it has tried to partially correct by the budgetary adjustments that we will soon discover and which we will have the pleasure of discussing with the Secretary of State in a few weeks' time. What is going on today, ladies and gentlemen, is uncertainty, which is an insidious poison, which breaks trust, and which undermines the future in a crucial area for our country. I see that a number of colleagues are not interested in it, but it is essential. My inquiry, Mr. Chairman, was aimed at providing the Secretary of State with an opportunity to remove these uncertainties. His answer made it clear in his head, I would like to point out, what I consider to be a beginning of personal involvement in these matters. It's not enough, but it's a good start, Madam Secretary of State. I would like the majority today, who probably did not read the motion of recommendation and who, as usual, tabled a pure and simple motion, to take this opportunity to take this opportunity to give effect to this new involvement of the Secretary of State in a crucial area, by giving up the pure and simple motion. Indeed, my motion is so revolutionary, Mr. Chairman... What is it asking for? She asks the government – Mr.Van Quickenborne, you who are sometimes interested in science – to clarify the structure of the research landscape. We're still in uncertainty. Secondly, it proposes to define the concept of the empowerment of federal scientific institutions, which are still waiting for what this means. It also suggests that the activities and programmes of the so-called BELSPO should be maintained. We understand you didn't like the word, but do you like missions and programs? Finally, it calls for the best preparation, and in the interest of researchers, for the transition between the current phase and the next phase of the programme of the interuniversity centres of attraction. Madam Secretary of State, we ask you to stay with the Communities. Mr President, I shall finish because it is essential.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-07-54-plenair-ip044x.u72	Yes, but you have gone far beyond your speaking time.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-07-54-plenair-ip044x.u73	Mr President, I promise you that I will be briefer on other, less important issues. Ladies and gentlemen, I urge the majority to resume, to abandon this pure and simple motion which does not mean anything and to support this motion for a recommendation to show its commitment to research and to the cultural and scientific policy of Belgium. [[Applause on the opposition benches]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-07-54-plenair-ip044x.u74	Mr President, I will reread an excerpt from the petition signed by thousands of scientists, among them the greatest, about the future of BELSPO and the future of federal science policy. "BELSPO is also the only structure that combines Dutch-speaking, French-speaking and German-speaking expertise in basic research. Belgium's international scientific identity is therefore at risk. BELSPO's services support basic research activities in ten federal scientific institutions, but also in the universities of the three Communities of the country and most Belgian research centres. By dismantling BELSPO, the federal government is preparing the next step in dismantling federal science policy." Already, the sixth reform of the state has undermined entire parts of what the federal science policy was. I note that today some people are moved by this, even among those who voted for this reform of the state! Either, let us give their act of what they have wronged and acknowledge. But the fact of continuing in this direction, contrary to the will of the scientific community of our country, in the three Communities together, is more than an attack on intelligence; it is simply a renunciation of what is still the honour of this country!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-07-54-plenair-ip044x.u75	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, the motion tabled by my colleague, Mr Delizée, is a direct follow-up to the improbable replies of the Secretary of State in Committee on the Economy last week. Since the government agreement was known to us, we have been constantly questioning the government about its willingness to reform federal science policy. In this we echo thousands of scientists who have signed the Save BELSPO petition. Since the first day, we have been trying to understand what motivates the government to abolish a recognized administration, to weigh a successful space policy and to isolate scientific institutions from each other. After several months and many hours in committee, this is what one understands the intentions of the MR/N-VA government: it categorically refuses to take into account external and independent certifications due to the return rate of Belgian space investments or even the opinion of the industry and scientists concerned. What he does, on the other hand, is destroy an administration that would, in his eyes, be labelled too PS. As a reminder, this is an administration which, since its establishment in 2002, from 2002 to 2011, has been under the supervision of the MR and the Vld. The government also intends to trample on the independence of scientific institutions by choosing in their place the projects that deserve to be funded. Personally and as a former researcher, I find it deplorable and scandalous! What constitutes a reversal is not based on any study, expert opinion, quantitative demonstration, demonstrated structural problems, audit and, above all, no consultation! We are in a policy unfortunately based on prejudice and rumour. In committee, Mrs Sleurs was not very talkative about the reason for her programme, but what about her lack of an explanation of how? In this regard, the government knows what it wants to destroy, but still does not know what it wants to build.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-07-54-plenair-ip044x.u76	Are there any other explanations of vote? We shall then proceed to the vote on the simple motion. Mrs Winckel, I'm sorry, you can finish your speech.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-07-54-plenair-ip044x.u77	As Mr Cheron said, this is a really important problem. I think it is a pity that we are not measuring the extent of the problem. We are swimming in the midst of uncertainty in an area where projects extend over several years and where no medium- or long-term perspective is offered. But it is not too late, colleagues. This motion for a recommendation invites the government to review its copy and rewrite it with the individuals concerned. Don't despise a petition signed by some of our country's greatest brains, meet scientists, industrialists, experts and, above all, listen to them! All of this could have been done, Mrs. Sleurs, if you had not spent the taxpayers' money in recent months on an unjustified and unnecessary manhunt.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-07-54-plenair-ip044x.u78	Start of voting / Start of the vote. Did everyone vote and check their vote? / Did everyone vote and check his voice? End of voting / End of vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-07-54-plenair-ip044x.u79	Yes 79 Yes No. 51 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 130 Total The simple motion was adopted. As a result, motions for recommendation are overturned. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motions of recommendation lapse.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-07-54-plenair-ip044x.u80	This interview was held at the public meeting of the Justice Commission of 29 April 2015. This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Justice Committee on 29 April 2015. Two motions were tabled (MOT n° 037/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mr Hans Bonte; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Goedele Uyttersprot and Mr Jef Van den Bergh. Two motions were tabled (MOT nr. 037/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr. Hans Bonte; - a simple motion was tabled by Ms Goedele Uyttersprot and Mr Jef Van den Bergh. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put that motion to the vote. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Mr Bonte has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-07-54-plenair-ip044x.u81	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in this way, the majority is threatening to refer to the wastebasket a particularly acute and legitimate demand in my view. In this respect, I would just like to quote three sentences from our provincial governor and the new prosecutor of Halle-Vilvoorde: "The members of the provincial security consultation, the administrative authorities, the leaders of both local and federal police forces in Flemish Brabant, are particularly concerned. Concerned for the safety of the inhabitants of Halle-Vilvoorde, it is necessary to provide sufficient staff and resources for the much-needed federal police support to the public prosecutor and to the local police areas." And further: "A courthouse in Halle-Vilvoorde is necessary to prepare files, implement sanctions properly, guide people in their reintegration, including returned Syrian fighters, and guide victims in the maze of justice." Mr President, all the mayors, but also all the mayors of Halle-Vilvoorde, the prosecutor, the police leaders and the police chiefs, ask to get what all the other twenty-eight judicial districts of our country get for security reasons. I find the procedure particularly regrettable, all the more so because my fellow Members are asking the same questions from the majority. Mrs Becq could not happen to be here, but she has just tabled the same question. The text calls for a signal that the judicial district concerned will receive equivalent support compared to the twenty-eight others. That request is now referred to the garbage can on a whim. I pointed out in the discussion that the field workers, the security workers, the police need a signal. Colleagues, it is about the worst signal you can give when you press the button for the simple motion. I hope that we can all vote in favour of the other motion.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-07-54-plenair-ip044x.u82	Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check his voice? / Everyone has -Does he vote and check his vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 2) Yes 78 Yes No. 52 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 130 Total The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses. The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-07-54-plenair-ip044x.u83	This inquiry was developed in the public meeting of the Social Affairs Committee on 29 April 2015. This interview was held at the public meeting of the Social Affairs Committee on 29 April 2015. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 030/1): a motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms. Catherine Fonck; A simple motion was tabled by Messrs. Benoît Friart et Vincent Van Quickenborne. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 030/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mrs Catherine Fonck; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr Benoît Friart and Mr Vincent Van Quickenborne. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-07-54-plenair-ip044x.u84	Mr President, on 12 March, a unanimous agreement was reached between the social partners on the passive availability of the supplementary business unemployment scheme for restructuring companies and for unemployed people over the age of 60. While the unions and the bosses had drawn up a list of well-marked, balanced situations in line with reality, your government decided to turn it into a suitable availability. Of course, we understand that this government wanted to make it a symbol so that it could say that it had rejected part of the agreement of the social partners and thus bomb the torso. Ladies and gentlemen, two months later, and we still do not know what this adapted availability means. Therefore, and all the more so since you will apply this measure retroactively to people who have accepted the other formula of availability under social agreements, I have tabled a motion for a recommendation which transcribes the whole of the unanimous agreement of the social partners. If you follow the plain and simple motion, it will again be to reject it. Colleagues, it's up to you to see if you want to sweep it again.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-07-54-plenair-ip044x.u85	Start of voting / Start of the vote. Did everyone vote and check their vote? / Did everyone vote and check his voice? End of voting / End of vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-07-54-plenair-ip044x.u86	Yes 79 Yes No. 52 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 131 Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-07-54-plenair-ip044x.u87	This interview was held at the public meeting of the Committee for the Interior, General Affairs and Public Administration of 29 April 2015. This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Committee on the Interior, General Affairs and the Civil Service on 29 April 2015. Two motions were tabled (MOT n° 031/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mrs Barbara Pas; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Sabien Lahaye-Battheu and by Mr Conseil Degroote and Mr Franky Demon. Two motions were tabled (MOT nr. 031/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms Barbara Pas; - a simple motion was tabled by Ms Sabien Lahaye-Battheu and by Messrs. Conseil Degroote et Franky Demon. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check his voice? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 86 Yes No. [[42]] No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 131 Total The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses. The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-07-54-plenair-ip044x.u88	This interview was held at the public meeting of the Committee for the Interior, General Affairs and Public Administration of 29 April 2015. This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Committee on the Interior, General Affairs and the Civil Service on 29 April 2015. Two motions were tabled (MOT n° 033/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mrs Barbara Pas; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Sabien Lahaye-Battheu and by Mr Conseil Degroote, Mr Franky Demon and Mr Koen Metsu. Two motions were tabled (MOT nr. 033/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms Barbara Pas; - a simple motion was tabled by Ms Sabien Lahaye-Battheu and by Messrs. Conseil Degroote, Franky Demon et Koen Metsu. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check his voice? / Everyone has -Does he vote and check his vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 5) Yes 86 Yes No. [[42]] No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 131 Total The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses. The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-07-54-plenair-ip044x.u89	We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for the plenary sessions on Wednesday 13 May 2015. We must proceed to the approval of the agenda of the plenary meetings on Wednesday, 13 May 2015. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Wednesday 13 May 2015 at 10.30 a.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Wednesday 13 May 2015 at 10.30 a.m.
