ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-17-54-commissie-ic117x.u1	Only Mr Flahaux is present for the time being. The other authors will have to read the answer in the report.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-17-54-commissie-ic117x.u2	Mr President, Minister, four years after the beginning of the interventions in Syria, the situation of Syrian refugees is particularly worrying. In Lebanon – but this is also the case in Turkey and Jordan – they find themselves in villages that do not have the infrastructure to offer them a good reception without help. This is compounded by the fact that, in order to obtain the money needed to buy products sold to them at high prices, they compete with local artisans and workers by offering their services at a much lower cost, thereby endangering the survival of local companies, which are thus facing financial difficulties. This is reflected in the hostility of the Lebanese against them. This situation also exists in the other border countries, which host about four million Syrian refugees. However, Minister, the United Nations World Food Programme (WFP) announced, at the time of the tabling of my question, namely in December, a suspension of aid to Syrian refugees in Syria and Lebanon, owing to the lack of financial resources to provide the necessary assistance. This decision would further increase the plight of refugees. Approximately EUR 51 million is missing for WFP to continue its humanitarian action, which, in the light of what I have just described, represents an extreme emergency in a country at war and another one in deep tension. Mr Minister, at this time of fiscal recovery for Europeans, the financial resources are limited. It would seem incomprehensible, however, that nations that mobilize military means that are necessary but also costly to fight against what I call the "Islamic Nazis" do not manage, together with their other allies, whether or not they participate in the war effort, to raise the sum that allows those they have come to save from barbarism to survive in good conditions until they can safely return home, at the end of Syrian conflicts. As far as Europe is concerned, is it possible to request, once again, ECHO, the European Commission's humanitarian aid and civil protection service? He conducted a mission to assess the needs of refugees. In addition, it has invested in aid to Syrian refugees to the tune of more than EUR 1.5 billion, to which has already been added the sum of EUR 1.3 billion in direct contributions from the States of the European Union. Does ECHO still have the means to be mobilised to increase its contribution to WFP? In the face of this dramatic and explosive situation, how do you intend to act as a representative of Belgium, particularly to the international community, to respond to the growing distress of Syrian refugees and their host populations?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-17-54-commissie-ic117x.u3	Mr President, my colleague, Belgium has financed humanitarian aid for almost EUR 22.4 million since the beginning of the Syrian crisis in 2012. In 2013, Belgium funded specific UNHCR activities for the protection and assistance of Syrian refugees at Al Zaatari Camp in Jordan for a million euros. This funding was intended to improve the living conditions and security of Syrian refugees staying in the camps. I can already tell you that the aid promised was paid out in full, including the additional EUR 2 million to the International Committee of the Red Cross. I am sorry to say that up to now I only have detailed information on the financing of the International Red Cross. The funding of EUR 2 million was granted for a period of one year on the Humanitarian Projects budget line. The activities of the International Red Cross cover the entire Lebanese territory and focus mainly on Syrian refugees, Syrian-Palestinian refugees and Lebanese returning, on fleeing the conflict in Syria, and on improving conditions in Lebanese reception communities which are succumbing to the mass influx of refugees. We were also able to finance, in 2012 and 2013, from the budget of preventive diplomacy, medical assistance and prefabricated schools for Syrian refugee camps in Turkey. An additional €3 million call for projects was launched with NGOs. This additional funding of EUR 3 million is intended to alleviate the needs in Syria and in neighbouring Jordan, Lebanon and Turkey. My administration will analyse the project proposals and examine whether they are eligible for financial support. Finally, I am examining the possibility of financing three flexible humanitarian funds over two years, in 2015 and 2016, in Syria, Lebanon and Jordan for a total amount of EUR 11 million. With this additional funding of EUR 14 million, the total Belgian contribution to the Syrian refugee crisis could reach EUR 36.4 million. If Belgium wishes to allocate its funding to the most urgent needs in Syria, the regional approach has never been forgotten and humanitarian funding has been provided in 2012 for humanitarian operations targeting the countries of the region affected by this crisis. For example, support activities for host communities in Jordan and Lebanon or support for agricultural recovery in Syria aimed at reducing people's dependence on food aid have been financed, both through NGOs and international organisations. With regard to the situation of the Yezidis in Iraq, I share your view that we must help the minorities who are victims of the atrocities in Daesh and that our action cannot be just military. Indeed, the fight against Daesh must be global. Belgium takes its responsibilities in this global struggle. Within the framework of the anti-Daesh coalition, working groups have been established. Belgium has decided to become an active member of three of these groups: the military action group, the one that coordinates actions against jihadists, and the one that aims to develop a counter-ideological strategy. In addition, fighting against Daesh and helping minorities also means taking action to address the root causes of the crisis in Iraq. Belgium is contributing to this by actively supporting the EU's recently developed overall strategy, which will form part of the Council conclusions to be proposed this month to the EU Foreign Affairs Council. The United Nations has developed a 2014-2015 strategic response plan for Iraq. This plan enables the various humanitarian organizations on the ground to work together on the humanitarian response so that it is as effective and timely as possible. This plan estimates the need at $2.2 billion. To date, total donor contributions, as well as firm pledges or pledges, amount to almost $900 million. The current humanitarian priorities are to urgently assist the most vulnerable with the provision of protection, shelter and food aid. Of particular concern are 1.9 million internally displaced persons, 1.5 million people living in host communities and 1.7 million Iraqis living in areas directly affected by the conflict. Minorities are among these most vulnerable groups and are directly targeted by this plan. With regard to humanitarian financing, the Minister for Development Cooperation had decided to finance the humanitarian operations of the World Food Programme and the International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC) to the tune of 2 million per organization. This assistance will provide food assistance, basic livelihood support and access to safe drinking water and health care for people in need. It should be noted that the ICRC intervenes in the regions most affected by violence in the country. It is working to raise awareness among the various armed groups of respect for international humanitarian law and its consequences for the civilian population. I answered all the questions, which is, I imagine, the easiest.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-17-54-commissie-ic117x.u4	Minister, thank you for your very comprehensive answer. Unfortunately, without solutions for the causes of this situation, the needs will still be quite significant. I think that this year there will be a Forum on this issue. I have no doubt, in any case, on the basis of what you have mentioned, that Belgium will make its important contribution, either via Europe or directly. Another point I think is important. These are acts of violence, which undermine cohabitation with refugees. We must help to pacify the situation. Life is already not very pleasant for refugees, but if the local populations attack them, it is very serious. I'm sure you'll be sensitive to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-17-54-commissie-ic117x.u5	Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Van Hoof has reported her arrival. I propose that Mrs Lalieux should now speak for her question, after which Mrs Van Hoof will be present to ask her question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-17-54-commissie-ic117x.u6	Mr President, Minister, I have asked your predecessors several times about the Belgian contribution to the Global Fund to Fight AIDS and Malaria, the TBC. As a reminder, Belgium contributed almost EUR 19 million in 2014 and 2015 to this fund, which manages a quarter of the aid devoted to this fight, a crucial struggle for my group as you know. As part of the 2017-2019 funding plan for this fund, I would like to ask you, Minister, the following questions. What about the Belgian contribution to the Global Fund for 2016 and subsequent years? What do you think of Belgian cooperation in the long term in the fight against these diseases and more specifically in the fight against AIDS? Finally, can you tell us more about the future initiatives and projects that will be carried out under this international fund?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-17-54-commissie-ic117x.u7	Mr President, dear colleague, thank you for your question. The fight against major endemic diseases, including AIDS, deserves special attention and is rightly specified in the Development Cooperation Act 2013. In the tradition of our cooperation, we believe that these endemics are best addressed by high-quality integrated health systems, benefiting from the trust of local communities. To this end, Belgian Development Cooperation uses an approach of complementarity between bilateral governmental, non-governmental and international cooperation. As part of this cooperation with international organizations, we are focusing on the Global Fund for its operational activities: $19 million in 2014; UNAIDS for its advocacy and coordination activities of $4.4 million in 2014; and WHO for its normative and national capacity-building activities. The Global Fund is therefore taking a leading role for the following two reasons. First, the Global Fund was created specifically to increase resources to combat three of the world's most devastating diseases and to direct those resources to the most needy regions. It mobilizes and invests nearly $4 billion annually in support of programmes in more than 140 countries. The Global Fund's share of international support in the fight against tuberculosis is 82 per cent, against malaria by 50 per cent, against HIV/AIDS by 21 per cent. The organization has made a clear contribution to the fight against these three diseases. Secondly, the forces of the organization are: 1° important results; 2. the inclusion of civil society, the private sector and people affected by diseases; 3. the periodic organization of evaluation of proposals by an independent technical committee; 4° transparent and accountable operation; 5° an effective way of working in order to achieve maximum impact with the partners. Belgium will continue to support the Global Fund in 2015 up to EUR 19 million, while at the same time seeking greater coherence between the Global Fund, UNAIDS and WHO in order to maximize the effectiveness of international efforts. The major challenge is to operationalize the integration of sexual and reproductive health and the fight against HIV/AIDS into the health system at the country level, while maintaining the good operational results of vertical initiatives. In the 2012-2016 Strategic Plan, the Global Fund proposes five strategic objectives. 1. Investing more strategically in countries, inter alia, by financing projects on the basis of national strategies and using national systems. The Fund also intends to increase its impact on strengthening health systems and to improve health services for mothers and children. 2. Install a more flexible and effective funding model. 3. Increase the chances of success of financial projects on the basis of the impact, quality and efficiency of interventions. 4. Promote and protect human rights. 5. Increase predictability and stability of financial resources and attract more financial resources through the use of existing resources and the search for new donors. These five objectives are certainly consistent with the strength of Belgian cooperation in general and our support for health in particular.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-17-54-commissie-ic117x.u8	Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister for his very long reply, but which is drowning the fish! Minister, I did not ask you for your opinion on the effectiveness and efficiency of this fund, which I believe is fundamental and has always been essential for development cooperation. I understand that there is a need to increase cohesion, coherence and maximize efficiency, but they are there. I was aware of the $19 million allocated for 2014-15, so repeating what I'm saying in my question is not interesting. I asked you what it would be for 2017-2019: will Belgium commit itself to this? Will it maintain its level of investment? You did not answer that question at all. Therefore, I am disappointed and will return to you later.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-17-54-commissie-ic117x.u9	You have the right to be disappointed! In my policy note, I made it clear that health care, AIDS and other infectious diseases are a priority for us. We cannot say that the government is not in a position to do so! The amounts for 2017 to 2019 are not yet decided. We're in 2015 and I can't answer you about it, since I don't know! It cannot be said, however, that I am not taking a position on the importance of this subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-17-54-commissie-ic117x.u10	Minister, I didn't say you didn't take a stand. I know that you are expressing your support for the fight against AIDS and for all this health problem. I am not questioning this at all. However, a struggle without money in these countries is just words. Minister, I would like to be reassured about the post-2016 plans. So I'll come back to you quite quickly compared to the 2016 to 2019 plans.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-17-54-commissie-ic117x.u11	Mr Minister, my question is a little dated. In the meantime, progress has already been made, but I will ask my question anyway. You can then probably give me more up-to-date information. We have almost reached the end of 15 years of Millennium Goals. It is high time to draw up a bilan, which you have probably already made, on the new accents to be placed in the future. You have already mentioned this in connection with the discussion of the policy paper and the policy letter. However, this issue is becoming more and more topical, as we will conclude in September with new strategic objectives. First of all, what is the bilan that can be delivered? Many of the Millennium Goals have been met, but a number of objectives have not been achieved. Is there any diversification for Belgium in contributing to this? Do we see that our projects have had more impact in the context of the Millennium Development Goals? Secondly, in Monterrey, a standard of 0,7 % was agreed by 2010. We are making efforts to achieve this, but we all know that we are not going to make it. We are at about 0.4% today. Do you think it makes sense to return this percentage to Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs)? If so, what steps can our country take? Thirdly, your policy paper and policy letter also emphasizes the issue of 'poverty and women'. Working on the poverty of women also means working on the prosperity and well-being of a population. What additional efforts will you make in this area, in addition to the efforts already made? The negotiations on the new objectives will also have to take greater account of the new development agenda, which focuses more on climate, increasing inequality and social protection. To what extent have you put the emphasis on this in the ongoing negotiations? Financial efforts are being made in relation to the climate.What additional climate financing can you see besides the efforts already being made today?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-17-54-commissie-ic117x.u12	Mr De Vriendt has been excused for illness.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-17-54-commissie-ic117x.u13	Minister, Mrs Van Hoof said that we are in the last straight line for the Millennium Goals. A number of steps have been taken forward, but we will certainly not be able to achieve a number of things. With the post-2015 agenda and the SDGs in mind, the UN says that account must be taken of the fact that the agenda of the current Millennium Goals will still have to be completed. Is there any consensus on what targets will be set in the SDGs? In what way do you think the proposed policy is complementary to the SDGs? How did you take it into account in your multiannual budget? What do you understand under the concepts of universality and global partnership, which are put forward in the SDGs? How will this be reflected in your policy? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-17-54-commissie-ic117x.u14	Mr President, Minister, on 11 March 2015, you took part in a conference with students from the Faculty of Law of the University of Leuven on Belgian priorities for the agenda of the UN's Post-2015 Agenda for Development and the future Sustainable Development Goals. Minister, what are the priorities for the Sustainable Development Goals and the Millennium Development Goals post-2015? We have not yet had the privilege of hearing you on these issues. What follow-up do you intend to give to the resolution on sexual and reproductive health and rights within the framework of the post-2015 Millennium Development Goals, adopted by the House under the previous legislature, which set the Belgian position in these crucial debates? The resolution stressed the importance of a participatory approach to parliament and civil society. How do you intend to involve Parliament and civil society in the ongoing work, within the framework of the Post-2015 Agenda and the Sustainable Development Goals? What is your view on the objectives that are already proposed and on the indicators that are currently being discussed? It seems to me essential that we can discuss these elements. I am returning from New York, where I participated in the 59th session of the Commission on the Status of Women. I have been particularly concerned about the gender issue and the problem of the girl child and adolescent girls who are too little taken into account in the goals formulated, yet who are the first victims of poverty and conflict situations. On this specific element, what position are you going to defend?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-17-54-commissie-ic117x.u15	Mr President, I shall begin with the achievement of the Millennium Development Goals and their integration into Belgian development policy. I would like to take this opportunity to share with you a detailed analysis document on the overall achievements of the Millennium Development Goals, drawn up by my administration. I'll get it to you at the end of the question. This shows that the MDGs have a lot of important achievements, but at the same time not all of them have been achieved, and certainly not all of them in the world. From the outset, the Millennium Development Goals were the guiding principles of Belgian development cooperation policy. The integration of the MDGs into Belgian development cooperation is also part of a comprehensive report due to the DGD. This was done from 2005 to 2009, in implementation of the Law of 14 June 2005 and on the basis of exhaustive MDG reports delivered to Parliament. From 2010 onwards, the MDG report was included in the DGD's annual reports, detailing a number of specific Millennium Goals. The 2014 Annual Report is still in preparation and will discuss in detail the MDG 3, promoting gender equality and strengthening the position of women, MDG 4 and 5, reducing child mortality and improving mother's health. The 2013 Annual Report went deeper into MDG 1, fighting extreme poverty and hunger, and making MDG 2 primary education accessible to all. The 2012 Annual Report told us more about MDG 6, fighting HIV, AIDS, malaria and other diseases, MDG 7, ensuring a sustainable environment and MDG 8, creating a global partnership for development. With regard to MDG 1, the Belgian focus was mainly on agriculture and food security, which is one of the four priority sectors of Belgian development cooperation. All interventions by DGD in the education sector have been in line with MDG 2 since 2002. Since 2002, our country has been financing the Global Partnership for Education and Belgium, together with the Netherlands, Norway and Italy, has been at the basis of a trust fund that enables interventions from the GPE. In the meantime, this fund has raised more than EUR 2.2 billion and supports primary education in 57 countries. Efforts on MDG 3 focused, inter alia, on sexual and reproductive health, the fight against domestic violence through rights education and microfinance programmes to develop women's savings and credit facilities. With regard to MDGs 4 and 5, the focus was on supporting health systems whose main users are mothers and children. In the case of MDG 6, the fight against AIDS was a priority, both through health programmes, support for education, agriculture and rural development and through infrastructure programmes in partner countries. MDG 7 focused on sustainable forest management and biodiversity protection in the Democratic Republic of Congo, while the access to water and sanitation in Ecuador received a lot of attention. For the implementation of MDG 8, particular attention was paid to the objective of making essential medicines available and affordable in developing countries, in cooperation with the pharmaceutical sector. As regards the integration of the Millennium Development Goals as a whole, there is no independent Belgian evaluation available. However, in recent years, the services of the Special Evaluator have examined many of the Belgian Development Cooperation interventions, including an analysis of the extent to which these interventions have contributed to the achievement of the Millennium Development Goals. Recently, contributions to MDG 7 have been included. The evaluations of a number of sectoral policy papers also contain information relevant to the successful or unsuccessful integration of MDGs into Belgian development cooperation. A second topic, the Sustainable Development Goals and the Belgian accents in the debate on post-2015. The preparations for the post-2015 agenda are the subject of extensive consultations between both federal and federated entities, and on occasion also with the local authorities concerned. This is done both at official and policy level, where development cooperation and foreign affairs do not have a monopoly on the agenda. In particular, it is the Interministerial Committee for Sustainable Development which provides coordinated opinions on Belgian positions. These positions are formalised in a format CoorMulti, the official mechanism for consolidating Belgian positions in this type of negotiations at UN level. There are extensive contacts between the government, the relevant administrations and civil society. The opinions of the Federal Council for Sustainable Development also brought an important input to the Belgian position determination. I asked the Federal Council to give priority to the post-2015 agenda in its work this year too. The participatory approach is therefore an essential element of the preparation of the post-2015 agenda. For European decision-making, the DGE Coordination takes place within the framework of the Belgian institutional mechanism responsible for this. The Belgian accents in this debate were and are mainly placed on inequalities and on the theme of social protection. There is a clear Belgian consensus that these two aspects are crucial for achieving the MDGs that have not yet been achieved. Principles such as a universal agenda, a rights approach, the ambition to leave no one behind and the pursuit of a transversal nature for environmental and new objectives are of course essential. Moreover, I believe that both the report of the Open Ended Working Group and the UN Secretary Ban Ki-moon's synthesis report provide very good and balanced input to the forthcoming negotiations. There is a growing consensus that we are working towards seventeen objectives, with 169 defined measurement points so far. From the point of view of development cooperation, I have put forward the following priorities. Firstly, inclusive and sustainable economic growth. That is also one of the elements that I have put forward in my general policy paper. Secondly, sexual and reproductive health rights. Thirdly, a multilateral system that is less fragmented and tailored to the new objectives. Finally, making full use of the new opportunities offered by digitisation and technology. In a third point, I will reply on the means. Only a handful of EU Member States achieve the 0,7% standard. Our country is not one of them. The government agreement states that Belgium will make efforts to achieve this standard as far as possible in budgetary terms. At the same time, I should like to make it clear that, as a result of the economic crisis and the necessary budgetary savings policy, there is no provision for an increase in the resources for development cooperation in the short term. On the contrary, in 2015 and 2016, my department will face savings of EUR 160 million that will reach 250 million in 2019. That is the context within which we are working. In such a context, it is more important than ever to use our instruments as efficiently as possible, with the maximum possible impact on the development of developing countries. As the post-2015 debate also shows, development is about much more than aid, budgets and percentages. Our policies must be judged on the impact of our development aid, rather than on the scale of our expenditure. However, it would be a mistake to narrow the entire SDG agenda to a purely debate on the scope of ODA. It is about so much more: the mobilisation of own tax revenues, foreign investment, trade, remittances and so on. In the past, development aid alone has not brought any country out of poverty. That will not happen in the future either. Above all, we must ensure that the ODA acts as a lever for development. In addition, the size of the budget is not everything, it may not even be the most important. The impact and results are at least as important. Policy coherence in favour of development will therefore become more central than ever. My predecessor has already set up a number of institutional mechanisms, including the interdepartmental Policy Coherence Commission, an Advisory Council and an NGO platform. A new cell was also established within the DGD to support the new ambition for increased policy coherence. In this light, I have invited all Belgian actors to a thorough reflection on the way forward. In a rapidly changing world, it is important that all Belgian development cooperation is sufficiently reformed to remain sufficiently relevant and effective in the future development framework. With regard to women and the issue of inequality, it goes without saying that gender issues are fundamental to an effective development policy. I refer in this respect to the hearing on my policy statement, which took place in this House in November last year, with particular attention being paid to this issue. The particular attention I would like to pay in the post-2015 debate to the issue of growing inequality and to sexual and reproductive health rights is equally in the great importance I attach to gender issues. The issue of climate, the environmental dimension and, in particular, climate change, must be given a crucial place in the post-2015 framework, and I do not think it should be a matter of making a choice between development and poverty reduction, on the one hand, and safeguarding the environment, on the other. This also applies to one aspect of environmental sustainability: the budgetary and financial picture. Modern development policies must, by definition, be environmentally conscious and modern climate policies must, by definition, be development-conscious. The two must be tackled in an integrated way. The fact that this possibility exists and above all offers opportunities has recently been demonstrated in the new climate-economic report. Global warming must be regarded as a root cause of underdevelopment. Belgian development cooperation will therefore continue to pay particular attention to development-relevant climate finance. I am, of course, dependent on the chairman and the members of this committee for further discussion on this subject. If we want to have a more focused discussion on the SDGs, which is a very important subject, then I am absolutely prepared to devote a moment to it by September.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-17-54-commissie-ic117x.u16	I want to respond directly to what the Minister said. We will start that soon. During June we will have the opportunity to discuss this in depth. I now give the floor to Mrs Van Hoof for her reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-17-54-commissie-ic117x.u17	Of course, Minister, we are also discussing the Minister's offer. We will provide a momentum. In fact, a resolution was adopted in the Flemish Parliament which even evolved towards a State-General on the Millennium Development Goals. The federal government is still the largest funder of development cooperation. In this sense, we deserve to create an even bigger forum on this issue. I would therefore urge not only that we discuss it in Parliament, but that we debate it more widely. I do not recall the moment in Parliament when senior citizens came to argue for the Millennium Development Goals and their implementation. You probably also got a tattoo, which is hard to remove. So the theme lives hugely and will live even stronger in the run-up to September than today. So the momentum is present to organize something around here. I would also urge, on the basis of the resolution adopted in the Flemish Parliament, that a larger forum be devoted at Belgian level to the Millennium Development Goals. In any case, I would like to thank you for your detailed reply and look forward to taking note of the evaluation in the document. I would like to comment on the accents that you yourself have put forward. There were certain accents that appear to be recognizable, given the discussions in Parliament. There are also a number of new accents in the debate, such as digitalisation, which is an interesting element called "the multilateral aspect' and the fragmentation. How do you get these two additional data? Why are you moving away from another element that you mentioned during the discussions, namely social protection and social security, building up social opponents and decent work? I thought this was one of the anchor points that were put forward in the past, especially from civil society. How do you deal with that? Why does that aspect fall out of the four accents? An important element are sexual and reproductive rights. I cannot emphasise to what extent this is being dealt with strongly enough. The colleague who went to New York also knows that the coalition is getting bigger and bigger to undermine this. I took part in the World Conference on Women in Beijing 20 years ago. It was very clear at the time that the coalition was very small. Over and over again, in 2005 and 2015, it is noted that the coalition is growing to undermine what is a fundamental right of women to organise their lives. I have recently been on a mission to Gabon in the context of the problem of child marriages. It is very striking how the element of sexual rights is still taboo and that the free provision of contraception is not yet negotiable, even among African Members of Parliament. There is no proper legislation on sexual rights and it can only be married and have sexual relations from the age of 18. There is legislation on this in Europe, but not in Gabon. When someone becomes pregnant, one must marry there, as was the case with us in the past. These are archaic matters, especially when we talk today about digitisation and technology. I think we should be very concerned about these sexual and reproductive rights, given what is happening today in New York and the echoes we receive from African countries, such as Sudan, where there is opposition to these rights. That was not the case in the past. In 1995, this was much more open than today. I can only stress that you must pay a great deal of attention to this.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-17-54-commissie-ic117x.u18	Mr President, Minister, it is good to hear that you are opening up to sit together around the SDGs in the future and have a debate on this. I am also looking forward to the analysis of the MDGs you have made. I believe that consultation with all actors is particularly important, but also with the different levels, including the interministerial committee. We are certainly asking for this.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-17-54-commissie-ic117x.u19	Minister, like my colleague, I would like to stress this issue. I am pleased that you recalled that sexual and reproductive health is a priority for you. We must all pay attention to it. Indeed, in New York, I found that there was a powerful front that wanted this issue to recede. That is why it is important for Europe in general and Belgium in particular to try to stop any movement refusing these rights. It's 2015. However, some want to challenge women's rights. The rights of girls and boys are also discussed. My attention has been drawn to the issue of adolescent girls, who are not part of either group. Therefore, they are not sufficiently taken into account. I am thinking of the problem of forced and early marriages. Some consider that a 15-year-old girl is no longer a little girl, but is already a woman and can, therefore, be married without any difficulty. We must therefore deal with this issue in a very precise way. For the rest, the debate on the Millennium Development Goals has made good progress. I would like to know your position on the seventeen objectives. Indeed, some would like to challenge them. I fear that sexual and reproductive health issues will be called into question. How does Belgium position itself in this respect? Similarly, the question of indicators seems to me to be of paramount importance. Indeed, the indicators that will be chosen will also determine how to approach this issue. Finally, I understand that there are a whole series of institutional bodies that are being mobilised within the framework of this issue. That is very good, but it seems to me essential that we can have an exchange of views on what is being discussed in these bodies and that we can have a feedback on what is being decided in that so that there is an elevator game between our parliament and what is going on in these institutional chambers to which we are not necessarily invited. That, Minister, was what I wanted to add to the answers you gave us.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-17-54-commissie-ic117x.u20	Mr President, if I may, I would like to respond to a few points. Mrs Van Hoof, I repeat one of the elements in my reply. The Belgian accents in the debate were and are mainly placed on inequalities and on the theme of social protection. So I am putting that forward, as was stated in my policy statement. The list that I made afterwards and which includes digitisation includes additional themes that I move forward. Why did I put the UN Fit for Purpose forward there? That is because, in my view, there is a problem today in terms of the growth of UN structures, where sometimes the question can be asked as to whether this still fits in with what we really need to do. I added digitalization and technology to the list because, in my view, they are today elements that offer enormous opportunities for people to develop their abilities. In part, they also pose a threat to human rights. Our country has indeed included this theme. The big mistake would be if we did not take that issue with us today. I share your concern about sexual and reproductive rights. You are talking about a number of African countries. In Europe too, there is an island that is absolutely not helping in this context. The issue is therefore absolutely not clear. Under the current strategy, we are moving from the discussion of the seventeen objectives to the discussion of the one hundred and sixty-nine indicators. We are trying to consolidate what is already in the 17 objectives. If we reopen the debates, for example on sexual and reproductive rights, we could lose things that are already acquired! Of the one hundred and sixty-nine indicators, about 40 are difficult to measure or are not really relevant. Some say that having seventeen goals does not simplify things. There were eight before. The perspective is different. The Millennium Development Goals were rather North-South focused, while Sustainable Development Goals included everyone. The ability to reduce global development priorities from one hundred and four countries to seventeen goals may not be so bad! But it is true that what we are going to explain will be much more important than the seventeen objectives and the one hundred and sixty-nine indicators; indeed, it will be quite complicated to make it clear exactly what this is all about.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-17-54-commissie-ic117x.u21	I propose that we continue this debate in depth and breadth in the course of June, there is enough substance to discuss. I agree with Mr Van Hoof that this deserves special treatment. I also believe that after that debate we should set up a follow-up system, but that is a matter for discussion for later.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-17-54-commissie-ic117x.u22	Mr Pehlivan is ill and has had her questions converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-17-54-commissie-ic117x.u23	Mr President, Mr Luykx asks whether it is possible to do so. 1879 to be postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-17-54-commissie-ic117x.u24	That's good. We'll postpone them.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-17-54-commissie-ic117x.u25	Mr President, Mr Minister, as we know, the United Nations agency responsible for assisting the Palestinians, UNRWA, plays an important role in emergency aid and reconstruction in the Gaza Strip. This territory was devastated by the summer 2014 war, during which nearly 2,100 people, mostly civilians, were killed on the Palestinian side. Since this murderous summer, this territory is still in ruins in some neighbourhoods or villages. It is in this context that the donors' conference held in Cairo on 12 October has raised $5.4 billion in pledges which, alas, remain largely dead letter to date, pushing UNRWA director Robert Turner to announce that the United Nations agency is likely to have to put an end to some of its aid to refugees if the money does not arrive urgently. At the Belgian level, traditionally, the Minister for Cooperation validates, at the beginning of the year, funding frameworks. This makes it possible to decide to what extent the budget lines will be distributed between the types of humanitarian actors and crisis areas. I would therefore like to ask you, Minister, the following questions. Have you ever asked the administration to write such frameworks? Otherwise, is that your intention? Do you intend to extend the commitments of your predecessors regarding UNRWA? What is Belgium's political and budgetary commitment to humanitarian aid in the Palestinian territories? Finally, what is the assessment of the situation on the ground in terms of your skills?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-17-54-commissie-ic117x.u26	Mr President, dear colleague, thank you for your question. As regards the drafting and approval of the funding frameworks for Belgian humanitarian aid, as well as the extension of the commitments made by Belgium with regard to the financing of UNRWA in 2015, as in previous years, they were established by my administration to optimize the distribution of budgetary resources among the various humanitarian actors recognized by Belgium and receiving its financial support. Earlier this year, I approved the framework for the allocation of funding as a contribution to the general resources of humanitarian organisations for 2015-2017. This distribution provides for the financing of UNRWA's general resources to the tune of €6,250,000 in 2015, which is expected to be the same in 2016 and 2017, thus de facto extending the commitments made by my predecessors with regard to financial support for this organization. With regard to the assessment of the situation on the ground, on 27 January, UNRWA announced that it had been forced to suspend its cash assistance programme in Gaza, designed to enable tens of thousands of people to undertake repairs to damaged or destroyed homes, as well as to provide subsidies for the rental of housing for the homeless. More than 96,000 Palestinian refugee homes were damaged or destroyed during last summer's conflict. The total funding required for these emergency rehabilitations is estimated at $720 million. To date, UNRWA has received only $135 million in pledges, representing a shortfall of $585 million. While some of the funds remain available to begin the reconstruction of completely destroyed houses, the Agency has exhausted all funds to support repairs and rental subsidies. However, thanks to its contribution, Belgium was fulfilling its commitments and should be able to make a useful contribution that could alleviate the current financial problems of UNRWA.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-17-54-commissie-ic117x.u27	Minister, thank you for your answer. I am pleased to hear that Belgium is keeping its promises and funding this United Nations agency. I do not need to stress the seriousness of the situation on the spot; it is obviously a disaster! I would also like to ask you, together with your colleague, Mr Reynders, to make every effort to make sure that everyone respects their commitments and that we can actually contribute to the reconstruction of the Gaza Strip. I also hope that the result of today's election will facilitate our work on the spot.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-17-54-commissie-ic117x.u28	Mr President, Minister, in order to better integrate young people into society, one of the opportunities for us is the civic service through which young people voluntarily engage in civic, social or cultural missions. It is in this context that the SCI, like other organisations, offers various activities that enable young volunteers to develop their capacities for reflection and citizen engagement. The SCI is thus recognised by the DGD as an NGO for development education, as well as as as a youth organisation by the Wallonia-Brussels Federation. Minister, what assessment do you make of this international civilian service in relation to the missions of cooperation and the logic of international solidarity? What budget will it be allocated to this international civilian service in the years to come? Are new initiatives in this area planned? Are synergies with other government departments such as Foreign Affairs or Defence under consideration or possible?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-17-54-commissie-ic117x.u29	Mr President, dear colleague, thank you for your very interesting question. Civic services should not be confused with the NGO Civil Service International (SCI). These are two different things. The SCI, an international project, is a youth NGO. It is the Belgian branch of the SCI, an international pacifist movement, born in 1920 in the aftermath of the First World War. During the 20th century, the SCI developed by creating national branches all over the world, and by multiplying its fields of action: - struggle for the recognition of conscientious objection; - replacing military service with international civilian service; - organization of international volunteer projects; - exchange of volunteers between the West and the East during the Cold War; - the struggle for a peaceful and nuclear-free world; - financing of projects in the southern and developing countries. Today, SCI is present in around 100 countries and offers volunteer projects in a wide variety of fields. It is also responsible for training and awareness-raising. In Belgium, SCI has existed since 1947. A French-speaking branch and a Dutch-speaking branch - the Vrijwillige Internationale Actie (VIA) - emerged in 1974, following the federalization of the state. SCI Belgium was approved as an NGO by the Directorate-General for Development Cooperation and Humanitarian Aid (DGD) in 1976. There is no specific accreditation as a development education NGO. The core mission of the SCI is development education. The co-financing of Belgian cooperation is entirely intended for this mission, which is an integral part of that of development cooperation. Indeed, in accordance with the strategic note on education for development, Belgian cooperation aims to help train responsible citizens, capable of taking informed positions on major global issues and international solidarity, but also aware of their ability to influence change towards a more just world. Belgian Development Cooperation wants to support citizen mobilization for equitable North-South relations. The programmes of NGOs are evaluated ex ante by the administration, according to rigorous procedures. The 2011-2013 programme of the SCI NGO had received a "good" final mention as a general opinion, with full acceptance of the proposed programme. At the time of the evaluation of this programme, the administration had found that the objectives set had been largely achieved in quantitative terms. The 2014-2016 programme of the SCI NGO, subject to the approval of the DGD, had also been considered "good" as a whole, with full acceptance as a final decision. Belgian Development Cooperation has recently granted SCI a grant to finance its 2014-2016 programme, entitled "Citizenship and solidarity", whose objectives are: - mobilising young people and young adults in education, awareness-raising and solidarity for a social exchange for a more supportive society; - strengthening the actors in formal and informal education to integrate or improve global citizenship education in their educational practices. This budget amounts to EUR 193 117 for 2014, EUR 198 143 for 2015 and EUR 205 640 for 2016. Funding from 2017 onwards depends on an approval procedure that is in progress. As far as your last question is concerned, to our knowledge, these synergies are not being studied. They are possible at the initiative of the NGO, since the right of initiative is guaranteed by law to NGOs.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-17-54-commissie-ic117x.u30	Mr President, I thank the Minister for his detailed answer and the information that has been provided to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-17-54-commissie-ic117x.u31	Mr President, Minister, between 17 and 24 January, I took part in a mission organised by Plan Belgium in Cambodia. The aim was, on the one hand, to raise awareness of the situation of education in that country and, on the other hand, to present to us the educational projects implemented by Plan Belgique and Plan Cambodge. As part of this mission, I was able to see that, unfortunately, the local needs for improving education remained enormous, although real progress could be noted. Minister, what is your political and budgetary importance to the education sector? I am thinking in particular of the education of young girls and adolescents. Indeed, it is in adolescence that a large part of them leave the school system. What are the organizations and projects supported by our country in this regard? Is Cambodia affected by this aid?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-17-54-commissie-ic117x.u32	Mrs Grovonius, I have the impression that you have often gone abroad. That's a good thing! At the political level, education is at the heart of the two strategic axes of Belgian Development Cooperation: a rights-based approach and sustainable and inclusive economic growth. Support for education is thus one of the themes on which the Government relies to ensure human and social development. This is one of the four clusters, which is at the centre of Belgian development cooperation's attention. More emphasis will now be placed on the quality of education. Financially, in 2013, support for the out-of-pocket education sector accounted for 8% of DG Development's support – more than €92 million. Recognizing that the school enrolment of girls has a positive impact on economic, social and human development, the Belgian Cooperation pays particular attention to the implementation of policies and interventions that ensure equality between girls and boys in access to education. She was also convinced that school was the best remedy for girls against population explosion, early marriage and discrimination. Education is one of the priority sectors of Belgian government cooperation in four countries: the DRC, Burundi, Uganda and Palestine, where Belgium intervenes in various ways – joint funds, projects and programmes. With regard to the exhaustive list of indirect or multilateral actors, I suggest that you send it to you by e-mail for convenience. Indeed, it is quite long and has acronyms that are difficult to pronounce.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-17-54-commissie-ic117x.u33	Minister, thank you. I will therefore be aware of this list which you are going to communicate to me. The Government is in the process of identifying priority countries. In this context, I would like to draw your attention to one point. While I was there, I really realized that giving priority to the poorest countries is an important thing, but unfortunately Cambodia and other Latin American countries are considered to be already more advanced countries. Nevertheless, there is still work to be done, which sometimes does not require much resources, if not a presence and a continuation of the mobilization of civil society. We must ensure that the issue of sexual and reproductive rights is not receded and that progress is continued on the issue of women's education.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-17-54-commissie-ic117x.u34	I agree with you when you say that civil society must be mobilised on the spot. The needs remain heightened, but my view is that in these countries, NGOs and universities must remain present because they are the best instruments for dealing with the problems you have mentioned.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-17-54-commissie-ic117x.u35	Mr President, Minister, the United Nations Population Fund estimates that around 130 million young women and girls have been victims of female circumcision around the world, mainly in Africa. The figures tend to show that these practices do not disappear over time, despite the gradual awareness of some governments and the active role of some international bodies such as UNICEF or the United Nations Population Fund. Minister, children's rights and women's rights are cross-cutting priorities of our cooperation policy and I know you are committed to it. What steps are being taken by the Belgian Cooperation to combat these practices effectively and to preserve the integrity of these girls? For example, are specific actions implemented under our agreements with partner countries? In addition, are specific measures also being taken in our programmes with partner countries to safeguard the sexual and reproductive rights of women?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-17-54-commissie-ic117x.u36	Mr President, I will answer Mr Ducrame's question, but also those of Mrs Pehlivan and Mrs Winckel, as these questions were joined. Mr Ducrame, the promotion and protection of human rights are central to my cooperation policy. Genital mutilation is a serious violation of the rights of the girl or woman. I strongly believe in an individual's autonomy and physical integrity. She has the right to make autonomous decisions concerning her body. We should not underestimate the cultural and traditional element, particularly in the area of female circumcision. The most relevant partners to address this issue in a concrete way are UN institutions that have specific mandates in this area. Experience has shown us that the UN institutions can achieve a more sustainable effect. They work with local organisations and governments, as well as health workers and religious leaders. Not least, they often work with local staff. For example, imams are used in Islamic countries. Genital mutilation has nothing to do with Islam. The tradition is much older than Islam, because it is also applied by non-Muslims, for example in Ethiopia or Kenya. Both UN Women and UNFPA work on genital mutilation. Belgium has supported UN Women over the last three years for a total amount of EUR 10 150 000. Support to UNFPA for that period amounts to EUR 19 700 000. Support to UNICEF for EUR 17 million per year and the World Health Organisation for EUR 7.3 million per year should also be seen in this context. Through contributions to UNICEF and UNFPA, Belgium also contributes to the Joined Program on the Abandonment of Female Genital Mutilation or Cutting. This programme runs in 15 countries, including three partner countries in Belgian development cooperation, namely Mali, Senegal and Uganda. On the other hand, Belgian bilateral cooperation is no longer aimed at a project-based approach. As part of the Paris Declaration, Belgium is committed to supporting partner countries as far as possible in their autonomous approach to development. Rather, the efforts are in line with the support of the health sector. At bilateral level, Belgian Cooperation is active in the health sector in ten of the eighteen partner countries. The amount spent on health was EUR 54 million. The non-governmental sector is also very active. The amount spent on the health sector amounted to €43 million in 2013. These are mainly support for health systems, which includes sexual and reproductive health in the fight against genital mutilation. On the diplomatic front, Belgium supports partner countries in fulfilling their commitments on women's rights. Political dialogue is increasingly coordinated with the EU Member States present and with the European Union delegation. Both Belgian and European diplomatic action in the field of female genital mutilation is based on EU directives. Finally, I would like to point out that, during the Universal Periodic Review, the UN Human Rights Exam in Geneva, to which all countries are subject, Belgium, for all countries where female circumcision is taking place, recommended that this practice be banned. At the General Assembly, Belgium, together with the EU, supports the African resolution on ending female genital mutilation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-17-54-commissie-ic117x.u37	Minister, thank you for this excellent answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-17-54-commissie-ic117x.u38	Mr Ducrame, I give you the floor again for your question No 2448 on the Global Partnership for Education. You are very active for a non-member of this commission!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-17-54-commissie-ic117x.u39	Mr President, unfortunately I have to leave. If I may, I will therefore turn this question into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-17-54-commissie-ic117x.u40	All right, Mr. Ducrame.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-17-54-commissie-ic117x.u41	Minister, the Law of 19 March 2013, which lays down the funding framework for NGOs, will not enter into force until 1 January 2017. To this end, a lot of preparatory work is needed in 2015 and 2016. For example, NGOs have to go through a certain procedure. Now, from a legal point of view, something is wrong with that. The former minister, by royal decree, laid down the manner in which the law should be implemented. For example, in order to be recognised, NGOs should be screened in the course of 2015 on the basis of a dossier which they were required to submit by 31 December 2014. However, the Council of State expressed reservations about the date of entry into force, i.e. 1 January 2017, in accordance with Article 38, while Article 36 sets out the conditions to be met by NGOs. This means that, since the law has not yet entered into force, the NGOs, strictly speaking, do not know what conditions they must meet, even though they have submitted their files in the meantime. For this reason, as a competent minister, you have proposed that Article 38, inter alia, should enter into force immediately upon amendment of the law. I have a number of more technical questions. After all, the amendment was adopted at the Council of Ministers on 6 February 2015. Firstly, the recognition procedure has so far been under way. What happens to the files submitted at the end of December 2014? Will NGOs be obliged to file again, in accordance with the conditions laid down by law? If so, by what external date should they be submitted? If not, why can you accept the files submitted, as they do not comply with the legal provisions? Secondly, once the file has been submitted to the administration, an external agency would be appointed to define the criteria for recognition. Has a contract for the establishment of objective recognition criteria already been issued? If so, to whom was the public contract awarded? If not, when will you make the decision? Thirdly, the recognition criteria to be drawn up by an external agency will be carried out within a framework established by the government. What minimum criteria will the NGOs be screened for in order to obtain their recognition? Fourthly, following the recognition criteria, the next step is to re-authorise a public contract, whereby an external agency will have the responsibility to screen each NGO on the basis of recognition criteria to be determined for the file submitted. Have any steps been taken to that end? If so, which one? The procedure raises questions. It seems to me that NGOs should submit a dossier without knowing which recognition criteria they must meet. I would like an answer from you as to how the procedure will give some legal certainty to NGOs, which are now in legal uncertainty.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-17-54-commissie-ic117x.u42	The recognition procedure applies to all non-governmental cooperation actors, not just NGOs. The actors of non-governmental cooperation will under no circumstances be obliged to submit a new dossier. A legislative amendment is planned which will also bring Article 26 of the Act into force as from the entry into force of the Act, namely 9 January 2014. The amendment of the law was approved by the IKW, and is currently before the Council of State for advice. The amendment provides that non-governmental organisations wishing to do so will have one month after the entry into force of the new law to complete the application file they submitted at the end of 2014. The mandate to draw up objective recognition criteria was issued in October 2014 and is now assigned to the BBO Bureau. This office best met the award criteria set out in the contract documents. The assignment has not yet been completed definitively. After the final completion of the contract, the output of the contract will be publicly announced by means of a ministerial decision and, on the other hand, a sector-wide training moment. In other words, the sector will have sufficient resources to meet the criteria before the actual review takes place. Article 2 (5) of the Royal Decree of 25 April 2014 lays down the general criteria for the review. The review will ensure that each non-governmental organisation has an adequacy between the complexity of its ambitions and its management capabilities. Action has indeed already been taken in the sense that a draft version of the specifications is under development and that the procedure to be followed is conclusive. This will be a limited tender request with pre-announcement. The administration cannot go much further at the moment, as the ministerial decision will determine a large part of the content of the second specifications. In short, the draft law that will soon be submitted will remove legal uncertainty. We are trying to correct the mistake that has crept in on my predecessor. The recognition takes place every 10 years. We are trying to remove the uncertainty as quickly as possible and give them the opportunity to complete the dossiers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-17-54-commissie-ic117x.u43	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. The fact that the study has not yet been completed means that the criteria for recognition have not yet been defined. At the moment, you cannot say what the minimum criteria for recognition are. We are interested in whether it evolves into larger NGOs. Today there are 80 Walloon and 35 Flemish NGOs. Many efforts have been made on the Flemish side in the past. Is that exercise going to continue? This was emphasised in the previous recognition. I think it is important for the sector to be rapidly informed of the criteria for recognition. The files that have been submitted are based on criteria which are not known today. I hope that the review will allow additional information to be provided, since files are submitted without knowing what the criteria are. I would urge you to give NGOs the opportunity to supplement their files, as they do not yet know the criteria on which they are based.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-17-54-commissie-ic117x.u44	Mr. President, Minister, the government agreement provides for a linear reduction in staff in different public administrations. This human resources policy will obviously also apply to your department. Thus, if in 2014 the DGD's workforce is 150, there will be only 110 people in four years. Beyond the workforce, it seems that a reform of the management of your department is envisaged through a management plan. Minister, what is your vision for human resources management in your department and how it works? What is the current implementation management plan? Does it show any shortcomings? Will you possibly improve it? The Court of Auditors points out that, in its 2013-2019 management plan, the Director General states that "the DGD no longer has sufficient human resources to carry out its mission properly, both in terms of core sectoral expertise and essential skills, including financial control". The Court concluded that a prospective analysis of the impact of regulatory developments on useful staff and skills had not been carried out and recommended that "an assessment of the workforce and skills needed to achieve DGD's objectives should be carried out". How do you stand up to this analysis by the Court of Auditors? On the other hand, it would appear that the P&O management will start a "workload analysis" within your department. Do you confirm this information? Can you tell me for what purpose and how? There seems to be an increasing use of the privatization of essential services provided by DGD. Would it be possible to have precise information on the various outsourcing contracts that have been in place since 2014? What types of services are privatized? Why? And above all, at what cost? Finally, what consultation is being carried out with the social partners in the future management of human resources and staff within your department?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-17-54-commissie-ic117x.u45	Madam, as you know, my colleague Mr Reynders has announced a reflection for greater efficiency in all departments. The steering committee is conducting this reflection in a broader context. DGD is an operational directorate of the FPS Foreign Affairs, Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation. As such, it is dependent on HR policy, including the SPF's P&O management vision, the mission of which is to provide staff and organizational leadership and support to the management objectives of the SPF. The main task is to continuously improve the human resources management policy by paying particular attention to the "diversities" component. The 2013-2019 management plan, which is currently in place, is that of the former Managing Director, Peter Moors. It will be up to his successor to draft a new one and, if necessary, to take corrective action. In the current state of affairs, the Director-General ad interim can only apply the existing management plan. At present, DGD is not yet in possession of the final report of the Court of Auditors. However, it is true that DGD's workforce has been contracting for several years. To say that DGD no longer has sufficient human resources to carry out its mission properly, both in terms of core sectoral expertise and essential skills, seems to me exaggerated, especially since the Director General's 2013-2019 management plan to deal with this observation proposes to set this objective, whose red thread is the need to focus on essential tasks and to make strategic choices. The management plan is watermarked and it will also be necessary to make choices and set priorities. DGD must not be on all fronts but, on the contrary, focus on the essential tasks that fall within its scope of expertise, on the dossiers where it can, together with CTB and BIO implementing agencies, bring added value or on international trends, to which it can join, as a joint programme, such as the fight against illicit financial flows. Moreover, the contraction of budgets, the reduction of objectives and the reduction of operating resources are already prompting DGD to engage in this direction. All these provisions should in principle allow DGD to fulfil its core tasks with a small workforce if, however, it is given the opportunity to focus on its core business. While a prospective study of the actual skills available to DGD staff has not yet been carried out, DGD can nevertheless make use of significant assets, such as a large expertise and network in the countries of intervention, the competence of the two CTB and BIO implementing agencies and quality staff. Quality and expertise have been strengthened through a highly, highly selective recruitment policy and a management-supported training policy. DGD regularly uses external study offices and consultants to evaluate programs and projects, to analyse concepts and to coordinate the formulations of future programs. As regards social consultation, it is carried out at the level of FPS between the Chairman of the Management Committee, various management departments and the three representative trade union organisations active within the FPS Foreign Affairs, Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-17-54-commissie-ic117x.u46	Minister, thank you. I have no doubt that we will have further discussions on this issue in the coming weeks and months. In view of the more general reflection under way at the FPS level Foreign Affairs, I insist that social consultation be as extensive as possible because it is an important element in this kind of reform. I am not entirely convinced that, by focusing on its tasks, which you call essential – we still need to agree on what is described as essential – DGD will be able, with the current budgets and the staff at its disposal, to do its work in the best possible way. So I think we really need to talk about this again. In addition, I did not have a specific response regarding the cost of missions allocated to external consultants.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-17-54-commissie-ic117x.u47	As far as your last question is concerned, I have a detailed picture. I'll give it to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-17-54-commissie-ic117x.u48	Mr President, Minister, in your policy letter you indicated that you want to reduce the number of bilateral partners in Belgian development cooperation from 18 to 15 countries. Of course, many criteria can be taken into account for this crucial choice, but it seems to me that some of them are incontournable. It is important in this decision that everything is negotiable and that consideration may be given to the so-called sacred houses. How far have the conversations progressed with regard to that choice? Which countries would you like to maintain and why? Which countries would you like to delete and why? All things considered, which countries would you possibly add to the list and why? What criteria have you used for that choice? In the light of the policy coherence of the bilateral partners, is consultation also taking place with the Länder? Is there a timetable within which you think you can complete the journey and when can we expect that? How does this timetable fit into the overall planning of reforms? After all, you said that you would take the necessary time to examine the whole system of Belgian development cooperation and to take a number of decisions. What do you think is the timetable for the overall picture?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-17-54-commissie-ic117x.u49	Mr President, Mrs Bellens, your question is still a little premature. The government agreement stipulates that the government will reduce the number of partner countries to a maximum of fifteen. This should contribute to greater concentration of available resources for development cooperation. Furthermore, the government agreement states that efforts will focus on a number of geographically homogeneous regions where poverty and instability are high and have an impact, inter alia, on migratory flows to our country, including the Great Lakes region and North Africa. In my policy statement, I extended this to North and West Africa. Discussions within the government on the selection of these 15 partner countries are under way. I cannot tell you much about this at the moment. I hope that the government will be able to make this decision within a few weeks. Of course, I am prepared to present this decision at that time. I therefore hope that in a few weeks' time the government will be able to decide on the 15 partner organisations of multilateral cooperation, which is parallel and is also included in the government agreement. The choice of the 15 partner countries is based on the following criteria, which are set out in Article 16 (1) of the 2013 Law on Belgian Development Cooperation. Firstly, the degree of poverty and inequality in the partner country. Secondly, the comparative advantage of Belgian development cooperation and the role it can play in the partner country. Thirdly, the efforts made by the partner country towards its socio-economic development. Fourthly, the partner country's commitment to good governance and human rights. Finally, the relative importance of Belgian development cooperation in the partner country, in terms of volume, and the existence of a division of labour between the partner country and donors, in particular the other Member States of the European Union. Belgium strives to be one of the main donors. The selection of the 15 partner countries will be based on the above criteria, on an evaluation of our cooperation with the current 18 partner countries and on an analysis of other countries belonging to the two geographically homogeneous regions of North and West Africa and the Great Lakes region. The decision on the 15 partner countries of Belgian cooperation, like the decision on the 15 multilateral partner organisations, is indeed part of a larger reform agenda with regard to Belgian development cooperation. I am thinking, for example, of the introduction of an integrated policy in which the various actors in Belgian development cooperation are mutually reinforcing. I also asked the BTC and the BIO whether, in their view, there is a need for changes to the legislation on these two organisations. Both call for greater flexibility so that they can react more quickly to new situations. The current procedures in Belgian development cooperation are quite rigid and rigid. As a result, we cannot respond sufficiently to new challenges or changed situations. I will therefore propose several legislative amendments to the Council of Ministers and then to Parliament during the course of this year.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-17-54-commissie-ic117x.u50	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I thought I'd better ask my question in time. I have one more question. You said that you will decide on this and that you will then come to Parliament. It would be nice, for the sake of democracy, if you would also consult with this committee in relation to the partner countries that will be selected. I'd really appreciate that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-17-54-commissie-ic117x.u51	I understand your demand for democracy. Democracy also means respecting the law. What I've described is what it says in the law today.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-17-54-commissie-ic117x.u52	Thank you, Mr Minister, from the opposition there is support for the request of the majority.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-17-54-commissie-ic117x.u53	Minister, recently the media reported that Uganda, a bilateral partner country of Belgian development cooperation, has decided to send 215 doctors to Trinidad and Tobago in return for the expertise in the oil sector. Uganda receives a lot of development support from several donors in the field of health care, including Belgium. It is therefore conceivable that a large proportion of doctors who leave for Trinidad and Tobago could do so thanks to the help of many other countries. In response, you decided to put on hold the planned EUR 11 million in support for Ugandan health care and to seek additional advice on the situation. That is why I am asking you the following questions. What was the Ugandan government's response to the protest against their planned plan? How much Belgian development money has been spent in reality on the training of the medical staff who would leave for Trinidad and Tobago? How can it be avoided that Belgian money actually ends up in paying the wages of the medical staff who would go there? How is Belgian budget aid to Ugandan health care allocated on the spot in Ugandan health care? Does the Belgian aid only go to public Ugandan health care, or does it also end up in private health care? How does this support benefit the local population?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-17-54-commissie-ic117x.u54	Mr President, Minister, I would like to ask you, in response to your decision to suspend part of the development aid to Uganda. Eleven million should have been paid in order to support the health sector in that country. You argue that your decision to suspend part of Belgium's aid by sending some 300 Ugandan health experts to the Republic of Trinidad and Tobago in exchange for aid from that country for the export of oil. While it is normal for conditions to be laid down for the granting of financial aid, it is not, however, a question of using these conditions to justify savings within the Cooperation budget. In the course of the budgetary discussions, you yourself indicated that it was preferable to adjust aid rather than abolish it if there was no progress, particularly in terms of human rights. Since it is likely that this sending of experts will not improve the situation in Uganda, which is already catastrophic, do you think, Minister, that your decision to suspend some of the funds paid by Belgium will not harm the Ugandan assisted population? What will be the practical consequences of this decision on the ground? Has a dialogue with the Ugandan authorities been conducted in this context? More generally, have you changed your position on the conditionalities and suspensions or cutbacks that may result in our development projects and programmes with our partner countries? Could other countries than Uganda be affected by such suspensions or cuts, as a result of non-compliance with certain conditions?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-17-54-commissie-ic117x.u55	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that it is a question of suspension and not of cancellation. To be clear, what could harm the population is the transfer of doctors and nurses to another country. That's what we reacted to. The decision to temporarily suspend the payment of the aid was prompted by information that the Ugandan Government intended to send approximately 250 Ugandan health experts to the Republic of Trinidad and Tobago in exchange for the assistance of that Caribbean country in oil development. The sending of Ugandan health professionals would represent a considerable weakening of the country's health system, which is already in great difficulty. Despite the significant efforts of international donors such as Belgium, Uganda continues to face a chronic shortage of medical personnel. There is one doctor per 15,000 people in this country, while the World Health Organization (WHO) recommends one doctor per 1,500 people. The total budget for Belgium's cooperation programmes with Uganda for the period 2009-2016 is EUR 128 million, of which EUR 16 million is earmarked for budgetary support in the health sector. Belgian government development cooperation is also active in education in Uganda. The amount of EUR 11 million outstanding concerns a remaining EUR 5 million tranche for sectoral budget support for health from the Indicative Programme of Cooperation (IPC) 2009-2012, which would otherwise have been automatically transferred in the coming days, as well as a tranche of 6 million sectoral budget support for health from ICP 2013-2016. First of all, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the cooperation agreement between Trinidad and Tobago and Uganda for the provision of medical personnel is another proposal to be submitted to the Ugandan Council of Ministers for agreement. The proposal for a programme is based on South-South cooperation and comprises a total of 283 people, 230 of whom are nurses. The Ugandan Ministry of Health is opposed to this measure, which was initiated by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The Ministry of Health stresses that these health personnel are needed in Uganda and that it is unacceptable that doctors and nurses employed by the Ugandan government should be encouraged to apply for employment in Trinidad and Tobago. The Ugandan Ministry of Foreign Affairs stresses that of the 59 000 health workers 39 000 are employed and 20 000 are unemployed. So there is an oversupply of health personnel. The Ugandan government does not have the necessary budgets to implement them all. That is the position of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. There would already be 6 000 Ugandan health workers operating abroad, some of whom would be victims of trafficking in human beings. The aim of the Ugandan government would be to better frame this migration of health workers in South-South cooperation. In recent days, the Belgian Embassy in Kampala has met several ministers and other Ugandan officials on this subject. We now obtain the opinion of our administration and the Belgian embassy in Kampala before making a final decision on the non-payment or reorientation of the amounts. I have decided not to proceed with the payment of the last five million euros of sectoral budget assistance to the Ugandan health sector. With regard to the EUR 6 million allocated to health as sectoral budget assistance in the indicative cooperation programme 12-16, I would like to receive an opinion from the administration on the desirability of maintaining it, or the reorientation of this budget. This opinion should also take into account the position of the Belgian Technical Co-operative. I have also asked my services for additional information on the number of donors still in general and sectoral aid in Uganda. Over the past ten years, Uganda has been making more and more money available for health care. However, the share of the national health budget has not increased. It is still around 9%, which is much lower than the Abuja target set at 15% in 2001. In recent years, the private non-profit sector's contribution to the national health system has been used to bridge the gap. Non-profit institutions account for more than 40% of hospitals, 17% of health services at lower levels and 65% of nursing and midwife schools. They provide an estimated 35 % to 40% of all health services to the population, mostly in rural and hard-to-reach areas. The Belgian development cooperation cooperates by supporting the implementation of the strategic and investment plan for the health sector in two priority areas selected by the Ministry of Health, in particular sectoral budget support to strengthen district capacity in the field of decentralisation and basic health care and institutional support to the non-profit sector to expand service provision and to develop a financing mechanism based on results through project support. The proposed budget support to the Ministry of Health is actually partially earmarked, as it is explicitly earmarked for the decentralised health posts in the districts. It is not possible to determine how much Belgian money was spent on training the medical staff who would leave for Trinidad and Tobago. Such a suspension measure is indeed quite rare and is only taken in exceptional cases, as now. In this case, these are not savings within the Cooperation budget. This is the commitment of the Ugandan governor alongside the international community. The transfer of 250 specialists, doctors and nurses to Trinidad and Tobago would doubly weaken the health sector in Uganda. I very much hope that the Kampala government will not take this decision. With the suspension of our budget support for the health sector, I wanted to send a signal of concern. Belgium, alongside the UN and agencies in Geneva and New York, plays an important role in awareness-raising programmes against discrimination and attacks on LGBTI rights. Belgium, together with colleagues from the European Union, is actively following up on this issue. The situation is problematic in several African countries, because the rights of LGBT remain a heavy taboo. The human rights situation in Uganda, as in other partner countries, is an important part of the bilateral political dialogue between the EU countries and Uganda. During a Joint Committee in April 2012, Belgian development cooperation made available a new budget of up to 74 million euros for the period 2012-2016, consisting of 64 million euros as a basic amount and a possible additional incitative disk of up to 10 million euros if certain conditions are met. One of the three conditions for granting the incitative disc is a positive evolution in the respect of human rights during the period 2012-2014. Within this broader framework, the anti-holebi law and the violations of LGBTI rights are high on the agenda. These are discussed regularly in a critical manner. Moreover, we are in constant dialogue with the various LGBTI activists and NGOs.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-17-54-commissie-ic117x.u56	Minister, there is indeed a serious shortage of medical personnel in Uganda. The figures speak for themselves. Health care is more problematic than in Trinidad and Tobago. I understand and support your decision to suspend the EUR 11 million. Of course, we very much hope that this can still be passed on to Uganda, but it is very important that a partner country be sensitized in development cooperation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-17-54-commissie-ic117x.u57	Minister, thank you for your answer. I hear the arguments that you put forward for this suspension. You insisted that this was a suspension. We will be attentive to the final decision that will be taken. As you said in your response, you are well aware of the weakening of the health sector in Uganda. The priority must, of course, remain the aid to the local population. In this context, these 11 million could be very useful. We will certainly have the opportunity to ask you again as a result of the final decision that will be taken.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-17-54-commissie-ic117x.u58	Mr President, Minister, on March 3, the CNCD launched a two-year campaign to promote universal social protection in the world. This campaign will be carried out in collaboration with mutual societies and trade unions. According to the CNCD, almost three-quarters of the world's population have no social protection or incomplete social protection. One hundred million people change to poverty every year around the world as a result of unforeseen expenses for their health. Social protection must not be or at least not become an inaccessible luxury. As the case of Rwanda — 90 per cent of the population was covered by the social protection system — it was possible to set the stage for a social protection system, regardless of the degree of development in the country. Moreover, there is evidence that the establishment of a social security system can reduce poverty and inequality. This proactive position was strongly defended by the House when the resolution tabled by my colleague Karine Lalieux was adopted. Minister, what place do you intend to give to the establishment of a social protection system in the partner countries of our cooperation? What expertise can our country provide in this area? The CNCD calls for the establishment of a global fund for social protection in the poorest countries. Are you in favour of setting up such a fund? What is your position on this subject, particularly in view of the future MDGs post-2015?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-17-54-commissie-ic117x.u59	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, my answer is also an answer to Mrs Van Hoof, who is going to ask a question about social protection. For Belgian Development Cooperation, the promotion of social protection in developing countries is a very important dimension. It should be noted from the outset, however, that the financing of a social protection system is a national prerogative and that what is being done locally can only be relied upon. The fact that social protection is important for Belgian cooperation is attested by the following facts. The Belgian Development Cooperation Act of 2013 gives priority to the implementation of the ILO's decent work agenda, whose social protection is one of the four pillars. For the Government, development cooperation must be based on two pillars: a rights-based approach and sustainable and inclusive economic growth, paying attention to four themes, including human and social development. For Belgian Development Cooperation, social protection is a human right that everyone must have access to. Furthermore, I am convinced that giving access to social protection and decent work is a means of combating inequality and poverty. At both political and concrete level, I support decent work and social protection in Belgian cooperation interventions. Thus, Belgium co-chairs with Angola the Friends of Decent Work Group. Throughout the discussions on the post-2015 development framework, this group will promote decent work and social protection. In this context, the Co-Chairs hold regular meetings to draw the attention of UN member countries to these issues. Belgium and Angola are thus trying to conclude an alliance to defend, during the negotiations, the preservation of these issues in the post-2015 framework that we have already mentioned. Belgium is a member of the informal Social Protection Interagency Coordination Board, chaired by the World Bank and the International Labour Organization (ILO), whose aim is to stimulate the installation of social protection floors by exchanging experiences, coordinating activities, improving and harmonizing statistics and data. Belgian cooperation invests heavily in the establishment of social protection floors as defined in ILO recommendations through multilateral, bilateral and indirect cooperation with NGOs such as Global Solidarity, FOS, etc. Belgian Cooperation has contributed 13.5 million to the ILO for the period 2013-2015. Although it is not affected, it is stipulated that it should be used as a priority for social protection and social dialogue. In terms of expertise, Development Cooperation is currently funding a study on social protection as a redistribution mechanism, carried out by IVA, the first phase of which is to be completed soon. With regard to the establishment of a global social protection fund, my administration is currently studying the advantages and disadvantages of such a mechanism. Indeed, this system is likely to attract contributions for causes that are insufficiently covered. On the other hand, a global fund should not duplicate existing agencies in this area – in this case the ILO, the World Bank, WHO, etc. In addition, the creation of a global fund must be the subject of multilateral discussion.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-17-54-commissie-ic117x.u60	Minister, thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-17-54-commissie-ic117x.u61	Mr President, Minister, on 24 February the B-FAST team returned from Nzérékoré, Guinea, but the B-Life laboratory remained on the spot in the framework of the fight against Ebola. The management of this laboratory shall be carried out on the spot by an NGO. Additional funding was provided through Belgian development cooperation and the European Commission. A team of four members of the Centre for Applied Molecular Technology (CTMA), three members of civil protection and two employees of Defence continue the operation of the laboratory. However, in its latest report of 11 March 2015, the World Health Organisation indicated that in Guinea and Sierra Leone there has been no decrease in patients since the end of January, but that geographical concentration focuses on Conakry and Freetown. I have further questions for the Minister. What is the situation regarding the fight against Ebola in Nzérékoré? If new cases are known, will the presence of the B-Life laboratory be extended? If no new cases are known, is the Minister considering moving the B-Life laboratory and deploying it around Conakry or Freetown, or transferring it to Sierra Leone? Apparently, these are areas where the number of Ebola cases is concentrated. What is the overall financial picture of this mission so far? We know that the mission will be reviewed at the end of April.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-17-54-commissie-ic117x.u62	Mr President, last week I received the opinion that the mobile B-Life laboratory and the team from Nzéré should be withdrawn by 20 March 2015. This is about the third rotation, after two rotations within the B-FAST frame. This third rotation has been funded from the Development Cooperation budget since 20 January 2015. The following arguments support this opinion. The outbreak of Ebola was under control in the region of Nzérékoré and no new cases had been detected in that region since 21 days. The last Ebola patients were released from the health centre on 5 March. The research groups that took samples of suspicious cases in the villages in the wide perimeter had also no positive samples detected. This indicated that the transmission chain was interrupted. ALIMA, the NGO that framed this shipment, indicated that it was no longer a asking party for a fourth rotation. The extension of the consignment was positive and allowed to see the end of the outbreak. The last patient of the Center for Applied Molecular Technology had returned home two to three days earlier. On the basis of this unanimous opinion and after consultation with Foreign Affairs and Defence, it was decided to follow this advice and withdraw the mobile lab. However, last Friday, the Guinean Embassy contacted my services, asking them not to bring the mobile lab back to Belgium, but to move to Conakry, where new cases of Ebola still break out. That question was formally asked by President Condé of Guinea, with whom I made two telephone calls yesterday. Already during the weekend I contacted Dr Gala, who is the manager of the B-Life field laboratory, which is currently being deployed. He's currently staying in Guinea. He confirmed that moving the mobile lab to Conakry from a medical point of view is certainly desirable. The situation in Conakry is not yet under control. Yesterday, my services received the same confirmation from the World Health Organisation. An extension of the shipment from the mobile lab and the transfer to Conakry are desirable. My services tried yesterday to find an answer to the following questions. Is a fourth rotation budgetary and logistics possible? What organisation could frame the extended mission: the European Union, the World Health Organisation, the Red Cross or Doctors Without Borders? Could the lab be moved to Conakry? What personnel can man the lab during a fourth rotation? Can another lab from one of the three affected countries be moved to Conakry? These are all questions that we have been working on yesterday and last night. I am not yet in possession of the answers to those questions. Normally, a DOD plane should have left Melsbroek today to fly the mobile lab back to Belgium by the end of the week. Yesterday, I consulted with my colleague from the Defense Department, Steven Vandeput. At my request, he decided to postpone the flight from Melsbroek by a few days, so that we can get more clarity and then make a final decision. As for your further questions, the initial cost of transporting and operating the mobile lab of EUR 400 000 was borne by B-FAST. The third rotation was paid by the FPS Development Cooperation through the Humanitarian Aid Projects budget line and amounts to 250 000 euros.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-17-54-commissie-ic117x.u63	Thank you, Minister, for the answer to my very topical question. You're still working on it. It is a good thing that you are flexible in responding to the situation. Thanks to the World Health Organisation report, we have already learned that the number of Ebola cases is decreasing in the places where we were active and that the situation seems to be getting under control. That's a good one. It is good that you consider not to withdraw the lab, but to move it to where it would be necessary. I understand from your reply that you will first see who can provide the framework on the spot before you decide to move the B-Life laboratory. Those are the most important elements of your research. Or are there financial elements?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-17-54-commissie-ic117x.u64	No.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-17-54-commissie-ic117x.u65	It is therefore mainly the operational aspect in which you examine whether we are able to continue the work in a good way. I can only congratulate you on the results. The situation has got under control in Nzérékoré and I hope that the laboratory will be able to stay in Conakry, so that we can control the situation there too.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-17-54-commissie-ic117x.u66	I'll pass on your congratulations to the team in place. The team on the ground is highly appreciated for the work it has done. I'll give you one last element. We must ensure that there is no overlap. A question has been asked from Guinea, and not just from us. I want to avoid that suddenly there is an overlap in Conakry, because everyone responds positively. In fact, to answer that question, we still do not have enough elements. Before we set up a whole logistics operation, I want to know how the situation on the ground becomes correct. There is not enough clarity at the moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-17-54-commissie-ic117x.u67	So you clearly choose Guinea and not Sierra Leone, because it is the only option.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-17-54-commissie-ic117x.u68	Mr President, Minister, the state of emergency was declared this Sunday in the Republic of Vanuatu following the passing of Cyclone Pam. The greatest damage has occurred in Vanuatu, but nine other Pacific countries have suffered the effects of the cyclone and are still threatened by future storms. In the Republic of Vanuatu, six deaths have been recorded and many people are missing; 90 per cent of the homes are damaged, many roads are impassable, schools and health centres have been destroyed. Have the Minister, Belgium, the European Union or the United Nations received a formal request for assistance at this stage from Vanuatu or other countries in the region? If such a request for aid were to take place, what could be the Belgian response? Could the B-Fast team be mobilized in this situation? Could the European Union organise structured aid?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-17-54-commissie-ic117x.u69	To date, my colleague, Belgium has not received a formal request for assistance from the Government of Vanuatu or other countries affected by the cyclone. On the other hand, the Belgian Embassy in Canberra, Australia, received a note verbale from the Vanuatu Embassy in Canberra with the following content: "The government of Vanuatu is therefore appearance for financial donations and relief supplies from the international community based in Canberra." My administration is following the situation in Vanuatu through the OCHA's postponements. The OCHA Needs Assessment is being developed. We await this document in order to avoid uncoordinated assistance. OCHA itself cautions against the massive and uncoordinated arrival of humanitarian organizations on the affected islands. Belgium is already contributing to the humanitarian response through our contribution to OCHA's flexible fund, CERF. CERF receives unearmarked voluntary contributions, allowing it to respond very quickly to natural and humanitarian disasters. In 2014, Belgium was the eighth largest donor to CERF, with a contribution of $17.5 million. It is clear that Australia will be at the forefront of the international community's effort with the United Nations. At present, the European Commission has mobilised EUR 1 million to support emergency relief efforts. It also deployed experts from the Regional Support Office in Bangkok, Vanuatu, to assess humanitarian needs and liaise with humanitarian partner organizations operating in the field. The Commission is likely to increase its support further in the coming days or weeks. The deployment of B-FAST is not currently envisaged. Australia and the United Nations are better placed to organise coordinated humanitarian aid in this region of the world which is very far from Belgium and where we have very little expertise and added value. As I said to you, Belgium is one of the major donors to the United Nations system of humanitarian aid. It seems more useful to me than to want to intervene in a visible but uncoordinated way.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-17-54-commissie-ic117x.u70	Minister, thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-17-54-commissie-ic117x.u71	Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, thank you for your speedy cooperation, which puts the number of outstanding questions to Minister De Croo at zero. Congratulations.
