ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic083x.u1	Madam President, Minister, it is finally possible to ask the question, because it was already on the agenda once. I am pleased that there is so much interest in the question, but of course even more for the answer. Advertisements for crash diets show up everywhere and promise consumers to lose tens of kilos in the very short term using all kinds of diet pills. These advertisements often contain testimonies from women who have lost kilos or sometimes even testimonies from nutritionists and, of course, these advertisements are misleading to consumers. I also asked Minister Peeters about this misleading advertising and it showed that in recent years the FPS Economy has received more complaints about commercial practices relating to these foods. In 2014, there were 56 complaints, while in 2013 there were only 29 complaints. It is also worrying that consumers can simply order such diet pills over the Internet. There is often no reliable information available on these products, which may be harmful to health. The people of the television programme Telefacts recently conducted an investigation and, as a test, ordered some diet pills that they had analysed by Professor Tytgat of the KUL. One of the pills even contained the heavy metal chromium that is very dangerous. The increasing number of complaints to the FPS Economy about misleading advertising, on the one hand, and the fact that one can order these diet pills via the Internet, on the other hand, is a worrying situation. That is why I would like to ask you the following questions in your capacity as Minister of Health. How many controls has the FAGG, which is responsible for the control of the authorisation, quality and safety of medicinal products and health products, carried out in recent years on diet pills that can be obtained without medical prescription? Has the FAGG received any reports of possible side effects in the past year? If so, how many and what side effects are they? In 2011, the European Medicines Agency would issue an opinion on diet pills, following the harmful diet pill Alli. That opinion was announced in 2011. We are now in 2015 and my question is whether you have that advice. If so, what is its content? Were any conclusions drawn for our country? If so, which one? Has the FAGG made comments on any lack of information on the package leaflets or packages? If so, which one? Is a awareness campaign being developed to better inform the general public about the potential harmful effects of the use of diet pills? Have doctors and pharmacists, who are also allowed to sell such medicinal products, received any additional directives? Was the Belgian Centre for Pharmacotherapeutic Information involved? Why is that, or why not? Finally, do you have legal possibilities to limit, possibly together with your colleague, Minister Peeters, the free sale of such medicines via the Internet? We know that a ban cannot be allowed. What legal possibilities do you have? Will you consult with Minister Peeters on this? That's a lot of questions. I look forward to your answer, for which I thank you in advance.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic083x.u2	Madam President, Mrs Dierick, diet pills registered as medicinal products are subject to the same controls as other medicines on good manufacturing, distribution and delivery practices. The Federal Agency for Medicinal Products and Health Products does not keep separate figures for controls on diet pills. The FAGG is competent for the products registered as medicinal products, which is a large minority within the so-called dietary products. Alli does, because Alli contains the medicine orlistat. Orlistat had previously been on the market under regulation and under certain conditions under the name Xenical. Alli is just a less highly dosed form of Xenical. In 2014, no adverse reactions were reported with the FAGG. Indeed, between 2011 and 2012, the Scientific Committee of the European Medicines Agency carried out an evaluation of the products containing orlistat as an active substance, as mentioned above, including the medicine Alli. The evaluation was carried out as a number of reports of liver toxicity were identified during the previous period and the role of orlistat could not be excluded. The Committee considered all available data and concluded that there is no clear evidence that orlistat increases the risk of severe liver injury. On the basis of this analysis, the Scientific Committee concluded that the benefit-risk balance for these products remains positive. The package leaflet and packaging shall be evaluated when assessing the application for authorisation before medicinal products are placed on the market. Important shortcomings are thus already corrected by the FAGG or by the European Medicines Agency before the product is placed on the market. After the product is on the market, it is also monitored further and the FAGG can also request adjustments to the labelling and package leaflet based on current knowledge. The FAGG has not made a specific awareness campaign on weight reduction agents. Four authorised medicines are currently commercialised and used as part of obesity treatment. Each authorised medicinal product shall have a summary of the characteristics of the product intended for health care professionals. The FAGG has not given specific guidelines to doctors and pharmacists other than the information already available on any medicinal product authorised. The purpose of the independent information distributed by the Belgian Centre for Pharmacotherapeutic Information to all doctors and pharmacists is to determine the place of use of these medicines in the treatment of obesity. The free sale of such medicines via the Internet can be reported by a Belgian pharmacy to the FAGG, insofar as these are non-medically required. Much more problematic is the sale of illegal, unregistered medicines presented as medicines over the Internet. These are often purchased in third countries. Information and postal consignments are intercepted by customs and further processed by the Special Investigation Unit of the FAGG. Checking websites offering slimming products for sale is difficult for the authorities because it is a global phenomenon. The FAGG has therefore opted to launch a campaign to raise the general public's awareness of the risks associated with buying medicines over the Internet, outside the legal circuit. This campaign was launched in 2009 and is connected to the site www.drugs-via-internet.be which is still available. It also seems appropriate to create synergies between different federal authorities in order to tackle this Internet sale. Minister Peeters is also working on this, as you said.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic083x.u3	Madam Secretary, thank you for your comprehensive answer. I note that there are no specific figures available for the diet pills. It is therefore difficult to draw any conclusions in this respect. It is a pity that no analyses can be made. I understand that the problem is mainly with the illegal medicines sold over the Internet because it is difficult to check those websites. Nevertheless, I hope that we will work together. The Minister for Economic Affairs is also working on misleading advertising and all kinds of online sales. Cooperation with other countries is also needed. After all, it is a global problem that we cannot solve in three seconds. Internal cooperation with our own services within Belgium, but also cooperation with the foreign inspection services, seems to me appropriate here. I hope you will take this into account.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic083x.u4	Madam President, Minister, when a patient is required to receive scheduled care abroad, he or she is advised to seek authorization from his or her insurer before leaving, so that he or she will pay the full cost. If authorized by the organization, the patient is provided with an S2 form. The insurer may not refuse the request for prior authorisation of the patient if the specific care he or she needs is not available in his or her country but is covered by the national health insurance scheme, or if the waiting period in that country is too long. However, many patients are denied treatment for the costs of either certain treatments or certain examinations requiring the use of equipment abroad, although these are not available in Belgium. Minister, have you been aware of this phenomenon? Do you have any idea how big it is? To whom can patients turn when they are denied mutual treatment, although they correspond to the categories I mentioned? Finally, how do you intend to remedy this potentially critical situation, which could lead many patients to apply for or cancel care not provided in Belgium when they need it and are entitled to a refund?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic083x.u5	Madam President, Mrs Fonck, a patient who is insured in Belgium for health care has the right to visit another Member State of the European Union, Iceland, Liechtenstein, Norway or Switzerland, for the purpose of receiving scheduled health care (consultation with a specialist, purchase of medicines, surgery in a hospital) and to obtain, under certain conditions, reimbursement of his medical expenses under compulsory health insurance. Today, a Belgian patient planning health care in one of these countries can make use of two possibilities to obtain reimbursement of such care: either reimbursement on the basis of the rules and tariffs of the country in which he received health care (Regulations (EC) Nos 883/2004 and 987/2009 on the basis of a form S2), or reimbursement on the basis of the rules and tariffs of the Belgian compulsory health insurance (European Directive 2011/24/EU which has been transposed into Belgian law). Your question concerns the application of Regulations (EC) Nos 883/2004 and 987/2009 and, in particular, the issue of a prior authorisation, Form S2. Under the above-mentioned regulations, all health care programmed in another country is subject to prior authorisation. This applies to both outpatient care (consultations, reimbursable drugs) and intramural care (hospital care). The costs shall be reimbursed on the basis of the rules and rates of the public health insurance of the country of treatment. There is therefore no guarantee that the Belgian insurer will cover all the costs. Article 20 of Regulation (EC) No 883/2004 states that "in the case of Belgian insured persons residing in Belgium, the Belgian insurer may not refuse prior authorisation if the planned medical care which the patient wishes to receive abroad is reimbursed by the Belgian compulsory health insurance and if similar treatment in Belgium cannot be carried out within a medically justified period, taking into account the patient's state of health at the time of application and the expected development of the disease". If these two cumulative conditions are not met, the insurer will refuse prior approval. I should like to inform you that Community law does not establish the right to reimbursement of the costs of health care planned abroad where such care is not included in the benefits provided for by the legislation of the Member State of affiliation of the insured person. It is therefore compatible with Community law to limit the issue of a prior authorisation by means of Form S2 for the payment of cross-border healthcare costs to health care to which an insured person residing in Belgium is entitled in accordance with Belgian legislation. If the prior authorisation is refused and the planned care is not covered by the list of care subject to prior authorisation, a list set out in the Ministerial Decree of 24 June 2014, the social insured may freely receive it in one of the above mentioned countries and be reimbursed in accordance with the Belgian health insurance rules and rates. This means that only health care which would also be reimbursed in Belgium is reimbursed. The reimbursement will never exceed the reimbursement provided for in this health care in Belgium. In other words, if the cost of an intervention is higher than the cost in Belgium, the reimbursement is that applied in Belgium. An INAMI circular for insurers contains detailed explanations and practical interpretations of the legal provisions in force. This circular also specifies the procedure for requesting authorisation and the procedure for reimbursement of care in another EU state and, by extension, in the other countries I mentioned. This new European legal framework has been in force since 25 October 2013 with regard to cross-border healthcare and raises questions about whether or not an S2 form is issued in certain situations. My administration is aware of this and is currently engaged in an in-depth analysis of this issue. Since your question is rather vague, if you are aware of specific examples of the phenomenon you are referring to, I invite you to communicate them to me so that I can submit them to my administration.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic083x.u6	Madam Minister, you have referred to the regulations and legal provisions in this area, and I thank you for that. In case of refusal at the level of mutual care, no recourse is possible for patients and there is only one examination, namely the only evaluation carried out by this doctor-counsel. It would be wise for INAMI to ask all mutuals about the number of cases for which an application was made by the patient, or even by doctors. I would point out that I was not targeting cross-border patients, but patients who cannot benefit from these treatments because either the latter or the appliances do not exist in Belgium. It would be appropriate for INAMI to question mutuals in this respect, in order to have a record of these cases available and to have them cross-analyzed. The other route is the introduction of an appeal option for patients and physicians who apply for their patients and who are denied this request at the mutual level. But that only the doctor of the mutual can decide without any other look poses a great deal of problems. The rules must of course be respected. However, in a number of cases the interpretation is very restrictive. Good if a circular has been sent, but I think it's not enough. If you could take this into account, an important step could be taken towards our patients.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic083x.u7	Madam Minister, orphan medicinal products by definition have a very limited market because of the rarity of the treated condition. This results in very high prices that are priceless for the individual patient. Soliris has been reimbursed for a certain pathology since 2009. I won't pronounce it entirely, it's PNH (paroxismal nocturnal hemoglobin). Twenty-five patients were treated in 2011, at a price of 360 000 to 370 000 euros per patient per year. Not long ago, in May 2013, there was an application for reimbursement for atypical haematologic uremic syndrome (aHUS), the condition Viktor suffers from. A few months ago, the media announced that there is now Elias, who needs the medicine for life at two doses per month, or for 18 000 euros per month. As with Viktor at the time, the procedure for reimbursement is currently in progress with the Committee on Medicinal Products Prevention (CTG) and negotiations with the firm have begun, in the hope of achieving a price reduction or other agreement. In order to avoid such situations and to avoid patients being dependent on the goodwill of pharmaceutical companies, we reiterate our call for Europe to develop a policy on orphan medicines or other life-saving and expensive medicines. Firstly, what steps can you, as a Belgian minister, take at European level? Secondly, after Viktor's story, has any progress been made in this area of a European policy on orphan medicinal products? Thirdly, what possibilities do you have if the negotiations of the CTG with the firm do not yield anything?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic083x.u8	Madam President, I can tell you that I fully support the investments currently being made by the RIZIV administration in pilot projects under the so-called Mechanism of Coordinated Access to orphin medical medicinal products. This project was launched under the Belgian Presidency of the European Union in 2010 by then Commissioner Tajani. The objective was to propose a mechanism in which different Member States with patient organisations, industry, medical organisations, etc. could take different concrete steps in a thorough cooperation to achieve the availability of new orphan medicines for patients. The RIZIV led this project together with the Commission. The final report is available. In addition to a number of conclusions and recommendations, a framework has been developed to allow for a transparent and joint assessment of the true value of the new therapies. At least as important was the recommendation to further concreteise the concept with pilot projects, one of which has been completed and others are in the pipeline. I therefore endorse the conclusions of the Italian Presidency of the Council of December 2014 on innovation for the benefit of patients. In particular, I would also refer to the call for Member States and the Commission to continue dialogues between all stakeholders and competent authorities and to examine possibilities for cooperation in the field of pricing and reimbursement and the setting up of pilot projects in this area. So we want to continue with the pilot projects. Because the European Union consists of 28 countries, it seems very difficult to create the necessary sense of urgency immediately in all countries from west to east. I therefore believe that bilateral meetings with a number of countries will enable us to take the first steps. I'm working on that, too. We can start with this and extend it further to hopefully the 28 countries. You are also asking about the specific dossier on Soliris. I would remind you that the dossier on the possible reimbursement of this therapy is still pending in the Committee on Medicinal Products. As you know, the committee is engaged in dialogue with the company in order to find a solution. It is, of course, the intention to wait for the end result. I understand your question, but I am not going to anticipate it. This would make it more difficult for the committee and their negotiations with the firm concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic083x.u9	Madam President, Minister, you are clearly seeking a pragmatic approach. After all, you answer that it is a long way to find a comparison with those 28 Member States. I therefore only welcome the fact that you are continuing along the pragmatic path and that you are also trying to make a basic text or agreement bilaterally, and then move forward step by step. For the specific cases, we hope that this will not take too long. I understand that you cannot anticipate the negotiations with the Committee on Medicinal Products and with the pharmaceutical company. I hope, however, that you will follow the dossier closely and at some point decide which direction it should take. That is in the interests of the patient, regardless of whether it is called Victor, Elias or otherwise. We are increasingly aware of such cases of orphan diseases and medicines, which exist, but which are being abused, in order to make them pay astronomical amounts. Of course, a policy at European level is pressing for it. If there is no policy, however, the patient in question must be considered and the issue given due consideration in order to reach an individual agreement. However, I am waiting for the negotiations to take place and I am also waiting to see how you can intervene in this matter, if necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic083x.u10	Madam President, Madam Minister, established in 1938, the Order of Physicians, which is regulated by Royal Order No. 79 of November 10, 1967, currently consists of 10 provincial councils, a French-speaking appeal board, a Dutch-speaking appeal board and a national council. The College of Physicians enjoys civil personality under public law. In order to practice, a physician is required to register with the Order of the Province table that is competent for the place where the physician carries out his or her primary medical activity. While the national council is primarily responsible for establishing the ethical rules that govern the profession, the provincial councils play a greater role of authority and jurisdiction, in particular to ensure compliance with this code of ethics. As we know, the College of Physicians is preparing a reform with a view to greater transparency and legal certainty. Indeed, this text is regarded, by its own admission, as outdated and requires a revision in order to further improve the quality of the exercise of the art of healing. In addition, various criticisms are commonly expressed about the functioning of the Order itself, including its lack of transparency. Thus, as the French-speaking vice-president of the national council, Professor Jean-Jacques Rombouts – I quote – explained recently, "it is necessary to make the Order evolve towards more transparency and to make it become an organ for the defence of public health, at the service of the patient, far from the image of the corporatist group". Minister, we know that the College should itself make a proposal to reform its code of ethics. Do you know when this proposal should come on the table? Can you explain to us what means you have, as part of this reform of ethical rules, in terms of improving the transparency and rights of patients? Is a reform of the Order of Physicians, and therefore of the royal decree governing it, on the agenda? Have any contacts been made with the Order in this regard? Do you also feel that there is a need to establish ethical bodies for all health professions that still lack them, such as physiotherapists, nurses or dentists?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic083x.u11	Madam Minister, a reform of the Order of Medicine of an over-achieved organisation in which members are judges and parties, towards a modern and well-functioning institution, has been on the agenda for a very long time. The first time I heard talk about a reform of the Order was when I was in college, and that's, unfortunately, a while ago. Many proposals have already been put forward, both in the Chamber and in the Senate. Some are even stranded on a sigh of the final measurement and because of a banal detail that is located in the Flemish Rand. The only thing that recently moved was the announcement that a gender-neutral name change would be implemented, from an Order of Medicine to an Order of Doctors. That is already a good thing, but I hope that is not the end of it. From your previous speeches it became clear that you are waiting for the Order to come forward with a proposal. Whether this is the best move to achieve a good and comprehensive reform that is geared to greater transparency and a clear service, I fear. Consultation with the Order is appropriate, but I do not know if it is a good idea for the Order itself to write its own reform. I speak from my experience as a pharmacist and what I have experienced with them in the past. That didn't always work optimally. I would therefore ask you to take the cow itself by the horns and come to Parliament with a far-reaching draft. I therefore have a few questions about the new Order of Doctors and Related Persons. Firstly, what are the priorities for the planned reform of the Order? Secondly, what provisions on guarantees of transparency, independence and objectivity, communication and services to patients will you include in the draft?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic083x.u12	In the order of your work on the Order of Physicians, you said: "I'm waiting for a proposal from the Council of the Order. [["]] I want to know if a deadline has been set for them to make proposals and an order of magnitude of proposals? Is it simply a matter of solving the language and belonging problems in Brussels and on the Flemish periphery? Is the request made to them broader than that? Together with my colleague Anne Dedry, we have resubmitted a proposal that resumes work that has been done on the basis of consultations and negotiations. This proposal was adopted in the Senate several years ago, but it did not proceed. Clearly, there is a need to change the College's operational and transparency requirements, which must be consistent with the values of health professionals and the specificities of physicians. I would therefore like to know what has been asked of them and within what time frame, so that we can organize our work and move this body forward.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic083x.u13	Ladies and gentlemen, the Order of Physicians has not yet sent me such a proposal for reform. I cannot therefore comment on the content. Nevertheless, the health bill currently being prepared by my strategic cell already includes a chapter that makes some practical changes to Royal Decree 79, in order to sustain the current functioning of the Order. The College of Physicians must, however, fundamentally serve the interest of the patient. To this end, the honour and dignity of the profession must be complemented by the quality of care provided to patients. That is why, in consultation with the order, my strategic unit will examine and prepare further adjustments to Royal Decree 79, which aim at at least at the transparency of the disciplinary procedure and disciplinary jurisprudence, on the one hand, and at strengthening the complainant's (patient's) position, on the other. Mrs Detiège, you are undoubtedly aware that a reform of the legislation on health professions is also in the pipeline. The aim of this initiative is, of course, to ensure consistency between the conditions of exercise on the one hand and the deontology between the various professions of care on the other. In addition to this reform, it is important to develop an equal approach to deontology and disciplinary law for the various health professions. During the discussion of the declaration of government, I said that it was not for me to impose a draft law on the Order. The Order is working on this and is currently working on it. A year ago, I myself was invited to the Order, just like many of us, to give my view of it. So my vision is there, but that has nothing to do with it, because many other people were consulted. The Order would make a proposal next year. So I'm waiting like you for that proposal. That proposal will be discussed in the Chamber and a parliamentary majority will then have to be found for it. Mrs Gerkens, in answer to your questions, I can tell you that as part of a reform of the Order of Physicians and the Order of Pharmacists, we will attach importance to the question of whether to create a Council of Ethics for the other health professions and what its composition should be, in order to create a reformed structure that can be implemented in parallel with what would be created, if any, for the other occupational groups. I will not fail to keep you informed of my contacts with each Order and of the evolution of this file. With regard to the links between this reform of the Orders and the revision of Order 78, it seems to me that these two matters are obviously complementary but nevertheless distinct. Therefore, the reforms that I want to see achieved can be carried out in a totally independent way.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic083x.u14	Madam President, Minister, first of all, I would like to thank you for your answer. Having said that, we are still waiting – I know that the minister is not entirely responsible for this – for the College's proposals. We should be able to afford not to find ourselves on the dock to wait for. If the situation does not change, Ms. Detiège may retire before something moves.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic083x.u15	They're still young and they're going to work longer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic083x.u16	The bill to delay retirement age has not yet been passed, minister. Still, I have the feeling of a will of immobilism, an aspect that particularly challenges me, even though, as you said, your strategic cell is preparing a number of changes to the Order in order to make the decisions made by the College in disciplinary matters more transparent, but also to give room to patients. I therefore ask you to remain attentive to the question so that we do not debate it for many years to finally feel that it has been of no use.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic083x.u17	Madam Secretary, I just want something to happen effectively. As the previous speaker said, it has been going on for many years. I used to be a very enthusiastic pass-graduate confronted with the reality of the operation of the Order and I found it striking how corny that system was. I fear that such an old-fashioned body will be able to modernise itself. I don't know if you've ever been there, but when I went there, there were all people of a very old age, with very conservative ideas. I really hope that it will move and that a modern and transparent functioning of the body can be achieved. The intention is effective to put the patient at the heart of the story, but in the past I have seen other things. You're talking about next year, I guess you're talking about 2016 or alludes to this year?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic083x.u18	I think it's about 2015, but I'd like to check it out. In relation to representativeness, they are elected. The people in the national and provincial councils are eligible for election. If younger people run, they will be elected, but there is a bit of the problem. In the Senate there used to be age requirements, one could not sit in the Senate if one was younger than 40 years. The Senate was also a somewhat older representation of society at the time.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic083x.u19	Apart from the age, I insist it's a story of judge and party.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic083x.u20	I don't think age is a parameter.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic083x.u21	That's right, but I was impressed by the very old age.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic083x.u22	You may be impressed quickly, because it's not as bad as it is in Rome.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic083x.u23	Almost. I'm having a hard time with the story of judge and party. I hope that we can make progress and get a transparent and modern organisation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic083x.u24	Minister, when you realize that an Order needs to be amended, it makes sense to ask the profession to bring in some things. Where it becomes pathological, it is that it has been asked for years to propose a reform. Texts have been adopted and I am also aware of advice and comments from the Order's Council of 2009. There is clearly resistance to changing the rules, the object. It is considered that the College should not deal with patients' rights or quality, and that the honour of the profession and dignity are the only real objects carried by this body. There are also clear divisions between the youngest doctors and the oldest who are part of this council of the Order. In the same way as in other professions as in Health, there is also a willingness to organize within them and to share values and ethical criteria. From the moment we talk about respect for rights and rules, I find it important that politics have a say. It would be normal for the Council of the Order of Physicians to be given time to communicate its proposals by such a date. Otherwise, at the end of the legislature, we will always have no suggestion and we will face formal refusals to change the rules. They are particularly susceptible in this regard. I understand that your firm is also working on it. I hope, Madam Minister, that you will force the manoeuvre to modernize these bodies.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic083x.u25	Mrs Gerkens, if they're not ready, it's not up to me to say that we're going to take charge of the case. This is not included in the government statement. Personally, I'm waiting politely for their proposals. I don't have to dictate his agenda to Mr. Dejemeppe. That's not happening. Nor does the Minister of Justice tell magistrates that reforms must be made before such a date under threat of imposing them himself.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic083x.u26	When there have been government proposals to reform the justice system, (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic083x.u27	I understand your impatience. You can also tell Mr Dejemeppe.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic083x.u28	It's a pleasure. I've already told him. Unfortunately, I'm not a minister. When we worked on the reform of justice, at one point, the Ministers of Justice told the magistrates and representatives of the Orders that they needed to give them their opinions and suggestions for a given date, so that they could move forward. This has been done in other areas. I therefore think, Madam Minister, that you can dare. Many of us would support you in this process.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic083x.u29	Madam President, Minister, the Colla Act of 29 April 1999 provides for "the supervision of unconventional practices in the fields of medical art, pharmaceutical art, physiotherapy, nursing and paramedical professions". Four practices are currently covered by this Act, namely homeopathy, osteopathy, chiropractic and acupuncture. Your predecessor had begun work so that this law could finally be implemented. In that context, recognition had been given to the various professional associations so that the chambers of non-conventional practices and the joint committee could be set up. These chambers and the Joint Committee were thus able to deliver an opinion on each of the practices concerned, in accordance with the Colla Act. Homeopathy is the first of the four practices involved in the coaching process. The royal decrees relating to his exercise were published in May 2014. In our view, it is urgent to ensure the safety of patients and therefore, to that end, to implement the Colla law in its entirety. It is, of course, regrettable that patients, who are increasingly turning to this type of practice, cannot ensure the quality of the providers consulted and cannot benefit from the general regulation of patient law. Minister, in the priorities you have referred to the Public Health Commission, these are precisely those unconventional practices. Informal contacts have apparently been made. Can you now tell us with whom these contacts have taken place and whether any progress can be made in this regard? Has a timetable already been established? Could you also tell us what your working method will be in this area? Parliament had been strongly involved in the preparatory work for the drafting of the Royal Decree on Homeopathy. This was in fact during the last year of the previous legislature. How do you intend to proceed? Can we once again be involved in the discussions and conduct hearings in the committee? Furthermore, are you clearly considering amendments to the Act of 29 April 1999 on non-conventional practices? If so, which, in general terms?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic083x.u30	Madam President, Mr Frédéric, a solution is being sought with regard to the accreditation of osteopaths and chiropractors for activities considered by the KCE as evidence-based medicine or evidence-based medicine. I said that when I presented my policy note. The Colla Act of 29 April 1999 on non-conventional practices will be evaluated. This is also reflected in the government statement. You are aware that this is a complex and sensitive matter. I am not yet in a position to provide you with a timetable. It all depends on the evaluation of the Colla Act, which will be the result of a collaboration between the administration, my strategic unit, representative professional organizations and medical faculties. It goes without saying that any changes will be submitted to Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic083x.u31	Madam President, Madam Minister, if I understand you correctly, we will not do anything until the results of the evaluation, which is a question, are communicated to you?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic083x.u32	We will cooperate to have this assessment carried out. But we are not the only decision makers. In addition to the administration, representative professional organisations and medical faculties are involved in this area. However, the government agreement provides for an evaluation of the Colla Act in order to make possible amendments. But this is a huge job.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic083x.u33	If I asked you a question about this, it's not just to spend time in your pleasant company. It is clear that I am concerned about this matter. This is a 1999 law with only one component on homeopathy implemented. The others are still waiting. In my personal capacity, I am particularly interested in sectarian health drifts, and there is no question here of linking up with this problem. A whole range of actors sometimes work between two waters and exploit people who are in difficult health situations. At some point, patients must be able to be told that they can have full confidence in their acupuncturist or therapist because control is carried out by the public authorities. I therefore ask you to remain very attentive to the question. I would remind you that this is a 1999 law. I want to move forward slowly and cautiously, but at this point it can be said that things are really moving too slowly.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic083x.u34	Dear colleague, the law actually dates back to 1999. But I've only been on duty for three months. I am therefore not responsible for the fact that this law has not been implemented. As I have told you, there is a problem with this law or its implementation. Since this is a very sensitive issue, the government agreement provides for an assessment to determine the origin of the problem and to make progress in this regard. Indeed, when a law passed fifteen years ago has not yet been implemented, one can only deduce that a problem arises at the level of the law in question or at the level of its monitoring.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic083x.u35	Minister, I did not say that you were completely responsible. At the time, I was not a member of the Health Committee. It is only now that I am interested in the matter. I am simply saying that I would not want to bury this sensitive issue, which may disturb, under the guise of an evaluation that may extend until the end of your mandate, so that, in the end, the question still arises as to how these health professions should be regulated.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic083x.u36	There is also a very important work that was carried out under the previous legislature by committees aimed at identifying the actions to be taken, the basic formations to be required for such pathology, etc. But it is true that some actors were not satisfied with the conclusions. The difficulty is also to know what balance to achieve between the various actors involved, including some universities.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic083x.u37	Mrs Muylle is not here.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic083x.u38	Madam President, Madam Minister, in the past women were given the council to have a swab taken every year. In future, a new type of swab will allow women to undergo cervical cancer tests only every five years. This is evident from a report from the Federal Knowledge Centre. This change will certainly require a change of attitude, as many women still have an annual smear. However, 40% of women are never investigated, mostly women from lower social classes. How many women get a swab every year? Is there an evolution in that? Are you planning, as it were, a detachment campaign for the yearly swab? Are you considering a review of the cost of the annual consultation? Are you planning, in consultation with the Communities, preventive campaigns to encourage women who have never been investigated to study?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic083x.u39	Minister, a recent report from the Federal Centre for Health Care Expertise recommends a new method for detecting cervical cancer. Clearly, rather than detecting lesions, it would be a question of detecting the presence of the virus that causes these lesions. Indeed, over the past 20 years, a causal link could have been established between the development of cervical cancer and the presence of a local human papillomavirus (HPV) infection. This seems to me to deserve our attention because 700 invasive cervical cancers are diagnosed each year in Belgium. More than a third of patients die. The health insurance pays for screening every three years for women between the ages of 25 and 64. Only 59% of women do this screening, but since the prevention of the case is not within the jurisdiction of the federal government, I will limit my questions to the report's recommendations for the screening method itself. The new method advocated would be much more effective for both patients and for the health insurance budget, at least from the age of 30 years. In women under 30 years of age, screening should continue to be done using the current method. In the new method, only women in whom the virus is detected would have their smear tested for pre-cancerous or non-cancerous lesions. Indeed, not all HPV infections evolve into cancer, and when they do, it is with a certain delay. The new method would increase the time required between two reimbursable tests from 3 to 5 years. It would also help to avoid 240 additional cancer cases and 96 deaths per 100,000 women detected, save EUR 15 million per 100,000 women over a lifetime and reduce the cost of screening from EUR 60 to EUR 35. The Netherlands would have already decided to change technology in 2016, and several Scandinavian countries would consider it. Minister, what about Belgium? Will this new method be adopted on the basis of the experts' report or will it at least be tested? If so, has a timetable already been set? If not, why would Belgium not follow the recommendations of the Federal Centre for Care Expertise?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic083x.u40	Madam President, Minister, I can agree with a number of points that my fellow Members have already raised, such as the various tests, the novelties, the number of women who are not being tested or the limited number of women who are being tested, etc. I would like to add one more element. Screening of cervical cancer is particularly preventive medicine and could be performed perfectly by the first line. In our country, however, patients are free to go directly to the gynecologist and that is what happens massively. Do you intend to encourage measures that allow this screening by the general practitioner in the context of efficiency gains in health care? I assume you'll find this a great question, since you're a GP. I am therefore curious to hear your answer. What will you do to control the cost of the HPV test? Are you considering a public tender to monitor the current price? How about a quality control system? Is there gonna change the patient's reimbursement? Will the test be reimbursed every three years or every five years? Will doctors and general practitioners inform about the increased risk in women under the age of 30? Will you make them aware that the HPV test for this group of women does not work better than the PAP test? If so, how exactly?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic083x.u41	Madam President, Mr Demon, you asked about the number of women who are being examined, but that is normally the subject of a written question. Between 2006 and 2009, around 1.1 million women were investigated. At some point the legislation changed, in the sense that there was only a refund every three years. This, of course, means that we have seen a drop and we are now seeing 700 000 to 800 000 women swabbed every year. I believe that the fact that the reimbursement has evolved from annual to biennial and now even once every three years is an explanation for this decline. These figures are therefore difficult to compare. We shall now see how the figures evolve. I have indeed taken note of the report No. 238 of the knowledge centre. The recommendation that women between 30 and 64 should be subjected to a HPV test every five years has also aroused my interest. It is important that, in order to keep life expectancy as high as possible, cervical cancer can be detected early in women of any age. The federal government has always endeavoured to establish a screening programme that is as effective and efficient as possible to meet the needs of the population. In accordance with European recommendations, the Interministerial Conference on Public Health approved in March 2009 the principle of organising a systematic screening programme for cervical cancer for women aged 25 to 64, using cervix smear using the classical method of the Papanicolaou test. Since March 1, 2013, women between the ages of 25 and 64 are invited to undergo a smear every three years at their general practitioner or gynaecologist. It's up to them to choose their doctor. In view of the KCE conclusions, another early detection strategy may be considered. It is important for the choice of the woman that she can go to both the general practitioner and the gynecologist. General practitioners will usually also recommend young women to have a swab done shortly after they have had relations. As a result of the sixth state reform, the Communities will now be able to take autonomous prevention initiatives as a population survey. If they ask for the assistance of health care providers by means of reimbursed benefits, e.g. screening fees, they can indeed be covered by health insurance. Asymmetrical agreements can be made between the Communities and our services. I am open to discussion with my fellow Members from the Länder in order to put in place the most effective system of prevention. For example, the Technical Medical Council will also be invited to take note of the report of the Centre of Knowledge on the HPV test in the primary cervical screening, and to formulate a proposal in the event of nomenclature adjustments, taking into account the recommendations and intentions of the Communities. Finally, I would like to ask for advice on the proper implementation of the test to the Committee on Clinical Biology in the Scientific Institute of Health. If we opt for a new test and screening, we must be sure that we improve the quality of screening.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic083x.u42	Madam Minister, it is indeed important, as you yourself say, to cooperate with the Communities. For example, the Flemish Community organises a campaign every three years. Now, if we switch to the new system, resources can be released in this area. I therefore believe that good cooperation with the Communities is absolutely essential.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic083x.u43	Madam Minister, thank you for your different answers. I will reply to my colleague's reply. The women who are tested are tested throughout Belgium. We have to take that into account. Madam Minister, perhaps you could be relied upon to stimulate the launch of similar campaigns from Region to Region. In such projects, it is important that we are all on the same footing.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic083x.u44	Madam President, Minister, thank you for your reply. However, as far as the general practitioner is concerned, I am a little disappointed in your answer because a soft echelon ring might be appropriate to achieve the efficiency gains you advocate here too. What can well happen on the first line, I think can happen there as well and quite well happens there.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic083x.u45	Madam President, Madam Minister, my question will have two parts, since it is twofold: on the one hand, a home experience and, on the other, the budget allocated to alternatives to hospitalization. For the past year, the Ath site of the Epicura Hospital has conducted a pilot project through which it offers a home hospital service for patients who reside within a radius of 20 kilometres. Today, it appears that this experience shows rather positive results: 115 patients were cared for at home under this project by four nurses who relayed the week and the weekend. However, it seems to me essential to be able to guarantee the quality of care provided in this context while respecting the rights and duties of everyone. The advanced benefits of home hospitalization are numerous. There is, first of all, the patient's comfort which is greatly improved as he can stay at home. Secondly, it allows for the release of beds and is therefore an alternative to the lack of places that some of our hospitals encounter. This can also have a positive impact on nosocomial diseases and can represent an economy for the health care budget to this extent. Minister, what is your position on this type of care? Is an evaluation of this type of pilot project being considered? Is extensive reflection planned to invest properly in this new type of care? Moreover, the government agreement provides that an offer of alternative and less costly forms of admission to hospital will be put in place during this legislature. During the previous parliamentary term, a budget of EUR 11 million per year had been included for this purpose for five years in order to carry out various studies and pilot experiments, in particular on alternatives to hospitalization, the provision of care for disabled people and chronic patients. Concerning precisely the alternatives to hospitalization, your predecessor's desire was to start in the fourth quarter of 2014 a series of pilot projects. Minister, is the budget of EUR 11 million still available? Is the allocation of this budget still the one originally planned and, if so, how will the EUR 11 million be broken down into the various studies and pilot experiments? Will new calls for projects be launched? If so, could you tell us the timing?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic083x.u46	Madam President, Mr Senesael, both in the government statement and in my policy note presented to Parliament, the desire to develop alternative forms of care for hospitalization was stressed. Home-based hospitalization is one of the alternative forms that attracts my attention. A study is currently being carried out by KCE on this particular modality of out-of-hospital care. The aim of this study is to analyse, on the basis of experience in various countries, possible arrangements for the organisation and financing of this support. The report of this study will be available in the coming months. At the same time, the broad reflection on chronic care also encompasses this issue, since it is a matter of reorganizing care for more integrated care, centred on the patient and his/her needs, and delivered as close as possible to his/her usual living environment. The intention is to support projects from the field and to accompany them from a methodological and scientific point of view in order to measure the added value of this initiative. A proposal to this effect will be presented to the interdepartmental public health conference in the coming months as a follow-up to the decisions taken by the conference in the previous legislature. The cooperation of the Communities and Regions is, in fact, essential for the realization and success of this project. As far as the budget is concerned, I confirm that the budget of $11 million is indeed still available and that its allocation has not been changed. This budget should be used both to support pilot projects and to provide scientific guidance for such experiments. However, the proportion devoted to one or the other strand has not yet been determined.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic083x.u47	Madam President, Madam Minister, I thank you for your reply, at which time you gave us your interest in alternative forms of hospitalization. I have taken note of the fact that the study of the KCE still under way will allow an evaluation of these experiences. Minister, since you have not mentioned this, I assume that, as far as Ath is concerned, there is not yet an evaluation of the current project. You have also spoken of cooperation with the Communities and the Regions. I can support you in this. However, consultation in this area would also be necessary to ensure that this collaboration is effective so that the scientific framework to which you referred can be indicative of the experiments carried out.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic083x.u48	I would like to recall the rule for the attached questions: the first person sets out the elements and the others insist only on important points or new points.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic083x.u49	Madam President, Minister, any person between the ages of 18 and 70 who is healthy may give blood, subject to certain restrictions, from travel abroad to medication, tattooing or piercing. However, part of the population is still "inapted" to give blood. These are "men who have sex with other men", who are invited not to give their blood in order to guarantee transfusion safety. This exclusion based on sexual orientation poses a strong question in that it appears to accredit a form of presumption of HIV-positiveness towards homosexual and/or bisexual men. However, what should be taken into consideration in this regard is not sexual orientation, but at-risk practices that promote the transmission of HIV, practices that can easily be found in heterosexuals. In this respect, the Advocate General of the European Court of Justice ruled against this prohibition, at a hearing on 17 July 2014, finding that homosexuality was not in itself a conduct that would justify the permanent exclusion of blood donation. Such an exclusion seems all the more absurd since the "blood weather", consulted the week of 12 January on the site of blood donation transfusion.be, referred to stocks of blood that are currently very fragile, which do not allow for serene consideration in the coming weeks. Minister, aware of the discriminatory feeling of this wording, which some might legitimately suffer, your predecessor had taken up the matter in the previous legislature. A working group of experts had thus been set up but unfortunately could not agree on a new formulation of the exclusion. Minister, although we are aware that it is essential to ensure the safety of transfused blood, it also seems important to avoid stigmatizing these people. What is the government's position on this issue? Do you intend to take steps to review the criteria for the lifetime exclusion of men who have sex with men, such as Australia, Japan or the United Kingdom? Are there any avenues already under consideration?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic083x.u50	Madam President, Madam Minister, I had already questioned you on November 26th. I am not going to repeat everything that my colleague has said; I am going to ask you directly the questions that lie with me. What is the status of the work of the working group which my colleague has just mentioned? Can harmonisation of the exclusion criteria mean maintaining the exclusion of homosexuals solely on the basis of their sexual orientation rather than on the risk or non-risk of their sexual behaviour? Has an explanatory letter been sent to the Advocate General of the European Court of Justice concerning your actions in this matter, since this has already been referred to the Council of Europe?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic083x.u51	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, in reply to the questions asked, I can only refer to the answers given in this committee on 26 November. In no way is it a matter of stigmatizing part of the population by excluding it from the donation of blood on the basis of its sexual orientation. As I have already said, and I repeat, I share your point of view. Epidemiological figures obtained from the Scientific Institute of Public Health confirm that sex between men and men poses a high risk of HIV transmission in particular. For the future, an overall analysis must be carried out with our European partners. It is the Council of Europe that drafts the recommendations on blood donation criteria. Blood establishments apply them. Let us wait for the conclusions of the working group set up! Data that are continuously maintained by the Federal Agency for Drugs and Health Products indicate that there is certainly no shortage of labile blood products at this time. In addition, I am able to inform you that I have sought the advice of the Higher Health Council on the appropriateness and possible conditions of a blood donation authorization for men who have had sex with men. I asked for this opinion a few weeks ago after your question was tabled. Mrs Caprasse, with regard to your specific questions, the Council of Europe working group has started its work. The evaluation of the exclusion criteria will be based on the conclusions of the working group. The aim will be to examine whether the exclusion measures of men who have sex with men should be adapted to the needs. At this stage, we see no reason to send a letter to the Advocate General of the European Court of Justice. I assume that you are asking your question following the latter's opinion in Case C-528/13 against the French Minister of Social Affairs and Health and the French blood establishments. It is useful to point out that no judgement has yet taken place in this case. This is only an opinion by which the Court is not bound. As soon as a judgment is delivered in this case, I will not fail to examine its compliance with our legislation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic083x.u52	Madam President, Minister, thank you. I feel your will to move forward and to ensure that this stigma can be converted into an acquiescence for the donation of blood. I think important steps could be taken.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic083x.u53	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. Indeed, it is a pleasure to see that you have already reacted to my November question. We will continue to pay attention in this area because there is still an injustice to some people. When you give your blood, you're responsible. Whether homosexual or heterosexual, the people who make this gesture do so vis-à-vis society and should be taken into account in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic083x.u54	Let us hope that we will succeed because these questions have come back every three or four months for many years and it would be interesting to find a solution.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic083x.u55	It's starting to move all over the country.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic083x.u56	That's right. There is indeed convergence.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic083x.u57	Madam President, Minister, Down Syndrome is the first cause of genetic mental deficiency and affects one in seven hundred children. Thus, in our country, more than three out of four pregnant women want to test for this disease because the stakes of prenatal screening are considerable. In order to obtain an estimate of the risk of their fetus carrying Down syndrome, women undergo a blood biochemistry and ultrasound. In the event of a proven high risk, an invasive test, usually an amniocentesis, is performed to confirm or reverse the first diagnosis. It is estimated that around 5,000 invasive tests are carried out each year in Belgium. However, there are several disadvantages to this approach: the number of undetected fetuses with Down syndromes and the number of false positives remain high. In addition, it appears that these invasive tests tend to increase the risk of miscarriage following puncture. An alternative to this approach exists. This is the NIPT prenatal test. The advantages of this method are multiple. It has a non-invasive character - it is a simple blood sample - and is much more sensitive and accurate than the conventional test. Unfortunately, it remains expensive since its cost amounts to almost 460 euros. In an opinion issued by the Supreme Council of Health (SHC), NIPT can be included in the prenatal screening procedure for T21 for all pregnant women. The CSS recommends that the NIPT should preferably be used as a primary test instead of the combined test rather than as a second line, i.e. after a positive combined test. According to the KCE report, compared to the current prenatal screening for Down syndrome 21, appropriate use of NIPT, whether first or second line, clearly improves the benefit/benefit ratio. risk. Minister, I have no doubt that you have read these opinions. Do you therefore consider it appropriate to introduce the practice of this test in a more general way? If so, to what extent? Could a pilot project be considered? According to KCE, in order to offer NIPT to all pregnant women as a first-line test, its cost is expected to decrease to around 150 euros. Is this possible under the new budget for health care? Are you considering a refund of this test? If so, what order should it be?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic083x.u58	Madam President, Mr Senesael, I have read these opinions. It seems to me that this test could be introduced into the health care nomenclature. Given the current price of the test, the budgetary context and the different scenarios evaluated in the KCE report, the scenarios of secondary screening with a three-way test positivity threshold of one in six hundred or one in three hundred, fiscally neutral or cost-saving, respectively, would probably be preferred. This should in any case be the subject of soon-to-be consultation with the providers concerned within the Medical Technical Council, which, as you know, makes proposals to adjust the reimbursement.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic083x.u59	Minister, thank you for that answer. Let us wait until we have more elements to be able to continue the reflection.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic083x.u60	Madam President, Minister, we have all read that The New England Medical Journal, one of the most important medical journals in the world, has reported that the e-cigarette can contain 15 times more carcinogenic substances than tobacco. The problem would be due to the battery of more than five volts. If the battery is malfunctioning, there is a high risk of increased concentrations of carcinogenic substances. In November last year scientists from the Japanese Ministry of Health came to a similar conclusion. They found that an e-cigarette contains up to ten times more carcinogenic substances than ordinary tobacco. However, the e-cigarette often has the image of gadget and is also promoted as being less harmful or even as a tool to quit smoking. Last year a more stringent tobacco directive was adopted by Europe. In electronic cigarettes, flavour enhancers are allowed, but nicotine content is limited to 20 milligrams per milliliter. National authorities may choose how the sale of these e-cigarettes is organised. They will either be for sale in ordinary trade or be considered a medicinal product and will therefore be put into circulation through the corresponding legislation. Refills are allowed, but they must be safe. Those are the terms. Electronic cigarettes and ordinary tobacco products are subject to the same publicity rules. Madam Secretary, I would have liked to ask you the following questions. Firstly, the Foundation against Cancer calls for a more stringent European approach to the e-cigarette. A number of issues have already been addressed through the Tobacco Directive adopted last year. How is the e-cigarette currently being addressed in Belgium? Is there no need for a new systematic evaluation of the use of the e-cigarette in Belgium? Secondly, scientists call for a thorough study of the harmful substances released by the e-cigarette. Did you know about that? Have studies been carried out on this in Belgium? Can you give me more information about that?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic083x.u61	Madam Secretary, in The New England Journal of Medicine, a study by the University of Portland has been published on the e-cigarette, which my colleague has already mentioned. That e-cigarette has a very dangerous side. At high evaporation temperatures, the carcinogenic substance releases formaldehyde. I will not repeat what Mr Van Hoof has already said, but there seems to be a problem with the heavier five-volt cigarettes. What worries me in this particular case is that it is like the e-cigarette that people use to get rid of smoking. There is now a risk that the use of something that should help to become healthier will make one just unhealthy. I think we should pay attention to that. Users would inhale up to 14 milligrams of formaldehyde a day, which means that e-cigarettes would be five to fifteen times more harmful than ordinary tobacco. In the meantime, there are also scientists who are relativizing that, but the least one can say is that one is not quite sure how harmful e-cigarettes are actually. It is clear, however, that they have a considerable influence if we know that formaldehyde is classified in the category of carcinogenic substances. Madam Secretary, my questions are as simple as they are concrete. Are you aware of the dangers of the electronic cigarette? Will you take measures to prohibit the use of the e-cigarette or will you take other measures in this regard?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic083x.u62	It is clear, as previous speakers have said, that there is still a great deal of uncertainty about the effects of the e-cigarette and its role as an alternative to the cigarette and as a means of reducing smoking. This is also mentioned in the new European directive which came into force in 2014 and which you now have to transpose into Belgian policy. Crucial in this story is the way we approach the e-cigarette: do we see this as a smoke-stopper or as an alternative, possibly a healthier way of smoking? At the moment this cigarette is only available in the pharmacy and I think that gives a slightly false feeling of health. Madam Minister, there is still a great deal of uncertainty about the use. How do you assess the use of the e-cigarette? Do you consider them harmful? If yes, based on what studies and data? Will you have any studies on this yourself in the future? Do you consider it necessary to review the use and sale of the e-cigarette? If so, what measures are you considering?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic083x.u63	Madam Secretary, last in line I can make it short. A lot of things have already been said. I notice that there is as much scientific research as one claims. There are believers and nonbelievers of the e-cigarette. This is also reflected in the results of various studies which point to the advantages rather than the dangers. We have strict European guidelines in terms of quality. We are mainly concerned with the e-cigarette. Are you going to convert it? Can you put a deadline on this? So what will our legislation say about this? I would like to join my fellow Members in asking whether you will have any further research carried out yourself. What choice do you make in these investigations? Are you in favour of the current that strongly points to the dangers or do you have a different opinion?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic083x.u64	You're not the last speaker.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic083x.u65	Madam President, Minister, as everyone knows, electronic cigarettes are not candy. The press recently reported a debate about the carcinogenicity of electronic cigarettes, such as the study published in the New England Journal of Medicine. In addition, other figures are inquiring, in particular with regard to children. For example, the Cancer Foundation recalled how toxic the fluids used to recharge electronic cigarettes could be. In fact, children are the first potential victims. According to some statistics, in the USA there were 1,351 accidents due to these liquids in 2012, with a major increase especially for children. In addition to this, other articles have appeared in well-known journals on the subject. For example, Addiction, in July 2014, demonstrated that electronic cigarettes were less harmful than cigarettes, but that they could also help control how to stop smoking; nevertheless, their long-term effects were difficult to assess. Currently, in Belgium, until the European Directive is transposed, i.e. in 2016, electronic cigarettes containing nicotine and those claiming cessation aid are treated as medicinal products and can therefore only be sold in pharmacies. Besides this, some electronic cigarettes do not contain nicotine and do not allege any help with smoking cessation: they are on over-the-counter. However, they may contain the products mentioned in the New England Journal of Medicine, such as formaldehyde. Madam Minister, what is the situation in Belgium with regard to the sale of cigarettes outside the pharmacy, i.e. without nicotine but which may contain certain harmful products? Are there any controls in these places of sale on the contents of these articles and compliance with the legislation? Are there cases in Belgium of poisoning by electronic cigarette refilling fluid, especially children? What is your agenda for the transposition of the European directive into Belgian law? It is always allowed to work faster and not wait until 2016. Since the Member States have some latitude, what course do you intend to give to this directive for Belgium?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic083x.u66	Minister, we know that smoking is an important problem and that many of our fellow citizens want to quit smoking. Different methods exist: patch, some drugs or electronic cigarettes, which have become fashionable. Since the latter is a matter of debate, we would like some clarification. Minister, what is the objective of the risks associated with the use of electronic cigarettes? The information varies. Therefore, the long-term effects of this product should be known. That's the crux of the problem. Do you have statistics to link the use of electronic cigarettes to health problems? What controls are being carried out by electronic cigarette manufacturers? What criteria should be met? My colleague explained at the moment that some were marketed in pharmacies, while others were on over-the-counter. It is therefore necessary to remain vigilant in this regard. Finally, I would like to know the agenda for the transposition of the European directive. Thank you for the clarification you can give me.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic083x.u67	Madam President, seven female MPs are concerned about the electronic cigarette. So I can't say that this doesn't live among people. First of all, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the legal framework which electronic cigarettes must comply with in Belgium has not changed since the appearance of these products on the market several years ago. We can distinguish between the following types of electronic cigarettes. Firstly, the electronic cigarettes containing tobacco or tobacco extracts. These must comply with the legal requirements for tobacco products as laid down in tobacco legislation. It is about rules on tobacco advertising, registration, etc. Secondly, the electronic cigarettes which do not contain tobacco but contain nicotine. They may not be marketed until they have been authorised to place them on the market as medicinal products. In practice, no e-cigarette of this type can currently be sold in Belgium as no authorisation for placing such cigarettes on the market was requested from the Federal Agency for Medicinal Products and Health Products. Thirdly, the electronic cigarettes containing neither tobacco nor nicotine. These must comply with the general product safety requirements. Under that condition, this type of product may be sold. The new European Tobacco Products Directive, which was approved in May 2014, contains a framework provision on electronic cigarettes. This Article allows Member States either to retain the status of medicinal products for electronic cigarettes containing nicotine or to apply the more specific rules laid down in the Directive. I have been informed of the various possible options in this area and will therefore be examined closely in the coming weeks. The aim is to draw up a coherent policy on the trade and use of the electronic cigarette in the short term. The services will therefore actively work on the elaboration of specific legislation to transpose the provisions of the Directive by May 2016 at the latest, but if it can be done sooner, it will certainly be done sooner. To date, I have not received any notices of poisoning or other adverse health effects due to 5 volt refills used in electronic cigarettes. To remove the remaining uncertainties regarding the safety of e-cigarettes, I asked in early January for an update of the October 2013 Health Council's opinion. Indeed, this specific area is evolving very quickly and the new opinion will help to achieve the essential overview of existing scientific knowledge. I've seen a lot of people in France with such an electronic cigarette. We can ban the electronic cigarette, but what if people buy it abroad and walk it on the street? We can ban them, but do we have anything in our hands to act against those people?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic083x.u68	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. It is clear, however, that the European tobacco directive was made when people were unaware of the carcinogenic substances of the e-cigarette, apart from nicotine, tobacco and other ingredients. I think that the High Council for Health should examine these elements so that we can develop our own policies. In this way, we may also be a precursor for other European Member States to withdraw the e-cigarette from the market or impose more stringent conditions. It is clear that the battery takes care of the cancer processing substances in the e-sigeret from 5 volts. The High Council for Health must clarify this, because the European tobacco directive ignores the cancer processing substances released from the battery. I believe that it is necessary to develop a policy of our own and to consider what action can be taken in Belgium to ban such cigarettes, from which, alongside nicotine, carcinogenic substances are released.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic083x.u69	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. I agree with Mrs Van Hoof's comment on our own policy. I would also urge, particularly in the light of the end of your reply, that our country take initiatives to ensure that the directive is translated into a policy that is as harmonious as possible with that in the countries around us. It is not possible for us to take measures which we have to establish afterwards that they are not useful because they are permitted in the Netherlands, for example. I therefore ask that we look at the problem at European level. Belgium may take the lead in this.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic083x.u70	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. It is clear that there will be a lot of work to be done in the coming months. I also look forward to the advice of the Supreme Health Council. You say that the directive will be transposed in the short term. You mentioned 2016. I was wondering if you had a specific timetable in mind? Mevrow Jiroflée said it was important for Belgium to take a leading role at European level. We must also consider whether we can be on the same lines with neighbouring countries.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic083x.u71	Madam Minister, a policy of quality is very important. That is what this is all about. If the transposition can be done earlier than 2016, then preferably earlier. I believe that measures are absolutely necessary when we see how many people use cigarettes in the streets and indoors. The vapour club has a huge number of members, all of whom supply themselves abroad. We need to tackle this phenomenon as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic083x.u72	Minister, it is true that electronic cigarettes have advantages if they can stop smoking. It also has drawbacks. Long-term carcinogenic effects are unknown. In addition, there is a risk of toxicity in children if they inhale the famous fluids intended to recharge the electronic cigarette. I would like to plead with you that, with a view to transposing this European directive, your services should be surrounded by experts available to us in Belgium. Our tobacco scientists know and understand these issues perfectly. They really need to be consulted and involved in the transposition of this directive. With regard to people using electronic cigarettes in public places, I would like to plead, Madam Minister, that this practice should be prohibited. One of the risks of this type of cigarette is that it will become a gateway for young people or non-smokers to traditional tobacco consumption. This cigarette must not become the model that would encourage other people, especially the youngest, and therefore the most vulnerable, to start smoking.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic083x.u73	I thank the minister for her answer. I think we need to take an initiative in this area. I am really looking forward to having proper information from the Higher Health Council. That's indispensable. We will be able to move forward as soon as this opinion is received, the last opinion from 2013. This electronic cigarette has evolved. It is a phenomenon of society and we must be careful.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic083x.u74	Madam Chair, Minister, I thank Ms.Jiroflée because I have to be absent and it was important that I ask this question now. For some serious conditions, including the immune system, plasma derivatives may be the only medicine. The blood is collected by the Red Cross, which sells the plasma to the Central Splitting Department (DCF), in charge of fractionation, which then sells the derivatives to Belgian hospitals. In 2009, the KCE examined whether Belgium had sufficient such derivatives to meet our needs in the event of a serious situation. At the time, the KCE had concluded that we did not have enough derivatives and that our policy of anticipation was not sufficient. He also wondered about the transparency of the management of the CFO which had become a cooperative society. In April 2014, provisions were made under the Law on Various Provisions to respond to some of the KCE's criticisms. Minister, my questions are two-fold. On the one hand, they concern the amount of stable derivatives, particularly for albumin and immunoglobulins. Are the needs covered by Belgian donors? How many litres of Belgian plasma are divided today by DCF? Should we fear a shortage of these stable derivatives in Europe, and therefore in Belgium, in the medium term? Does the Federal Medicines Agency have the skills and the means to detect market failure? Indeed, it is known that there are collaborations with other countries, also sometimes lacking in these derivatives. On the other hand, Madam Minister, my questions relate to a more urgent matter, namely the absence of orders to implement the new provisions made last year. The company responsible for splitting the plasma will have to be designated through a public tendering procedure. It will be necessary to ensure that this procedure complies with the rules of transparency and Community law. In addition, it is known that Belgian hospitals must supply 100% albumin and 50% immunoglobulins to DCF. Will this provision apply during the transitional period, i.e. pending enforcement orders? Are hospitals ready to deal with this requirement? A mission officer was to be appointed. When will this be effective? Will it be allowed to split other products and export them abroad? These issues are of concern to both hospitals and stakeholders involved in these derivatives. Only a publication of the implementing orders could shed light on these different actors.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic083x.u75	Gerkens, the Central Splitting Department (CDF) currently provides 95% of the Belgian market's albumin and immunoglobulin requirements. The batches come exclusively from plasma collected in Belgian blood establishments. DCF distributed 190,000 litres of plasma collected in Belgium in 2013 and 200,000 litres in 2014. At present, no European country is able to meet its needs for stable plasma derivatives and therefore to ensure self-sufficiency. That is why it is important to put in place a plan to cover it. The Federal Agency for Medicines and Health Products has a wide range of expertise to monitor the market and identify possible malfunctions. Indeed, it exercises control over all blood establishments. It therefore benefits from access to qualitative and quantitative data. It also controls the Central Splitting Department, which produces stable plasma derivatives, as well as all other producers that may be located abroad. In addition, it oversees the distribution chain of all these products. Finally, in collaboration with the SPF Économie and INAMI, she is aware of the quantities used in Belgium. I shall ensure that the procedure submitted to the public invitation to tender with a view to appointing the mission officer whose question in the law of 10 April 2014 is conducted in a transparent manner. Texts still to be adopted will guarantee it, particularly in terms of equality. Prior to the appointment of the Head of Mission, the royal decrees necessary for the organization of the transitional period, which had been entrusted to the Central Division of Splitting, should be adopted as soon as possible. Without this arrest, we can't move forward. Given the end of the previous legislature, no more useful initiatives were taken for implementation. This is why it is planned to postpone the entry into force until 2016 by means of an adaptation of the law. In the meantime, consultations are held with the parties concerned, including hospitals. My services will set a specific timetable, taking into account the consultation process. In addition, it is necessary to adopt the procedures which will determine the procedure for public invitations to tender and finally to appoint the person responsible for the mission. It will have obligations vis-à-vis Belgium, particularly in times of shortage, but its activities should not be limited to Belgian territory. For example, the DCF already works 80 per cent in a way for other partners. The important thing is that it meets the obligations of its mission in transition. I ask my services to ensure the best possible follow-up on this issue, but it is true that there is a delay due to the period without government. I can't make up for this delay. It is very important that hospitals are consulted beforehand and are ready to adapt.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic083x.u76	Thank you for your answer. I think it is a wise step to postpone the entry into force and to take steps to ensure the transition. Uncertainty prevents actors from fulfilling their obligations. I hear the consultations are under way. I assume that you will make these changes through the various provisions of the law or the health law that is about to be introduced in March or April. Your answer already makes it possible to reframe things.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic083x.u77	Madam Minister, I asked you a question about this a while ago. You replied that an RB is being worked on so that medicinal products based on cannabis that have a marketing authorisation would no longer be subject to the conditions of the RB of 4 July 2001. In practical terms, this would mean that the delivery of such medicinal products would be possible in a pharmacy. By the way, at the moment, it would only be one medicine. You also mentioned a report of the General Cell on Drugs policy which was due to be terminated and from which conclusions could be drawn. Recently, the Belgian Medical Cannabis Covenant vzw was established. The association calls for an open debate on the medical use of cannabis. We also believe, apart from that, that a substantive debate on the issue should be initiated. The results of research in this field can no longer be ignored. Do you already have a look at the timing of the KB that makes it possible to sell medicinal cannabis? What is the status of the General Cell Drug Policy report? Will you enter into dialogue with the new association?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic083x.u78	Mrs Jiroflée, the Council of State's opinion on the provision of Sativex, a spray agent for a specific indication in MS patients, was received in the week of 2 February. The comments obtained are currently being processed by the Federal Agency for Medicinal Products and Health Products and the necessary steps will be taken thereafter to continue the process. This is a different matter from the one with which the technical working group set up by the General Cell Drugs Policy is concerned. She gave her last reading of the report at the end of January and now completes the report. She will also hand it over to the General Cell Drugs Policy, who will discuss it. Again, I note that the report does not deal with medicinal cannabis. The report does deal with other aspects such as epidemiology, prevention, treatment, police, justice and legislative framework. The new general drug policy cell has not yet been established, but would meet for the first time at the beginning of March.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic083x.u79	Madam President, Minister, I am well aware that this is indeed about two different issues, but I would have liked to have had a state of affairs. In fact, I have not really received an answer to my last question, namely whether you are entering into dialogue with this new association.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic083x.u80	I'm willing to talk to anyone, but I haven't received a request from them to receive me. By the way, you know that all of Belgium wants to talk to me, so why shouldn't I talk to those people?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic083x.u81	That's because of your popularity.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic083x.u82	Madam President, Madam Minister, the Royal Decree of 15 December 2013 also allows chronically ill people to benefit from an official statute, allowing for a maximum invoice and the application of the third-party payment scheme. The third-payer scheme would be an option in 2014 and would become mandatory from 2015. In the search for this measure, I found a contradiction. According to the mutualities, the third party payment scheme is mandatory for each transaction. According to the RIZIV website, the automatic award of the third-party payment scheme is only valid for a number of benefits in kind. However, it would still be waiting for the list she lists. Madam Minister, when does the third-party payment scheme for persons with the status of chronic illness apply? Is it automatically applied? It is reported that not all general practitioners want to apply a third-party payment scheme for their patients. How can patients enforce their application? Can you spread a new communication for the doctors and patients, now that the third-payer scheme is mandatory from this month on?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic083x.u83	Madam President, Mrs Vanheste, it was stated during the presentation of the policy paper, during the government statement and also during the discussion of the programme law of 19 December 2014 that the government decided at the present stage to introduce the compulsory social third party payment scheme only to the general practitioners. With effect from 1 July 2015, the scheme shall apply in respect of rightholders to the increased allowance. The King will have the possibility of extending that compulsory social third party payment scheme to other categories of social insurance in the future. This additional extension of the mandatory system will only be achieved after an evaluation of the first phase of the renewed third party payment scheme. This is about the compulsory third-party payment scheme. However, it is also possible to apply the third party payment scheme on an optional basis, and anyone can do so. In this case, chronic patients may agree, in consultation with their GP, that the patient can enjoy a third-party payment. This application is therefore not yet automatic. The RIZIV is indeed working on a communication plan aimed at both health care providers and patients, in the light of the work on implementing the compulsory social third-party payment scheme for general practitioners.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic083x.u84	Madam Minister, I hope, of course, that the renewed third-party payment scheme will come soon. As far as its optional application is concerned, most patients ask for it, but there are doctors who won't allow it. Those who ask are often the ones who need the system. So I hope this will be done soon.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic083x.u85	Madam Minister, I am asking this question as a result of a recent Telefacts report on the meanwhile well-known grapefruit net which was apparently recognised as an implant. When I look at the procedure, I see that an implant must only have a certificate obtained from the so-called notified bodies, which have been recognised by the European Commission and are solely responsible for the approval of the conformity of the production process, i.e. not at all for the operation or quality of the article. The proper functioning of these notified bodies is crucial for the quality monitoring and safety of medical devices. However, a large number of notified bodies do not take into account the safety and quality of the implants they have certified. This has already been reported in a professional journal, a number of years ago. These bodies often compete against each other and promote themselves in terms of the speed and simplicity with which they can approve applications. There are even situations where companies are told that their implant, which had already been rejected, will still be approved if extra money is thrown into it. There is another problem. Our country does supervise the notified bodies here, but not those in other countries. However, a company may as well have its implant recognised by a notified body abroad, where there is no insight into the procedure and quality. Madam Secretary, I have two questions for you. Firstly, will you raise this issue at European level, aware of the problem and of the gaps in the current procedure? Will you ask for measures to improve the quality and effectiveness of the notified bodies? Do you see any benefit in making notified bodies subject to national competence, rather than European competence? Implants for the national market should then be approved by the national notified body. Another option would be to carry out an evaluation in cooperation with other Member States, so that the international notified bodies are also checked and so that Belgium has a finger in the mouth there too. Secondly, why is only the production process for an implant targeted and not its operation and safety in the body? The FAGG only acknowledges the notified bodies. Do you also consider having the FAGG check the quality of the implants in terms of material, safety and operation? Why is that, or why not?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic083x.u86	Madam Minister, in mid-January we heard in the media how easy it is to get something recognised as an implant. The TV program "Telefacts" took the test and didn't even have to make it difficult: a literature study was made up, went to the supermarket for a grapefruit net, and hopla, a medical implant got recognition. That worries me. It's not the first time anything goes wrong with implants. In the previous legislature, we had the file on the PIP implants, which started leaking, and no one could say exactly who she had certified. After that debacle it was therefore time to lay down at least some basic rules. Unlike the pharmaceutical sector, which is heavily regulated by, among other things, prior authorisations and clinical trials, the medical devices sector is under-protected. I am aware that European legislation is something that a Member State cannot just touch. In addition, we are faced with a huge lobbying machine from the industry. If countries want to introduce small regulations, they are immediately attacked by producers with procedures before the European Commission and the European Court of Justice. Madam Secretary, what position do you take on the problem of implants and prostheses? What measures do you take vis-à-vis Europe to ensure that even more of these fruits and other devices are not recognised as medical devices without sufficient proof of their operation? Are you in favour of stricter regulation of the market for implants and prostheses, along the lines of the pharmaceutical market? Will you argue in favour of this, I really hope, with your European colleagues? How far is the implementation of the medical devices plan, which still has to be carried out by royal decree, and which, among other things, should ensure the traceability of the implants? What has already happened and what is the timetable according to which full implementation will be ensured? This is purely health protection, without affecting the European internal market, so that is purely national competence.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic083x.u87	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your questions. The issue is certainly well known at European level and is also being fully discussed in the light of the review of European legislation on medical devices. After the problems with or the scandal of breast implants, which my predecessor has had his hands full, a plan for immediate action was put in place by the then European Commissioner. One of the main action points was the increased control for notified bodies or notified bodies. In order to ensure more uniform supervision of notified bodies, which is a national competence, a joint assessment plan was drawn up throughout Europe. In a first phase, these joint assessments were carried out on a voluntary basis. Inspectors of the FAGG also participated in these joint assessments. An interim overview report of these missions can already be found on the website of the Notified Body Operations Group, www.nbog.eu. This Notified Body Operations Group is the steering committee of the notifying authorities. Recently, these joint assessments were also required for the first designation of a notified body, an extension of the designation or a grant of the designation. The two Belgian notified bodies will have a joint assessment for the renewal of their designation in 2015, in particular in February and November. As for your request to have implants for the national market approved by a national notified body, I would like to say that this is a difficult exercise. This would assume that any notified body would have all the necessary expertise for all possible various implants on the market. Moreover, this may be contrary to the European directives on the mutual recognition and free market of goods and services. As far as the production process is concerned, in our country the FAGG is the notifying body for notified bodies. In addition to enhanced checks on notified bodies, checks are also planned on the production, distribution, publicity, delivery and traceability of medical devices, as well as on clinical studies with medical devices and increased materiovigilance. In addition, illegal trafficking in medical devices will also be addressed. A central tracing register has already been developed and is currently in the form of a pilot project, in which a number of hospitals participate on a voluntary basis. Through a secure web system, the notifications of implantation and implantation of implants, as well as changes, can be inserted into this central tracking register. On the basis of the data entered, an implant card can be generated using the information for the patient, including information on the implant, the distribution circuit and the implantation. It is intended to generalise this system for all hospitals at the beginning of 2016 and then also in the private institutions. Other developments are also taking place in the field of medical devices. An example of this is the forthcoming publication of the provisions setting up a network of reporting points on material vigilance in order to improve the management of the reported incidents. It is no coincidence that soon the royal decree will also appear that the vigilance around these medical devices should be strengthened. With this I continue the work started by my predecessor in the aftermath of the leaking breast implants. The essence is that responsibility can no longer be passed on. Each hospital and distributor must designate within their circle one responsible for the vigilance of medical devices. So we are going to create a real network, so that it does not become completely embedded. In the case of the first phenomenon to be noted, this can then be reported immediately to the FAGG. We must act quickly and effectively. We can do anything to avoid such facts. We also draw lessons from the past, not only with breast implants, but also with the squeezing hips. The Royal Decree also states what information the distributors are legally obliged to report to the government. If they do not, they commit an offence and risk a sentence, ranging from prison time to very high fines. The failure to report that an implant or its malfunction was at the root of a serious deterioration in the patient's health is, of course, paramount. As mentioned above, the pilot project is currently being evaluated by the FAGG and we will see that early 2016 will be rolled out in hospitals. We're going on with the work. Let's get on with it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic083x.u88	Madam Minister, I would like to thank you for the answer with encouraging signals, especially since you will be focusing on material vigilance and on the quality of the notified bodies, where additional controls can certainly improve. What I do miss is that the recognition of the implants is based on the production process and much less on its operation and safety in the body. The need to register the material so that it can be traced back from where it came from when it does not meet the quality requirements is a good thing. However, in the preparatory process, I think that we should check whether only the production process is sufficient to ensure that the quality is approved and that a certificate is obtained.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic083x.u89	Thank you, Minister, for your detailed reply. Madam Secretary, I am glad that you and the previous Minister are both here. The debates we have had in Parliament have enabled us to take steps forward in our country. As far as Europe is concerned, I still have my doubts. I think it could go faster there. I am delighted that you have both taken that responsibility and that you want to strengthen vigilance on the ground. I think that's essential. If everyone is well aligned in this area, those who want to abuse will refrain from doing so more quickly. I'm convinced of that, so I think that's a good piste.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic083x.u90	Madam President, Minister, the National AIDS Plan, on which we worked together, is a cross-cutting plan at the level of federal government members and also regional and community governments. This plan, which we both signed, is spread over five years. It was adopted in November 2013 and provides for evaluation and follow-up. Today, a little more than a year after its adoption, it would be interesting to take stock. Minister, is the AIDS group meeting regularly? What is the status of this series of actions that we considered urgent? What about the development of the HIV registry for which a budget had been made available within INAMI? What is the status of the launch of two new care centres? Namur and Bruges had been chosen. What is the status of the pre-exposure treatment pilot experiment? In this regard, there was funding from the King Baudouin Foundation. What about the Decentralized Screening Pilot Project? On the other hand, you said you couldn't afford to pay a coordinator. These are savings of candlesticks, while the project is worth it. If the large health care budget does not allow you to do this, perhaps you could ask your administration to work on it. In doing so, centralization, coordination, monitoring, evaluation and monitoring of the AIDS plan could be carried out by one or one of its members at no additional cost. Finally, what new priority action(s) have you chosen, among the other actions of the plan, for 2015?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic083x.u91	Madam President, Mrs Onkelinx, first of all, it has been agreed, with the representatives of the Communities and the Regions, to entrust the coordination of this plan to the working group which will also be responsible for the management of chronic diseases. This plan includes a number of actions needed to improve the care and quality of life of AIDS patients, but also of most other chronically ill patients. Unfortunately, the National Plan to Combat HIV has not been accompanied by a concrete review of its funding. It is therefore within the framework of existing budgets that we need to work on; that is what we are currently looking at. The integration of the implementation of this plan into a cross-cutting approach to care and prevention for chronic patients makes it possible to move forward by avoiding a dispersion of means. In addition, this approach should lead to greater coherence in the care of these people and avoid an overabundance of specific rules and administrative procedures for care providers depending on the patient's pathology. Thus, many aspects of the care and quality of life of patients living with HIV (Chapters 6 and 7 of the plan) that fall within my competence are already under review. The means must of course be found within our administration. Other plans had the same problem. This is not always easy, especially as savings are needed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic083x.u92	Minister, with respect to the savings to be realized, it is the government that chooses – we must not – to achieve them in the health care sector. Given the AIDS plan, whether federal, regional or community, each had to file a funding plan. We did. I therefore do not understand you when you say that it is important to find ways. That's not true! We had decided on a financing plan and had found additional resources in the context of another burden sharing (INAMI, Fondation Roi Baudouin, etc.).). My questions about the two new centres and the pilot treatment experience remained unanswered. Perhaps I should say that again at a later meeting. I also don't know your new priorities, except what has been achieved. You are telling me that coordination consists of a working group on chronic diseases. It was not at all in this sense that we considered it. We wanted a specialized person to follow up on the matter. Additional resources are not required. We can find a qualified person in our administration. I allow myself to be quite disappointed. I would remind you that there are three contaminations a day, which cannot be taken lightly. I will come back with new questions so that you can clarify the follow-up to the plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic083x.u93	There was indeed a funding plan, but the means were not yet foreseen.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic083x.u94	A plan for which everyone had agreed!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic083x.u95	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic083x.u96	Yet you had your agreement!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic083x.u97	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic083x.u98	Did I say otherwise? There are three contaminations a day! There are lots of urgent things!
