ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-plenair-ip059x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-plenair-ip059x.u2	The President [[in front of the assembly standing]] : Dear colleagues, horror and barbarity. These are the two words which, alas, apply to the day of Friday, 26 June, during which we witnessed a real overbidding in terror. In the tourist resort of Sousse, in the northeast of Tunisia, 38 innocent and innocent tourists lost their lives and numerous wounded fell into a barbaric terrorist attack claimed by IS. As you know, one of our countrymen was killed in that attack. In an attack against a Shia mosque in Kuwait 26 were killed and 227 injured. Finally, near Lyon, an individual beheaded his employer and then carried out an attack on a gas plant. How can we not be revolted at such barbarity? How can we not be repulsed in the face of such a horrific and affronting deployment? At times politics is shifting to the background and the political company, which otherwise is so passionate about us, suddenly seems less important in the light of the hard current situation. Once again, these tragic events have reminded us that terrorism is the main challenge we are facing right now. It is only through solidarity and international cooperation that we will succeed in defeating those who want to destabilize our societies through violence and terror. The Chamber condemns these atrocities, committed by individuals for whom the life of a human being has no value whatsoever, in the strongest terms. No doctrine, no religion should undermine or destroy human dignity. I have expressed our condolences and indignation to the authorities of the countries affected by these attacks, on behalf of the Chamber, on behalf of all of you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-plenair-ip059x.u3	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Government, I would like to associate myself with the comments you have just made and to express our deepest sympathy, our deepest emotion, but also our determination, our deepest sympathy for the victims, their families, the peoples affected – whether in Kuwait, Tunisia or France. I would also like, on behalf of the government, to reiterate our collective determination to fight for freedom and our fundamental rights, whether they speak here or elsewhere in the world.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-plenair-ip059x.u4	In accordance with the opinion of today's Conference of Presidents, I propose that we re-examine the following requests for urgent procedure. In accordance with the opinion of today's Conference of Presidents, I propose that we take a decision on the following urgent requests. 1. Draft law amending the Law of 21 March 1991 on the reform of certain public economic enterprises, No. 1187/1. 1. Draft law amending the Act of 21 March 1991 on the reform of certain public economic enterprises, No. 1187/1. I would suggest that we speak on this question. I propose that we take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-plenair-ip059x.u5	2. Draft law amending the Law of 15 December 1980 on access to the territory, residence, establishment and expulsion of foreign nationals in order to take better account of the threats to society and national security in applications for international protection, No. 1197/1. 2. Draft law amending the Act of 15 December 1980 on the entry, residence, establishment and removal of aliens with a view to better taking into account threats to society and national security in applications for international protection, No. 1197/1. I would suggest that we speak on this question. I propose that we take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-plenair-ip059x.u6	3. Draft law to strengthen the fight against terrorism, No. 1198/1. 3. Draft law to strengthen the fight against terrorism, No. 1198/1. I would suggest that we speak on this question. I propose that we take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-plenair-ip059x.u7	4. Law amending the Law of 16 January 2013 on various measures relating to the fight against maritime piracy, No. 1199/1. 4. Bill amending the Act of 16 January 2013 on various measures to combat maritime piracy, No. 1199/1. I would suggest that we speak on this question. I propose that we take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-plenair-ip059x.u8	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes [[80]] Yes No. 57 No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 138 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1026/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1026/4) Mr Kir voted against.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-plenair-ip059x.u9	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 2) Yes [[80]] Yes No. 59 No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 140 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1027/6) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1027/6)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-plenair-ip059x.u10	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 3) Yes 136 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 138 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft. (1057/5) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a draft for Royal Assent. (1057/5)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-plenair-ip059x.u11	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes [[113]] Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 27 Abstensions Total [[140]] Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1135/5) Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1135/5)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-plenair-ip059x.u12	Reason for abstention? Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-plenair-ip059x.u13	Mr President, I wanted to justify the abstention of our group, which approves certain measures such as the abolition of extra fees in a double room and in a common room during day-time hospitalizations. Nevertheless, we want to raise the issue of funding hospital institutions that are experiencing difficult budgetary situations. We will have to find a solution to this problem. Even though we are pleased that general practitioners will have to apply the third-party fee for patients receiving the increased procedures, as initiated by the previous minister, we regret that the measure is mandatory only from 1 October. We also regret that the measure is not extended to chronic diseases, as originally planned.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-plenair-ip059x.u14	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 5) Yes 104 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 36 Abstensions Total [[140]] Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1127/4) Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1127/4) Reason for abstention? Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-plenair-ip059x.u15	By letter dated 24 June 2015, the Ecolo-Green Group of the European Parliament informed me that Mr Jean-Marc Nollet would be appointed as group chairman from 1 July 2015. By letter dated 24 June 2015, the Ecolo-Groen Group of the House informed me of the appointment of Mr Jean-Marc Nollet as group chairman from 1 July 2015. Congratulations!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-plenair-ip059x.u16	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Nathalie Muylle, Els Van Hoof, Nahima Lanjri. I propose that a single discussion be devoted to this bill and this bill. I propose that you devote one discussion to this bill and to this bill. [[Sentiment]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-plenair-ip059x.u17	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-plenair-ip059x.u18	Mr President, I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-plenair-ip059x.u19	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the bill on various health provisions collects various necessary and useful measures in the field of health care. Among other things, the following measures are part of the package. I deliberately start with the measures that directly benefit the patient: more transparent information for the patient on the financial side of health care; the strengthening of patient participation through an additional subsidy to patient associations to help strengthen their representation; the social maximum invoice for children with disabilities; the lifting of honorary supplements in double or multi-person rooms in day hospitalisation; the reduction of flat-rate fees for medical imaging and clinical biology; the establishment of a legal regulation on brake fees for live organ donors; the obligation for mutualities to increase financial transparency and the establishment of an information exchange system between fertility centres in relation to excess embryo progenitors and gametes.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-plenair-ip059x.u20	Colleagues, when someone speaks, it is appropriate to listen.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-plenair-ip059x.u21	Thank you, Mr President. So that was a non-exhaustive list of the elements that benefit patients. In addition, I am giving a number of measures, including the structural involvement of the care professional in home care within the compulsory health insurance, a register of heavy equipment inside and outside hospitals, the financing of hospitals in the event of epidemic or pandemic and adjustments to enable the election of the Order of Doctors. The Committee discussed the draft law at its meeting on 16 June 2015. In the vote on the whole, there were 11 votes in favour and two abstentions. The articles were amended, inter alia, to the Royal Decree No. 78 on the pursuit of the health professions. On Thursday 18 June 2015, the Royal Decree of 10 May 2015 coordinating the Royal Decree No. 78 from 1967 on the pursuit of health care professions published in the Belgian Official Journal. As a result of that publication, it was necessary to make corrections to the text adopted by the Health Committee. These amendments are purely legal and technical. Instead of the provisions of former Royal Decree No. 78 to be amended, the corresponding provisions of the Health Care Occupations Act, coordinated on 10 May 2015, are amended and reference is made to the provisions of the latter Act. Material adaptations were therefore made to the proposed Articles 59, 75, 76 and 76 partim. These changes will be included in the text adopted by the plenary.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-plenair-ip059x.u22	Mr President, we have had an extremely positive and constructive discussion in committee. Each had the opportunity to deliver its opinion on the provisions presented. On behalf of the MR, I would like to point out that the various provisions give concrete expression to the points of the government agreement. We can only rejoice in that. Patients and providers, including pharmacists and medical imaging technologists, are directly affected in the right sense. Transparency measures are also foreseen, particularly at the level of insurers. We are also reassured of the acquired rights and language rights that have been drawn up in agreement with the National Council of the Order of Physicians, in order to allow the necessary modifications for the upcoming elections.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-plenair-ip059x.u23	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Madam Minister, I too will be brief. It has indeed already been discussed in committee. We, too, welcome this draft law because it contains matters of great concern to us, for example in relation to accessibility and affordable care. I am thinking here of the abolition of pay supplements in double or multi-person rooms in day hospitalization, the extension of the social invoice, but also of the provisions on compulsory third-party payment at the general practitioner for 1.9 million patients with preferential treatment. That's important to us. It takes pragmatic account of the comments from the field. Transparency is also important for our group, and I am thinking of the provisions relating to sickness funds. With this draft, they will now be required to publish their statutes and annual accounts. This is not an end for us either. In the long term, we hope that there will be full transparency in the way the sickness funds use the resources they receive from the public authorities. It is also important for us to pay attention to the new benefits. From now on, the sickness funds will need the approval of these benefits of the Landsbond's board of directors. That too is a first step which, as far as we are concerned, can go further and become evidence-based medicine. As my colleague, Mr Capoen, has played a role in this, I would also like to say that it is a good thing that the Minister intervenes and, with this draft, ensures that counsellors can no longer enjoy a social status. There are also issues about patient involvement, about more clear accounts or about patient associations that are better involved. In short, a law containing various provisions has a vague title, but that does not mean that there are no matters in the law that are very important to us. I would like to mention two more: the abolition of the brake money for people who donate in life, and finally a duty to communicate between fertility centres on the six-woman rule. That is a first step in a dossier which I personally hope will be followed by many more. To conclude, our group will support this draft because it contains very important things for us.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-plenair-ip059x.u24	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, laws containing various provisions are sometimes referred to as "dirty litter laws'. However, that is not the case here. The draft law before us contains a whole series of technical provisions, but also a number of substantive, very relevant and important measures. This draft law takes a number of measures that will increase access to health care. I am thinking, for example, of the compulsory third-payer scheme in the general practitioner for persons who benefit from an increased allowance, the extension of the social maximum invoicing and the prohibition of pay supplements in double or multi-person rooms in day hospitalization. This government is accused of saving, even saving on care. That is not the case at all; it is these measures that bear witness to the removal of barriers to care for people who are less broad. We are also pleased that measures are being taken to reduce or eliminate the brake money for persons who choose to help a person in distress through organ donation. It is not possible for someone who makes such an altruistic act to be financially punished for it. The financial transparency of our healthcare system will also be increased, both at the level of the evidence, linked to the electronic invoicing and third-payer scheme, as well as to the transparency of the sickness funds, which will have to make their statutes public and will have to submit their annual accounts to the National Bank of Belgium. Last but not least, we also note that patients' associations are being upgraded, both financially and in terms of representation on the board of the Health Care Knowledge Centre. This bill therefore deserves our full support.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-plenair-ip059x.u25	Mr President, Minister, in general the draft law before us today contains a number of good things. I would like to give a few examples, such as the earlier mentioned, of the accelerated granting of the social ceiling to children with disabilities. Of course, we can always count on our support for measures that strengthen the maximum invoicing logic. There is also a first step towards reform of the Order of Doctors. I would like to ask you immediately when we can expect a real reform of the Order. The changes to the draft law are a start, but they do not solve a number of operational problems that are now there with the Order. We all agree that the ban on supplements in double and multiple rooms at day hospitalization is a very good decision. The sp.a wants to table amendments. Mrs Detiège will be discussing the third-payer scheme, Mrs Jiroflée on the advance payment scheme, and I myself will now be explaining the amendment on the ban on pay supplements in single rooms. The draft law before the vote abolishes supplements in double and multiple rooms, but only in day hospitalization. We do not believe that this can be an end in itself. We see that these single rooms are becoming increasingly expensive and that a number of people, who are not financially so broad, have problems with tariff uncertainty. Amendments Nos 9, 10 and 11 to the draft law propose the abolition of all pay supplements attached to a single room. It is not just about the supplements for the doctors, but also about the supplements for chamber material. We see that many people opt for a single room, but often they are also the people who can afford hospitalisation insurance. We also see that efforts have been made in recent years to drastically reduce the pay supplements, but those single rooms are still a pain. Figures show that they have a huge impact. In 2013, a patient paid an average of 453 euros at a hospital stay, which is of course an average, but in a double or multiple room it is only 293 euros. In a single room, the average amount of the invoice is 1 395 euros. This means a difference of 62 %. We also see very large regional differences. In Brussels, the patient bill is up to 2 322 euros, in Flanders only up to 1 078 euros. Finally, we see that 40% of hospitals have decided to limit the additional costs to a maximum of 100 % and 46 percent of hospitals have reduced the fee supplements to 200 %. Those supplements bring two dangers. So there is class medicine, a two-speed medicine. There's a medicine for people who can pay. They usually have insurance, which the hospitals use to generate additional resources, but actually it is paid through insurance and you know that we all pay those insurances ourselves. I know that there is a discussion in committee on the redrafting of hospital funding. That is why the amendment states that this would only enter into force on 1 January 2018. Now, after all, the argument is often used that single rooms and pay supplements balance the hospital's financial balance. We think that's a perverse system. Madam Secretary, you have said that you intend to put a great deal of energy into this. We hope that the redrafting of hospital funding will eliminate this perverse system.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-plenair-ip059x.u26	Mr. Speaker, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this bill with various health provisions brings together various measures that are positive measures, some of which have been expected and announced for some time. If we have co-signed several amendments with our colleagues in the Sp.a. and the PS, it is because we would have liked this bill to contain more things. It is with this comment that I will begin my speech. It is clear that reforming the Order of Physicians in its provisions concerning the organization of the Order between Brussels doctors, doctors of Flemish Brabant and those of the easy municipalities was a necessary and expected measure. Will the chosen option withstand all tests? That is to be seen, but I think that this proposal was well thought out with the doctors' representatives. We regret that there is no and that we do not have the opportunity to exchange between policies on a deeper reform of the Order of Physicians, knowing that a whole series of elements are to be corrected, corrected, reoriented as to its composition, as to the transparency of decisions and as to the division of responsibilities, sometimes with situations of judge and party and conflict of interest in the positions that the members of the organs of the Order must take. You told us that the Council of the Order was finalizing a document and that, no doubt, in September, it would present proposals for reform. I really hope that the majority here will accept – and you too, Madam Minister – that from that moment on, we can have discussions with the representatives of the Order in order to finalize these amendments in a bill or a bill. As far as hospitals are concerned, we can only welcome the extension to day hospitals of the ban on supplementation in a common room and two beds. I also welcome the measure aimed at better informing the patient of the cost to be borne. However, it is regrettable that the reflection has not been extended to all hospital rooms. Indeed, it is known that some of them find a parade to the limitation of supplements by transforming all their rooms into individual rooms in order to be able to request supplements. It is therefore necessary to continue the reflection within the framework of a fundamental reform of hospital financing, which is being prepared. In my view, it would be appropriate to inform the hospitals concerned that, as part of a financing reform, a measure to prohibit supplementation in single rooms could be or will be taken. This would make it possible to consider this reform in a more positive or comprehensive way. In addition, the third-party automatic fee for patients receiving preferential rates is currently limited to general practitioners as well as other professional categories such as nurses. We appreciate the fact that you are programming the expansion of this automaticity and the implementation of a tool for correct functioning, the recording of benefits, their registration and ensuring the insurability of patients. As a result, in my view, the measure of staggering between the categories of specialists or providers is a good measure. The measure to extend automaticity, without necessarily having to resort to the presentation of the identity card when the patient has a comprehensive medical record, is also an essential positive measure. In this regard, we still have a great deal of work to do to ensure that general practitioners are in possession of the medical records of each of their patients allowing them to have a holistic view of their health, and that the general practitioner is considered to be the health care provider's referral. This will avoid unnecessary use of second-line medication and/or specialized care. It is true that, with a view to generalisation and automaticity, it would have been interesting for automaticity and the paying third party to be generalised to all patients and to be applied more widely than only to general practitioners. We accept that things need to work technically, but we also need to enter into a dynamic that makes this automatic and accessible to a majority of patients, especially for front-line care. You now allow patient platforms to be present on the KCE Board of Directors. This is a good thing, and it was integrated into the reform on skills transfer. It was also a wish of the KCE. You give them additional means to enable them to fulfil their missions of representation and presence. It is very important to recognize them in their functions and to empower them to function. These patient platforms will be expected to link with patient associations. We know it takes time. For them to spend enough time on it, subsidies are needed. I believe that what is proposed corresponds to their wishes and needs. I stress the positive side of the announced measures, in particular the third-party fee and the ban on supplements in the rooms, but there was a way to go further and act more and better in the area of accessibility to care for all, and especially in the field of first-line care and quality hospital care.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-plenair-ip059x.u27	Mr. Speaker, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, a series of provisions are quite positive in this bill. I will not take them all back, but I will mention three of them that are of particular interest to me. The first concerns live graft donors. I consider this to be a first step. Let us acknowledge that a whole series of important brakes explain that today, the number of graft donations from living donors is still much less than it could be if these brakes were lifted. The second element I find positive is the provision for medical imaging and medical laboratory technologists. This is a point on which I had spoken several times during the previous parliamentary term. I imagine that work was subsequently carried out by INAMI, the Association of Technologists and the hospitals concerned. There was a solution, and I welcome it because the situation on the ground was not easy. This will allow us to retain experienced and quality technologists who, themselves, train young technologists who enter the services. The third point that I think is important is the financial transparency of health care. In addition to these elements, this bill raises a number of questions. First, agreements on hospital funding continue to be penalized and reduced as hospital funding reform is being developed. Minister, in my view, the further reduction of patient admission packages within ten days within the same hospital is not positive. This sometimes represents substantial budgets for hospitals. Remember that for the patient, not to be readmitted if a complication occurs after leaving hospital or to delay one or two more days in order not to be in the ten-day period, is obviously not beneficial from a qualitative point of view. I think you can understand that. Secondly, another issue that I am concerned about and which we will have to pay attention to in the future is the compulsory paying third party scheme, namely the administrative overload aspect and the effectiveness of the reimbursement to the caregivers, and in particular the doctors, who are the most affected. No one can say today that everything will work perfectly. Minister, I will conclude my speech by referring to the issue of the Order of Physicians. I apologize because I have to go to the Infrastructure Committee. If you intervene earlier, perhaps I won't have time to go back and forth to hear your answer. As far as the College of Physicians is concerned, we are being told of a technical problem. That is not the case at all! Indeed, this bill confirms an election that does not date from today. It is a matter of dividing the Brussels doctors by attaching them to an order. This project thus prepares a division of the Order of Physicians on a community basis rather than on a regional basis. An order of the Brussels doctors could have been provided by simply saying that "in the sense of this law the Brussels Region must be considered a province". This is suggested indirectly by the Council of State in its opinion. This is obviously not the choice you have made. You have opted for the division of the Order on a community basis. Moreover, this bill puts an end to the possibility for doctors on the periphery to choose to join the common order in the Walloon Brabant. This is clearly a step backwards for Francophone physicians on the periphery. Finally, the draft law, and the Council of State noted it, is contrary to language laws in that it does not modify provisions incompatible with the requirement of full bilingualism of services whose activity extends to municipalities in Brussels-Capital. However, the two orders have an activity which extends to Brussels-Capital since they are addressed to Brussels doctors. It is true that we are not in favour of the entire chapter on the Order of Physicians, since it facilitates both the division of the Order of Physicians on a Community basis, it reduces the rights of Francopho-nees doctors on the periphery and, finally, it ignores linguistic laws. That is the Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the various points I wanted to raise here.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-plenair-ip059x.u28	Mrs. Fonck, Mr. Thiéry wishes to question you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-plenair-ip059x.u29	Mrs Fonck, I hear your Community argument in relation to the Order of Physicians. However, I have a little concern with understanding what you're doing. You have your vision of things for the future; we have discussed them in committee and I am not going to repeat the debate here. However, how do you explain that the decision taken here, that this agreement, which does not undermine the rights of French-speaking physicians in the periphery, was signed with the Conseil national de l'Ordre des médecins, which includes a number of French-speaking doctors living in the periphery? You're not going to tell me that these doctors agreed, knowingly, to a decision that could go against their interests! You'd have to explain it to me!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-plenair-ip059x.u30	Mr. Thiéry, you are referring to the agreement of the Order of Physicians. Minister, I told you that I had made contact with the Order. You told me that I had done my job. It is also the right of every parliamentarian. The work must be done seriously. Minister, we are at least in agreement on this point. In addition, when I interviewed you, you acknowledged that the discussions that had taken place with the College of Physicians were informal. Mr Thiéry, I will answer you very simply, rather than make a long explanation. I have just presented it to you in an argument, but I will give you an example. A doctor who, today, works in Woluwé-Saint-Pierre, who, after the coming into force of this law, would no longer work in Woluwé-Saint-Pierre, but in Crainhem, will no longer have the opportunity to be a member and a member of a French-speaking order. This is a very precise example that I can multiply to infinity. The majority stated that there was no concern, because the current doctors saw their rights preserved, but new doctors who move to their place of activity will no longer enjoy the same rights as today. I call this a step backwards from the Francophones in the periphery.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-plenair-ip059x.u31	I can hear your argument. We must also see the consequences of what you have just said. I would like to recall the statement in section 36 of the Order of February 6, 1970: "Any physician who does not understand or understand sufficiently the language of the Provincial Council on which he/she depends may, from the outset of the investigation and at the latest before the hearing, request that he/she be referred to a Provincial Council using the other language." If this is not a guarantee of the right of everyone and certainly doctors, I do not understand! Therefore, I register falsely with regard to what you are trying to make as a step backwards, whereas in the end, although nothing is perfect, in no case will it harm the doctor in his function.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-plenair-ip059x.u32	Mr. President, I'm not going to go on forever. Everyone exchanged their arguments on the matter. I understand that Mr. Thiéry is, on these aspects, embarrassed at the corners. But the reality is as I described it. Indeed, where doctors today could sign up for a Francophone order, this will no longer be the case tomorrow!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-plenair-ip059x.u33	From there to say that I'm embarrassed at the corners, there's a margin! If there is a person who is particularly familiar with the problem at the periphery level in all areas, you have this person in front of you! Obviously, we will not agree. But what I would not like is that, through Mrs Fonck's intervention, some people believe that we are dropping the Francophones from the Brussels periphery on the Dutch-speaking side. That is not the case! Of course, there are adjustments and, of course, there are obligations! They will be respected in the interests of everyone's right.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-plenair-ip059x.u34	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I would like to speak in my speech on the measure relating to the third-payer scheme, which is included in the present bill on various health provisions. As of today, there is a limited extension of this scheme, whereby general practitioners are obliged to apply the system to people with increased benefits. This has helped about two million people, but the question is why not go for all 11 million people in this country. The bill on various health provisions now provides for a transitional period until October. The mandatory nature of the extension of the third-payer scheme is considered equally flexible. The reason for this is that the software for MyCareNet is not immediately installed with the doctors everywhere. Ladies and gentlemen, that is a practical problem that is being addressed. I would therefore like to reopen the debate in principle and in substance. It is courageous of Minister De Block to insist on the mandatory nature of this expansion against a few opposing medical syndicates. It was not particularly uplifting to hear the spokesperson of the Belgian Association of Doctoral Syndicates (BVAS) on the radio last night saying that he does not want to be dependent on the sickness fund for his money. In other words, the doctor in question wants cash from his patients. Then he's already sure of his money. To be honest, I find such statements unworthy of the profession of doctor. What about sick patients who really need to look after their money and not take care of their health? I have also mentioned in committee that a recent study on first-line care commissioned by the European Commission shows that in Belgium about 900 000 people postpone visiting their general practitioner because they cannot afford it. These figures are distressing for a country that we consider prosperous. It became clear from the study that Belgium is a poor scorer at European level when it comes to access to care. We beach on the 20th place of the 31. That's not something to be too proud of. In addition, the costs arise if you have to postpone a necessary doctor's visit. After all, the condition will worsen, which will increase the cost of healing the patient in most cases. Ladies and gentlemen, we have already made a number of requests for a generalisation of the third-payer scheme. I really don't think we're yelling in the desert, because today the Flemish Patient Platform, the Network against Poverty and the Family Union are once again calling for the third-payer scheme to be generalised. The chairman of the largest party in this hemisphere also stated on the day of his party's family that he was tired of the old-fashioned pastimes. Maybe he can help us adopt our amendment tomorrow? With this bill, there is once again an excellent opportunity to implement the third-payer scheme immediately for everyone. That way, the bad glue slips can disappear. If the design talks about software problems that need to be solved in order to regulate the mandatory third-party payment scheme for people with increased benefits, I honestly do not understand why the system cannot be generalised after the software has been put in place. I have never heard a final argument about this from the Minister. A number of colleagues from the majority continue to say that this would lead to overconsumption in health care. I am glad that not only sp.a. but also Minister De Block thinks that argument is bullshit. No one goes to the doctor for his pleasure, no one. Let us no longer divide patients into boxes and let us finally work on a uniform, unambiguous and correct way of paying for care provision. In this way, our health care becomes more accessible. In this way, those in need of medical assistance can also receive this help effectively, regardless of how much money is in their portfolio at the time. Do not forget, ladies and gentlemen, that we are not asking for an extra intervention from the government here. We're just asking the patient not to advance this amount anymore. The introduction of the third-party payer's system is a modernisation of the current system. The doctor should not be afraid of whom he grants the scheme, because it applies to everyone. Immediately, a lot of administrative stress has been removed from the treating physician. He should no longer worry about the income of his patients. He may have to wait for repayment through the RIZIV, but that will be a month at most. There are even 14 days. What the hell does that matter? The fee will be settled as soon as possible, and the doctor and his family will be able to count on the income of the patients they have treated the month or week before. Ladies and gentlemen, with the third-payer system, the patient only pays the brake fee and the rest of the fee is settled directly between the RIZIV and the doctor. With the general practitioner this means that a maximum of 6 euros will have to be paid, with the specialist it will be 12 euros. This allows anyone who needs medical care to pay them effectively. What is the point of getting the money repaid if it is not put on the table in the first place? For all these reasons, we have Amendment No. 6 from the Committee on Health, together with the colleagues from the PS and Ecolo-Greens. Let's just introduce this generalised third-payer system now. I hope you are thinking about all the patients who deserve quality care without having to put themselves in a financial pit. Let us, ladies and gentlemen, make a real revolutionary change in health care, a change that benefits everyone.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-plenair-ip059x.u35	Mr. President, I'll talk about my bench. I will mention the point that justifies my intervention, which is the grave concern expressed to my party or myself by a number of French-speaking doctors from the six easy communes. I understand that concern. They were certain that they belonged to an institution that guaranteed them language rights because they were with Brussels. Now that they are no longer so, apart from the symbolism once again of the split of what makes the link between the periphery and Brussels, there is the risk for the new registrants that, becoming minority in an order and in a council that will be provincial, they will not see their language rights scrupulously respected. You mustn't be naive. We know how to interpret language laws in the north of the country. We know what the will of some Flemish authorities, even ordinary ones, is. I have testimony for other professions about how francophones in the periphery are treated when they are minority in their order. And so, the split between Brussels and the periphery, once again, is damaging in terms of language rights. It would have been so simple to say that for the six easy-to-use municipalities, freedom of choice was allowed. I have no problem saying that the Flemish people in Brussels have the freedom to register in the language order of their choice. That's right! Whether they are registered through the Flemish Brabant Provincial Council, I have no problem with that. But the parallelism of rights is so simple! What is granted to the Flemish of Brussels, why not grant it to the Francophones of the periphery? It is such an elementary rule of know-how and mutual respect! It is not the choice that is made by the majority. It is true that the MR could not resist because he did not have the will. One wondered if there were any reforms of a community nature, this is one of a community nature because of the weakness of the MR.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-plenair-ip059x.u36	I would like to make a brief statement in the wake of what has just been said. I would have a simple enough solution to solve these community problems related to the College of Physicians. It is to simply remove this anachronistic order because when you look a little at how it works, you realize that when patients really have problems and submit them to the Order of Physicians, there is little chance that they will be treated. These patients don't even know what happens to their complaint. On the other hand, this Order is always there vigorously to react as soon as the medicine of money is called into question. PTB doctors are also systematically attacked by this Order of Physicians, because it is not recognized that corporatist order which has no other function than to defend economic interests where there is to defend medical and social interests. This is why PTB doctors, who have created medical homes throughout the country where free medicine is practised, systematically refuse to pay contributions to this anachronistic order. For the PTB, the best place for this doctor's order is the trash. Indeed, it would avoid this kind of problem and discussion.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-plenair-ip059x.u37	We're not gonna argue about this for long. I understand that the opposition, in a way, wants to try to raise a Community problem where there is no real Community problem. I would just like to point out that the Order of Physicians itself, with full knowledge of the facts and with doctors who participated in the negotiations, made it clear that, given the way things were going, there was no risk in their leadership. Of course, the parliamentary debate is democratic and everyone can speak, but it is interesting to refer to the people who are directly concerned and therefore to the Order itself. This is fundamental in relation to the interpretation that could be made by one or another in an attempt to bring up the Community debate, which is absolutely not the desire of the majority.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-plenair-ip059x.u38	Mr President, I honestly wonder where Mr Maingain sees problems from his point of view. He will no doubt have read the opinion of the Council of State on the draft bill. That opinion led to a change in the preliminary draft law and a change in the draft law, so that the facilities, French-speaking and Dutch-speaking, still count in the facilities municipalities. We have tabled amendments to Articles 28, 81 and 92 of the draft law in order to abolish the facilities and return to the wording of the preliminary draft. It must have been the intention that the 10 regional services of the Medical Evaluation and Control Service should operate monolingually and that only the Brussels-Capital Region should operate bilingually. There is also no clarity about the facilities for foreign speakers. They are simply retained, while everyone knows that the facilities were considered temporary when they were introduced. In the meantime, foreign speakers living in Flemish Brabant or Walloon Brabant have had enough time to adapt. The order in the provinces of Flemish and Walloon Brabant is therefore intended to function in a monolingual manner. However, this is not the case in the present draft law. In my reply to Mr Maingain, I explained our amendments immediately, with the aim of returning to the wording of the preliminary draft and making explicit reference to Article 33 of the language law, so that language law is indeed applicable.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-plenair-ip059x.u39	Madam Minister, in your draft, you are talking, among other things, about the advances that may be requested, subject to urgent concern, within the limits agreed in the Convention Committee. In fact, hospitals, doctors and other care providers regularly request an advance from patients before an examination, medical treatment or admission takes place. However, patients experience that advance as very inconvenient. In any case, when they are hospitalized or need treatment, they are already very concerned and have all kinds of questions. Just then, they will face the financial side of the matter in a hard way. An investigation, involving, among other things, debt relief workers and debtors, showed that asking for advances is absolutely not an exceptional practice. Moreover, the problem is all the more acute for those who are less generous financially. In any case, medical problems are hard for them, and the advance means that immediately, even before treatment has taken place, they have to figure out how to raise the money for them. Another study shows that in mid-2010 two thirds of the general hospitals requested an advance for a stay in common and double rooms. In two out of three cases the maximum was requested. So this is clearly not about a random phenomenon, ladies and gentlemen. According to our group, advances are a restriction on the constitutional right to health care. The system of advances is also unacceptable in the context of poverty reduction and combating the health gap. In this way, the thresholds are far too high for those who are less wide. In our view, the system of advances even smells a little like class medicine. It is not imaginary that people with modest incomes are being chased to the OCMW hospitals in this way. That is why we have already sought to ban advances by means of a legislative proposal, both in the case of daily withdrawals and during the night. Payment in our proposal could only be made after a treatment. That is why today, on the basis of your draft, Madam Minister, we are tabling two amendments in the same way. We propose, by amendment, simply to ban advances. It would narrow the health gap a little bit.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-plenair-ip059x.u40	Thank you, Mrs. Jiroflée. I don't have any more requests for intervention. The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-plenair-ip059x.u41	Mr President, we have spent a long time in committee discussing the issues contained in this draft law on various provisions, and much has already been said about this. In general, I believe that most of the provisions are a good thing for the patient. There is also a demand for greater transparency among hospitals, on how they are financed. There is a discussion about the third-payer scheme, which goes too far for one and not far enough for the other. We will come back to that later. It is in the framework of the government agreement that the third-payer scheme is entering into today for the people with preferential treatment, a small two million patients in our country. However, it also states that there will be an evaluation in the light of the accessibility and affordability of healthcare for patients and that there may be an extension of a roadmap after the evaluation. I answered Mrs Fonck's questions on the Order of Doctors in committee. I would just like to say to Mr Maingain, whom I have not seen in committee, that to his great disappointment a pragmatic solution has been chosen, in which French-speaking and Dutch-speaking doctors are assured of their rights to be treated in their language role. It is a pragmatic solution. There has been no Community discussion within the Order, so I must say to Mr Maingain that times are changing and that the branch on which he sits is literally and figuratively breaking down. Mr Van Hees, I am not surprised at the solution you are proposing to deal with the problems of the Order following the sixth state reform and the division of the judicial arrondissement, particularly in order to abolish the Order immediately. However, I do not think this would be wise, not because the Order is there for the doctors, but because there must be a disciplinary college within the Order of Doctors, precisely to protect the patient if he feels inadequate by a physician who has treated him. Mrs Detiège, I have already replied to Mrs Jiroflée in committee on the question of extending the third-payer scheme. You are asking for the advance payments to be abolished and banned. However, this is already being taken into account, because when patients benefit from preferential treatment, advances are already much less. Anyone who asks for a room alone must pay more and more advances. I therefore do not think that this will affect the health gap, quite the contrary. However, you think it can be remediated. Mrs De Coninck, you ask when the general reform of the Order will be implemented. It is in fact up to the Order itself to submit a proposal for reform to Parliament, as is also the case in the coalition agreement. We have now allowed only the election of the Order of Doctors once again. Indeed, the mandates have expired since mid-May and an election will allow new mandates to be installed, which in turn provides legal certainty as to the rights of the patient to be defended within the Order of Doctors. All in all, this is a positive bill containing various health provisions, which represents a major step forward for patients.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-plenair-ip059x.u42	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-plenair-ip059x.u43	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1161/6) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1161/6) The draft law contains 102 articles. The bill has 102 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-plenair-ip059x.u44	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and articles that have been tabled and on the whole will take place later. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and the reserved articles as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. ****** Decision of the article-by-article discussion:
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-plenair-ip059x.u45	Held: the vote on the amendments and Rules 22, 23, 28, 81 and 92.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-plenair-ip059x.u46	Article adopted by article: Articles 1 to 21, 24 to 27, 29 to 80, 82 to 91 and 93 to 102.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-plenair-ip059x.u47	******
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-plenair-ip059x.u48	Proposals tabled by: Proposals submitted by: - 1108: Vincent Van Quickenborne, Zuhal Demir, Nahima Lanjri, David Clarinval - 1132: Evita Willaert, Georges Gilkinet, Muriel Gerkens, Anne Dedry, Jean-Marc Nollet, Kristof Calvo, Meyrem Almaci, Wouter De Vriendt, Gilles Vanden Burre. The proposer of the bill (Mrs Meryame Kitrir) on the practical tests (no. 1153/1) calls for its legislative proposal to be separated from the motion for a resolution (Mr Vincent Van Quickenborne, Mrs Zuhal Demir and Mr Nahima Lanjri and Mr David Clarinval) to introduce targeted checks on discrimination in the labour market (Nos 1108/1 to 5). The author of the motion for a law (Ms Meryame Kitir) on situation tests (No. 1153/1) asked to separate his proposal from the motion for a resolution (Mr Vincent Van Quickenborne, Ms Zuhal Demir and Ms Nahima Lanjri and Mr David Clarinval) on the introduction of targeted controls on discrimination in the labour market (Nos. 1108/1 to 5). I propose that a single discussion be devoted to these two motions for resolutions. I propose that you devote one discussion to these two motions for resolutions. [[Sentiment]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-plenair-ip059x.u49	The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1108/4) The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1108/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-plenair-ip059x.u50	Mr President, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that some speakers are currently in committee. In doing so, I would ask you to organize the debate accordingly.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-plenair-ip059x.u51	We'll adapt. The first speaker is Frédéric Daerden. Then and successively: Ms Zuhal Demir, Mr David Clarinval, Ms Nahima Lanjri, Mr Vincent Van Quickenborne, Mr Georges Gilkinet, Ms Catherine Fonck, Ms Barbara Pas and Mr Marco Van Hees. We will then see if other members also wish to speak.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-plenair-ip059x.u52	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in such a difficult economic and budgetary context, the fight against discrimination and the promotion of equal opportunities are sometimes unfortunately regarded as background issues. Yet this struggle remains fundamental in all spheres of society and in the labour market, in particular. I will not go back to the figures, the studies and the analyses, but, unfortunately, it must be noted that Belgium is still a poor pupil in terms of the integration into the labour market of foreign persons or persons of foreign origin, despite our important legislative arsenal in the fight against discrimination. Yet, again recently, the BECI indicated that diversity could increase the overall performance of companies and thus their profitability. For the PS group, this problem is far from secondary. This theme should receive our constant attention. We therefore want to continue to support the promotion of equal opportunities. We even want to amplify it. That is precisely why we will not support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-plenair-ip059x.u53	Colleagues, I have just noticed that the bench of government is empty, but the minister who represents the government is coming.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-plenair-ip059x.u54	Mr President, we want to amplify the promotion of equal opportunities, but it is precisely for this reason that we will not support the resolution today. Minister, you are sinning for lack of ambition. We have to go faster, further, stronger! Your resolution is a decoy, a facade that, although its title suggests, will not produce sufficient results in the labour market. Discrimination creates marginalization, and the latter can lead to the slow delinquentness of our society and its cohesion. From the beginning of our work on this subject, we felt a chill on the part of several groups in our committee; we perceived this weak ambition. There has never been a question of presenting a text with measures to address a structural problem, as you said a few weeks ago in this House. In this regard, the Mystery call episode is very meaningful. Minister Peeters' turn on this issue is equally so. After having explained to be in favour of the use by the social inspectors of the Mystery calls, a measure widely supported during our hearings, dissensions arose very quickly between the components of the majority. These disagreements clearly seem to have been true of the proposal since no text of the majority has yet come to the table. However, the hearings clearly highlighted the interest of these Mystery calls. This was also the case for social inspectors. We have seen very interesting hearings and rich in proposals. Of these hearings, you have not retained anything concrete, and I regret it. I also regret that you did not want to involve the opposition parties in the drafting of this resolution, which would have been far more consistent, more robust and more effective than this catalogue of weak measuring instruments presented to us today. Awareness-raising, self-regulation, self-control are your structural solutions to put an end to discrimination in the labour market. Is that naivety? I don't believe it. Of course, prevention and self-regulation have a key role to play in combating discrimination. This already exists in certain sectors. But do I have to remind you that there is nothing currently preventing companies from self-regulation and self-control in this area? Was there really a motion for a resolution to allow that? I don't believe it. We have to go, as I said earlier, further, faster, stronger. The extent of discrimination and the urgency of the situation on the ground require this. Discrimination persists worrisomely. There was therefore a need today for an ambitious and effective new policy in this area, as my colleague Mrs Meryame Kitir proposed, whose proposal on situation tests, which you have decided to ignore, could have resolved or at least improved, the situation of discrimination. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-plenair-ip059x.u55	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the European Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, let me begin by thanking the various majority parties who have come to a resolution on a very difficult problem across party boundaries. Mr Daerden has made a full statement on the extent to which discrimination is serious and unacceptable. Of course, Mr Daerden, this discrimination must also be addressed. The past shows that this issue was apparently not so important, since it was not on the agenda, as far as I know. I have heard a great deal in the previous legislature about anonymous application, practical tests and so on, but nothing has actually happened. So let us talk today about what this centre-right majority is proposing very concretely to tackle discrimination. We discussed the labour market for a long time. Several specialists who are familiar with the problem have come to the hearings. There is, of course, the problem of insiders and outsiders. That problem has been known for a long time. We know who is on the labour market and who is not. Three categories are outside the labour market. People with a migration background and older job seekers, but also people with disabilities, have difficulty entering the labour market. There are several reasons for this. That was also discussed during the hearings. Reference has been made to education. There's a problem with language retardation. In pupils with language problems, school drop-out is often the result. You know that the Flemish Government is doing something about this. The Flemish government is going to organise language baths, so that students can learn the language well and later be strong in the labour market. Another problem is that the labour market is rigid. Different schemes make it difficult for people who do not yet have a job to enter the labour market effectively. Furthermore, labour costs are high. You also know that this government has taken action against the high labour costs. The labour cost handicap is falling. As far as the rigid labour market is concerned, Minister Kris Peeters is currently dealing with the removal of obstacles. There are different theories about the causes of lower employment in certain groups. The OECD has investigated it. When we look at the employment of new Flemings or people of foreign origin, it turns out that the employment rate is very low. In Borgerhout, for example, 62 percent of people of foreign origin are not at work. Everyone here in this House must believe that this is not possible. Also generally, at Belgian level, the employment rate is very low. Mr Daerden, the OECD has raised this issue on several occasions, including in recent legislative times. We can do a number of things, such as work on education, what we do at Flemish level, or work on integration and integration policy, which is very important to make our newcomers as strong as possible. If you are going to apply, the first thing to be asked is whether you know the language, because you need to be able to communicate with each other. As you know, we have been pursuing a compulsory integration policy at Flemish level for ten years. This is a good thing, first and foremost for the newcomers, for people who come to live here with the aim of following an integration path and finding a place in society. Of course, it starts with the language and Flanders already pursues that policy, but of course it also needs a good migration policy, a migration policy that means strengthening the community. Let us be honest about this: in recent years there has been no vision of it. The first generation of migrant workers, including my father, came here in the 1970s to work in the mines. They came here to work effectively and thus also strengthen the community. That is very important to create a basis for support in our society. Afterwards, of course, there were several migratory waves that, unfortunately, did not lead to what was effectively intended. In these areas, too, we must look at what can be done. This resolution is specifically about discrimination. Certain parties do not believe that there is discrimination. Discrimination does exist and is, and continues to be, unacceptable. There is discrimination in the rental market, there is discrimination in the labour market, but there is also discrimination in dating, for example. Mrs Pas, I remember my brother not being admitted to a bar 15 years ago. Not only he was not allowed, his friends with a colored touch were not allowed. I was there with a couple of friends. I must say that it makes people quiet. If a person is not allowed to enter a café on the basis of his colour, then it can only be said that it is about discrimination. Some parties argue that there is no discrimination. We say that discrimination exists and that it must also be addressed. Of course, not everything is discrimination. When one looks at the figures for the employment of immigrants, some, especially on the left, immediately pick out only the word 'discrimination'. In our view, however, this is not just a question of discrimination. If there is discrimination, it must be tackled. Hence this resolution, which is very far-reaching. This resolution is also waterproof and effectively tackles the problem of discrimination in the labour market, without complying with the principles of our rule of law. It is important that we ensure the principles of the rule of law. That is why we also listened to Federgon in committee. At Federgon there was a major problem with discrimination. This problem was addressed several years ago with self-regulation, awareness raising and self-control. There has also been a spectacular reduction in discrimination. Sir of the Communist Party, you shake no. This year's annual report by Federgon shows that 14% of temporary workers are of foreign origin. I think that is a great contrast with the 1% of port workers of ethnic origin. You know that a port worker is selected by the union. It's the union that decides who becomes a port worker and who doesn't. When we look at those figures, it is actually very sad to find that only 1% of those port workers are of ethnic origin.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-plenair-ip059x.u56	Mrs Demir, I am not going to make a battle of figures, but the data available to me indicate that in the interim sector, after this self-control of the sector, the number of discriminating companies has increased from 28% to 29%; this is not a decrease but a slight increase. For me, self-regulation is not a success in the acting sector, it is a small failure.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-plenair-ip059x.u57	Mr Van Hees, I do not know if you were present. The hearings took several days when the representative of Federgon came to explain the figures. This showed that the federation is effectively acting against discrimination and that the phenomenon has been reduced. Read the annual report. The case is as ready as you can when you place the percentage of 14 % temporary workers of foreign origin against 1 % port workers. I'm basing myself purely on actual figures. This is what it is all about: how many people of ethnic origin are employed? A comparison of the figures shows that something is happening in the broadcasting sector. That is why we also make very specific, targeted recommendations in the motion for a resolution. I am thinking, for example, of the evaluation of anti-discrimination legislation. We have a lot of anti-discrimination legislation in this country, but unfortunately the results are zero. Zero. Mrs. Monica De Coninck, you can sigh. Of course, it's about your party's policy. Perhaps you can tell me what the three anti-discrimination laws have led to. That would be very interesting to know. Where are the results?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-plenair-ip059x.u58	Mrs Demir, I really have no lessons to learn from you in that regard. I thought your party was boss in Antwerp; so do something about it, if you want to mention examples. As the OCMW chairman, I have ensured that, in five years' time, 18% of the staff in the OCMW and in hospitals have a migration background. You take a number of examples here and make gratuite claims to prove cases you want to prove. You say the result is 0 %. Prove it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-plenair-ip059x.u59	That's what the report says. I don't know, Mrs. De Coninck, if you're reading annual reports. This is very time-intensive, but this is how we learn a lot, including about the employment of port workers. You don't have to be mad. I know, it's the unions who decide who is an effective port worker and who isn't. The numbers are what they are. You don't have to get angry, because Antwerp is on the right track. The figures on the employment of immigrants among city staff are rising. That is what we are doing right now.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-plenair-ip059x.u60	Ongderoêt, der koême vaêf greasy varekes. What does that mean, Mrs. Demir? That's dockwork language.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-plenair-ip059x.u61	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-plenair-ip059x.u62	Of course, that's what it's about.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-plenair-ip059x.u63	I don't understand. Could you perhaps repeat it in English in general?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-plenair-ip059x.u64	Why is the number of people employed in the port of Antwerp only 1% of foreign nationality? Because they don't understand our language! Ongderoêt, vaêf greasy varekes.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-plenair-ip059x.u65	Now I understand what you're saying. Allow me to briefly replicate. It doesn't just have to do...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-plenair-ip059x.u66	(...) I was born and raised in Antwerp, but I don't understand what you mean. Besides, half the people here probably won't understand that. Would we all be discriminated against, even if we were born and raised here?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-plenair-ip059x.u67	(...) then you would understand.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-plenair-ip059x.u68	Do you find discrimination acceptable in these cases?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-plenair-ip059x.u69	At the beginning of my speech, I said that language is very important. At the same time, however, I have to say that people who speak our language are in one way or another having difficulties in getting adopted. Port workers sometimes do not get second- or third-generation immigrants through applications, although they do speak the language. It will therefore not be only the language, although language is very important. Mr President, I was evaluating anti-discrimination legislation and Mrs De Coninck suddenly got angry in that respect, citing the OCMW of Antwerp. Mrs De Coninck, I do not think it is a bad thing to evaluate the three anti-discrimination laws, but we can consider what measures are appropriate to facilitate the application of the laws. Both in the public sector and in the private sector, we must always look at ourselves first, and we will work with targeted controls. I believe that the social partners also have a very important role to play, because they know the sector better than anyone. The social partners will therefore draw up a code of conduct on discrimination and will also be responsible for self-regulation and self-control systems. If this self-control or self-regulation does not help, that was the concern of Mr Daerden of the PS.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Then there's the final piece, the reason why I'm comparing the approach to a three-stage rocket. The final point is that the department responsible for monitoring social legislation on the basis of Article 21 (4) of the Social Criminal Code takes the necessary measures, inter alia, by pointing out to the employer the complaints relating to discrimination, for which such measures must be taken. So much for my speech. It is also a motion for a resolution, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. The government and Minister Peeters are supposed to work on our text. I think all four parties have stuck their necks out very far. If we look at the past, we've never gone this far. On behalf of the N-VA Group, I am also very pleased to have been able to participate in the motion for a resolution on behalf of the N-VA Group. We hope that an effective approach to discrimination will finally be put in place, because discrimination simply cannot be achieved.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-plenair-ip059x.u70	Mr President, first of all, I would like to say to the colleague from Vlaams Belang that if I start talking in patois, I don't think he will understand what I'm saying. There is a multitude of patois in the Ardennes. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it must be noted that the participation of immigrants in the labour market is still too low in Belgium. Despite the fact that our country has an important legislative arsenal in the fight against discrimination in hiring, it is mainly at the level of its implementation, monitoring and sanctions that problems remain. It is with this in mind that we are now presenting a motion for a resolution to introduce targeted controls on discrimination in the labour market. In line with the logic of the government agreement which provided that zero tolerance would be applied in the area of discrimination in employment, the resolution formulates twelve specific points of action. I will not go into a detailed account of these points here, but I will insist on four elements which I believe are important. Firstly, as I said in committee, despite an important legislative arsenal, difficulties remain in the implementation and monitoring of the fight against discrimination in recruitment. It is therefore important to carry out an evaluation of existing legislation and to adapt it if necessary to ensure that appropriate measures are taken. Second, in order to effectively address discrimination, it is important that the federal authority as the country's first employer first set the right example. These targeted controls should therefore be organized within the public service. This is clearly stated in our resolution: the example of the federal state as an employer. Thirdly, we call on the federal government to develop an inter-federal action plan against discrimination and to convene an inter-ministerial conference within that framework. We also call for consultation with the social partners to conclude collective labour agreements in the various sectors. These collective agreements will be concluded with a view to the establishment of a code of conduct on discrimination and the establishment of self-regulation and self-control systems. In this respect, the partners in the various sectors will be able to draw on Federgon's constructive and fruitful approach in terms of self-regulation and control. Finally, and as we make clear in the resolution, it is important to provide for a system in which control data are automatically transmitted to the Directorate-General for Social Law Supervision when the social partners have clear indications that despite the self-regulation of discrimination persists in a company. The employer will then be given a period of time to take clear, "smart" measures to eliminate this discrimination. If the employer fails to prove that it has taken such "smart" measures, then targeted checks may be carried out as part of an investigation in order to gather evidence for the preparation of a report. This is where our view diverges from that of Mr. Van Hees: we trust sectors and employers. We are humanists, we first give employers a chance and first allow them to self-regulate. Controls and sanctions will arrive in a later phase with respect to recalcitrants who, despite the possibility of self-regulation and despite the fact that their incorrectness has been pointed out, would persist in their faults. In the face of these recalcitrants, we will be intractable. But we first give all those who wish a chance to self-regulate. As Liberals, I can say that we are particularly opposed to any form of discrimination and that we are working hard to promote equal opportunities. I think we will have to ensure that the system that will be put in place is used effectively but also flexibly. The authorities must set an example and the constraints cannot be too burdensome for companies. The private sector must continue to enjoy the confidence of the legislator and must develop its own self-regulatory framework. If employers are guilty of discrimination, then the authorities will be able to take action against them. Mr President, this is the position of our party. We therefore welcome the successful conclusion of this text. I also thank colleagues from the various groups for working constructively on this text. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-plenair-ip059x.u71	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are pleased to be able to propose a new step here today in the fight against discrimination in the labour market. The specific reason for this proposal for a resolution was the examination of the Minority Forum at 300 service cheque companies. This showed that as many as two out of three service cheque companies are guilty of discrimination purely and solely on the basis of origin. For the sake of clarity, it is not about the refusal of certain persons, for example because they would not clean well, because they would not speak the language or because they would not be competent. No, we could still understand that. Of course, any employer has the right to refuse employees if he considers that they do not have the appropriate profile. He has no right to refuse candidates who do have the right profile, but not the right colour or origin. In fact, it often concerns Belgians, people who have become Belgians or were born Belgians. The research reminded us of Volt's reportage in 2010 in a harsh way. This already showed that six on eight temporary agency firms refused immigrant staff and selected candidates at the customer's request. There was even the code BBB, bleu, blanc et belge. On the basis of that code name it was reported that people wanted workers who were not only born here and had Belgian nationality, but who also had white skin color and blue eyes. The problem is neither new nor unknown. It is all the more distressing to note that in practice there is so much discrimination in service cheque companies, a sector which is heavily subsidised by the public authorities, and which, at the same time, employs a large number of people, including those of ethnic origin. And often that's because they still want to do that job. We have to be careful. We certainly cannot target those sectors which already employ a large number of people. Which sectors, by the way, discriminate most? Are those sectors in which many people of ethnic origin are at work, or where there are none at all at work? Sometimes there are much fewer workers of ethnic origin in certain sectors. If that has to do with the fact that they don't have the appropriate profile, that's understandable. But if a company refuses such workers purely out of discrimination, we cannot, of course, agree with that. The fact that candidates are refused may have to do with different factors. It may have to do with the fact that the candidate does not have the right profile, that he does not speak the language, that he does not have an adequate level of education or that he does not have the right education. That's why refusing someone makes sense. One would do the same to someone else. If it is purely and exclusively about origin or skin colour, it can be said that it is a question of discrimination. We can't tolerate that. As politicians, we have to do something about that. We must take responsibility and not just send a signal. For that, the problem is too deeply rooted in our society. I am pleased that we have taken the lead in reaching an agreement with the majority. With this motion for a resolution, we are moving in a new direction. The hearings showed that the current penal law is not working optimally. That has to do with the excessive burden of proof. We need to do something about that. I was just talking about the discrimination that came to light in a Voltreportage a few years ago. The same interim sector has taken on its responsibilities and has come to good practice. Federgon can serve as a model when it comes to sensitisation, guidance, self-regulation and a certain degree of punishment. This model must be adopted by all sectors. They'll have to try it on their own in the first place. An important aspect is that the government also has a role to play in this. If the private sector finds that a number of companies are nevertheless discriminated against, it should forward that information to the inspection, which may impose measures in the form of a plan to deal clearly with discrimination. Subsequently, the offenders can still fulfil their obligations. If they do and follow the plan, there's no problem. If they do not, the government can carry out targeted anonymous checks with a view to legal proceedings. The proposal for a resolution provides for the same measures for sectors which are not starting at all. In a sector that does not set up a system of self-regulation or a lack of self-regulation, we want to assume our responsibility from the government. In the first instance, we ask them to take these measures, otherwise they too will be subject to anonymous, targeted controls. We want to have a stick behind the door with our text, in other words. We use it as little as possible, hoping that the stick behind the door works sufficiently preventively to move business, to encourage people to be vigilant and not to discriminate. We certainly cannot say that all workers discriminate, but some do. This is evident from the various investigations. They have to take responsibility. If it's necessary, there's a stick behind the door. We have also provided for an evaluation of the measures after two years. If necessary, they will be adapted to work even more efficiently. Our proposal also provides a framework for the relevant ministers. Firstly, as Mrs Demir said, Deputy Prime Minister Peeters, but also Minister Vandeput, responsible for Civil Service Affairs, and Secretary of State Sleurs, to take the necessary measures and legislative initiatives within the framework of the resolution. Sometimes it is enough to give guidelines or instructions to the administration to set things up. We believe that discrimination cannot be tolerated. That is also stated in the coalition agreement: zero tolerance for discrimination. We do not think it is possible for Jan to take precedence over Nasser or that Nasser does not get opportunities, because he has a different name or origin and then is not looked at his diploma or competences. It is also important that we apply the principle of practice what you preach. This means that we in Parliament must draw up the rules and apply them first and foremost to our own administration. Especially when we know that the government with 80 000 officials is the country's largest employer, we believe that self-regulation and self-control should be carried out and that, if necessary, the possibility of targeted anonymous controls should be provided for. This will enable us to be strong in relation to the private sector. We ask the private sector to do so, but of course we will do so ourselves. Once again, we are talking about targeted, anonymous controls that we will carry out from the government, both in the public and private sectors, but only after the self-regulation phase and therefore for a certain group of companies. Unfortunately, we have to note that discrimination is a global phenomenon. It occurs not only in the labour market, but also in the rental market, in the leisure sector and in education. We have already seen reports in which people were refused in fitness clubs or discotheques. It is therefore a good thing that the motion for a resolution, in addition to a complete system, also calls for our laws and our anti-discrimination laws to be properly reviewed. We look forward to the analysis and the agreements we will make with the Länder. I hope that the text, which we will approve tomorrow, will also inspire the other parliaments to do the same in the areas for which they are competent, and to take the necessary initiatives. The proposal for a resolution is a step in the right direction, but the elimination of discrimination cannot be put into a comprehensive government measure. We can only work on this as a society, from the bottom up, and by self-regulation in the labour market. A stick behind the door might be needed, too. Grabbing opportunities is a must, but everyone must be able to come to the start with the same weapons. Again, it is really high time something happened about it, especially when we see our employment figures. The employment rate in our country is 46% for non-EU citizens and 64% for natives. That's a big difference. There are, of course, a number of explainable differences. This has to do with language or training, but much of that difference cannot be explained by objective factors and clearly has nothing to do with pure discrimination. We have to deal with that. We are already among the worst students in the European class. We must do something about this, not just because we want to be among the best, but simply because it is a right for people to have equal opportunities. Moreover, it is an added value for our society, because we need the existing potential. When I look at the figures, including in Antwerp, I find that two thirds of the minus-five-year-olds are of ethnic origin. It is true that this is about the third or even the fourth generation. There is nothing to say but that everyone must have equal opportunities. Unfortunately, we cannot say that today. We must work on this so that it becomes a reality. It's about people who are here and who stay here. They are part of our society. They are entitled to equal treatment, not preferential treatment, but no second-rate treatment!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-plenair-ip059x.u72	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is not my custom to intervene in resolutions because, frankly, I do not often have illusions about what is in such a resolution. The reason why I am doing it today is because I sincerely believe that what we are discussing today is a phenomenon against which we have done far too little in recent decades. I tell you that not only as a Member of Parliament, but also as mayor of a city centre which has become a multicultural city with important, large communities of foreign origin in recent years, with which we try to build bridges. As mayor, I often get hit by stories of discrimination. For example, there are people who find it difficult to find a home, who have difficulties in the labour market or who do not have access to a catering establishment because of their background, because of their origin. Those stories affect me because it is necessary to ensure that people who want to seize those opportunities can also get those opportunities if they want to strengthen the fabric in society. Action can be taken in cities, such as in Ghent, but there is always a conflict with national legislation which does not allow effective action to be taken. That is why we have taken action in this House. I have read the figures again and found that the OECD, an important economic think tank, has included three major shortcomings for our country in its report this spring, namely taxation, the housing market and the underemployment rate of people of foreign origin. I think we live in a rather modern country, but believe it or not, our country is doing terrible things at European level when it comes to the employment of people of foreign origin. Only Turkey, Spain and Greece are doing worse. To be honest, I find that embarrassing, because Belgium, as one of the founding fathers of the European Union, has always taken the lead in the field of integration, but has clearly failed to do so. The second thing I noticed is that the position of women of foreign origin with a non-EU background in the labour market is very low. The employment rate is just over 30%, while women in our society are now reaching a 60% employment rate. This means that there is a huge backlog there too. The figures speak for themselves. The question is, of course, what is to be done about this. We must stop wasting the available labour and talents. This week the debate was held on the retirement age, on the fact that we will have to work longer. We agree, one way or another. The question is how to make people more involved in society and ensure that our social security is and remains affordable. Then we must ensure that anyone who can work does so. As Mrs De Coninck once said, anyone who has eyes, ears and legs must get to work. She could say that. There hasn't been much comment on that. If anyone else had said that, the barf might have been too small. I found it a striking expression to say that all available talents should be able to participate. The reality is that it is not possible to do so today. There are, as has been said, different causes, such as education, attitudes, integration and language skills. However, discrimination is and remains an important factor. I agree with previous speakers, who have indicated the speed with which this issue has been addressed. In February, the Minority Forum came out with a survey showing shocking figures regarding discrimination in the services sector. That was not surprising, because as Mrs Lanjri said, there was already an investigation in 2010. In the meantime, a number of companies were even convicted of discrimination. They didn't want to leave that blue blue and catch the cow by the horns. Within two weeks of that investigation, hearings were organised on which everyone agreed that they were interesting and educational. Barely a few months later, this resolution is now being discussed here. What distinguishes the opposition from the majority is that it does not think that this is far enough. I am convinced that our proposals are balanced and workable, under three conditions, but I will talk about this later. They are balanced because, first of all, the sectors are given the opportunity to adjust. Mrs. Dedry referred to the auto-control system in committee. Autocontrol works in different sectors of our society. For example, the whole problem of food safety is primarily solved by auto-control, and only then does the government act. That is also the philosophy of this resolution: first, to ask the sectors to put themselves in order and then, if this does not happen, to give us figures in all transparency so that the public authorities, in the context of judicial investigations, can take effective action. Our proposals are therefore balanced and workable, and I am convinced of that. Workable work, this is a workable resolution. After all, we are adopting Federgon's methodology, to which reference was made. The results aren't what they're supposed to be. Mr Van Hees has just referred to the percentages. I admit, honestly, I still think it's way too high. These figures need to be clearly improved, and we know that. However, it is workable because it is in line with what the social inspector said at the hearings. He said the Social Inspectorate isn't equipped to control all sectors. That is why we have opted for a system that has already achieved a number of results in the past, albeit with certain shortcomings. I believe that there are three conditions for the resolution to succeed. After all, the resolution is only the beginning of a possible change, certainly not the end. The first condition is that the resolution leads to the approximation of legislation. I am a little disappointed that the Minister responsible is not here, because I know that he attaches great importance to this issue. His representative is already in the gallery and, of course, the Minister is also present. I know he attaches a great deal of importance to this. It would therefore be a great disappointment to us, I think, on behalf of my fellow Members, to speak for the majority, should the resolution remain on its own. The intention is to amend the legislation and to conclude protocols so that, hopefully, by the end of the year, legislative texts can be submitted to Parliament, which can become operational in the course of next year. I also very explicitly ask the government's commitment to doing so effectively. The second condition is that there is an absolute willingness on the part of employers to cooperate. I'm a little worried about that. I admit it, honestly. I am thinking of the reactions of certain employers' organisations and federations. There was also a lot of lobbying by the employers' federations to prevent the resolution from coming to an end. The employers are concerned that the introduction of these controls would cause a great deal of administrative nuisance and other problems. However, the Federgon system has just proved that employers can handle it and that the system is able to change something. It is clear, however, that I would like to say to all those who have been involved in the discussion that all sectors will have to comply with the resolution and the legislative texts that follow, first of all, of course, the large companies that will have to set the example. It is important that after a time of talking there is also a time of doing so. All sectors will have to act as a rule. As Mrs Lanjri said, sectors that clearly refuse to cooperate in the auto-control system will be dealt with in a different way. Employers and entrepreneurs, in whom I have a great deal of confidence, are therefore prepared to comply with the agreements and make sure that there is less discrimination. The third condition is coherence. We have noticed that initiatives have also been taken in the Flemish Parliament. There have been hearings and it is now looking forward to initiatives by the Flemish Government. It is important that the different levels of policy, including the fellow Members from the other regions of the Community, should be in line with the same philosophy in the fight against discrimination. Discrimination is not typically Flemish or typically Belgian, it is a phenomenon that is between people's ears, in the sense that what is strange deters, which sometimes leads to strange reactions. The aim must be to fight discrimination together. Hand-in-hand, governments need to work together to set up a system that works effectively. Ladies and gentlemen, I have already said that I am a cool lover of resolutions. I haven't signed or written much with it in my life. However, I am convinced of the strength of those Members who supported the resolution before us. In addition to Mr Clarinval, I would particularly like to thank my fellow Members, Mr Demir and Mr Lanjri, because both ladies have proved that those who get opportunities can seize those opportunities. Fortunately, several Members have already demonstrated this in our Parliament. I think that is a very good thing for our society. People need icons, although they may be a big word, but they still need examples to see that they can get there. Those who want to seize opportunities should also be given those opportunities. Discrimination is an unacceptable threshold in people's quest to do better and better. Therefore, Minister, I very much hope that you will take this matter seriously with the government and that you will present initiatives to bring this legislation into line before the end of the year.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-plenair-ip059x.u73	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is good to note that no one denies discrimination. It is also good to note that everyone says that discrimination must be tackled and that there must be zero tolerance when it comes to discrimination. I would also like to repeat here that if people with a strange background do not get opportunities, that does not always have to do with discrimination. We often get blamed, but we did not say that. If someone is not capable because he does not have the talents or does not meet the conditions, then that is a valid reason to refuse someone. If he's refused on the basis of his origins, that's not okay. That's what we're talking about. It has been said before that the word discrimination is too often used as an excuse. I do not believe that we are going from that point of view. Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, if you were so serious, Mr Van Quickenborne has already said so, you would not have tabled a resolution in this House today, but a legislative proposal; you would have made it a law. As an opposition, we have cooperated constructively in the committees. We think this is an important issue. We believe that there can be no discrimination. We will also continue to cooperate constructively when it comes to taking measures to tackle discrimination. But, and I regret that, when I read this resolution, I do not have the impression that something is being done today for those who are discriminated against. What is proposed here is a very cumbersome procedure for ultimately, if there is no cooperation, a system of self-regulation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-plenair-ip059x.u74	Mr President, I would like to ask Mrs Kitir a question. You say that it is not our intention to deal with the problem. We believe otherwise. We believe that this resolution goes very far. May I ask what you and your party have done about this subject very specifically in recent years?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-plenair-ip059x.u75	Mrs Demir, I wanted to come back to that in any case, because you mentioned it in your speech. So I wanted to answer you. However, since you are rather impatient, I will answer you now. We have already proposed in the previous legislature the system of anonymous application mentioned by you. The difference is that we did not have a majority to approve our proposal. Our minister even asked for the NAR's opinion on that bill. If there is no majority, there is no majority. So do not blame the sp.a that we have not made concrete proposals and that we do not think this issue is important enough. Mr Clarinval and Mr Van Quickenborne spoke about employers. Mr van Quickenborne, it is to your credit that you are honest and that you admit that there has been a lot of lobbying from employers. Those employers are looking at the resolution that is going to be voted on today with a little fear, and they are not very keen on it. In fact, they have already indicated in part that they are not prepared to cooperate. It has been said here that there is confidence in the employers and that they want to give them opportunities. How many chances do we have left? There have been so many examples of poignant cases of discrimination. How many more opportunities need to be created before legislative initiatives are taken to effectively tackle discrimination? Not every employer discriminates. However, the attitude they adopt is not correct. It would adorn them, should they say that they also consider this an important theme. It would be a credit to them if they were to say that they want to play an active part in eliminating discrimination. Their lobbying and the statements made by employers' organisations in the newspapers make me feel that they are not prepared to do anything about this themselves. Other colleagues have often cited the self-regulation system in Federgon's interim work. That would be a good example, a good system. However, the hearings showed that Federgon is doing this for the third time in a row and that even now there is still 30% discrimination in Federgon. Federgon didn't come up with that either. Federgon has worked out the system itself, but it has only been established once it has been repeatedly demonstrated that there is discrimination in the interim sector and that this is not correct. At that time, the interim sector decided to do something about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-plenair-ip059x.u76	Mrs Kitir, I fully understand your concern; it is also mine. We have also taken this into account in the motion for a resolution. It's true it's not enough. You are right that it is not enough to say that the sector must do it all by itself. It has proved in the past that Federgon has been able to do a lot with a very solid system, but not everything. There's a risk category. In the motion for a resolution we say that Federgon with that 30% is hopefully less, but in a particular sector it may as well be more or less able to go to the government, so that it can take an appropriate action, namely by starting a SMART procedure first. The government will do targeted anonymous checks for that group, but not for everyone. Admit, Mrs Kitir, the inspection also said that it is impossible to control everything and everyone; she asked for cooperation from the sector. That is what we are providing for. You then wonder whether they will participate at all, given the reactions. Well, we have also taken that into account in the resolution. We have said very clearly that we are giving the sectors a chance to participate. If they do not do so, the same mechanisms will apply as for those companies which appear to discriminate at the end of the journey. And you don't have to wait two years for that. The government will also assume its responsibility for those sectors which do not have self-regulation or lack of self-regulation. Your concern is absolutely also ours. You asked how much longer that would take. Mr Van Quickenborne said just now that we are calling on the government to act urgently on this matter. For all I care it may be before the recess, but let us say that everything must be completed before the end of the year, so that it can start on 1 January. We're behind this. We will encourage the government to do this and we will ensure that it is done. We don't have to wait years. Too much precious time has already been lost. You are right in that too, and we agree with you. We need to make up for that time now.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-plenair-ip059x.u77	Mrs Lanjri, I agree with your analysis, but I do not agree with the resources you are providing today. You're presenting a resolution, not a bill or a bill. Today we are discussing the issue of discrimination. The majority parties tell us and the people that they will tackle the problem. Nevertheless, I do not see anything concrete. If you were serious, you would have turned it into a bill. You say you'll come up with it very soon, even before the summer. Well, I don't believe you. I have heard you say on other subjects that you would be dealing with them here before the summer, but I have not seen them appear.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-plenair-ip059x.u78	Mrs Kitir, I said: if it depends on me, the sooner the better. Mr Van Quickenborne also indicated that we want to finish the appearance by the end of this year. You wonder why no draft laws have yet been tabled by the majority. You should know that there was no agreement at first. There were differences between the parties and that is not illogical. I think it is a huge step forward that we have reached a common position with the four different parties. We needed a framework, and that's what's happening now. We are now asking the government to implement it. If necessary, we will do it ourselves, but we will give the government the opportunity to prepare the necessary draft laws ourselves.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-plenair-ip059x.u79	I would like to join my colleague, Mrs Lanjri. It's been less than a year. In that very short time, we will come out with the four majority parties with a common position on tackling discrimination. Mrs Kitir, the agreement between the four parties is far more than what you have achieved as a government party for 20 years. You refer to the anonymous application. You and your party have been in the federal government for the last 20 years, with the Socialists supplying the Minister of Work every once in a while, unable to reach an agreement until the beginning of an agreement. At least we have an agreement on a very extensive, very concrete three-stage rocket. It is not just self-regulation and self-control. Let's move on to that. There's also a lock piece in it. You must want to read it, too. If, after self-regulation and self-control, companies are still caught being discriminated against, the data will be delivered to the Social Inspectorate and, as a rule of law, it is up to them to start working on this data. What is ahead now is really much more than what you have ever realized with your party on that theme.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-plenair-ip059x.u80	Mrs Demir, you must stop announcing what will happen, there will and there will be, because at the moment nothing will happen. You need to understand the difference between a resolution and a law. What is now before us is a resolution. You have an agreement on that, indeed. In the past we also had an agreement, but not for a resolution, but for a concrete effect, for action. Do you think nothing has been done by the Socialists in those 20 years?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-plenair-ip059x.u81	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-plenair-ip059x.u82	Mr President, you gave me the floor, didn't you?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-plenair-ip059x.u83	Mrs Demir, only Mrs Temmerman has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-plenair-ip059x.u84	Mrs Demir, it is not by saying that people are right. Do you think nothing about discrimination has happened in 20 years? I'll tell you even more.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-plenair-ip059x.u85	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-plenair-ip059x.u86	Mrs. Demir, let Mrs. Temmerman speak.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-plenair-ip059x.u87	Mrs Demir, where we had the majority, as in Ghent, concrete measures have been taken, albeit with the appropriate powers. A city cannot make laws, but very concrete steps have been taken on discrimination in its areas of competence. This has been done thanks to the socialists. If you like, I can give you a list of all the things that have been achieved in this respect thanks to the Socialists. I'd like to argue with you, but not like that. Mr Van Quickenborne has also just acknowledged that a resolution is now before us, but that legislation still needs to be passed. Mr Van Quickenborne has even said that he is a cool lover of resolutions. I have not been a Member of this House for long, but I have already seen or approved a large number of resolutions here that have really not changed anything, precisely because they are not laws. A resolution is a sweetener. With a resolution we sometimes take a small step. Why is a resolution being drafted, but not a law? Because there's no consensus. Mrs Demir, you must acknowledge that there is not yet a real agreement, because if there had been a real agreement, there would not be a resolution now, but a law.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-plenair-ip059x.u88	Mrs Demir said that there was little or nothing about discrimination during the previous legislature. During the previous legislature, we were in the majority. There are different types of discrimination. A form of discrimination is that women who do the same work as men earn less for exactly the same job. At that time, together with Mrs Becq, I was the driving force behind a decision. We were able to reach a decision after a few weeks. We did not table a recommendation or a resolution, because that is not a change, it is simply calling on the government to want something, but in principle that does not change anything. We in this House have approved the draft legislation on the pay gap. You say you will deal with discrimination here, but at the time I deeply resented you for not having voted in favour when it was possible. On the contrary, you were standing at Villa Politica saying that it was not necessary, when it was very important to tackle that discrimination. I do not accept that you are attacking my colleague in such a way today. I don't think that's done.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-plenair-ip059x.u89	I would like to respond very briefly to that pay gap. I am still not in favour of this because it does not address the cause of the problem. As far as I know, I did not make any statements about this at Villa Politica. Mrs Temmerman, this is a resolution. However, you also know that the federal government agreement contains a whole chapter on zero tolerance and that we will effectively tackle discrimination. This resolution is a consequence of that chapter in the federal government agreement. There is a willingness to tackle the issue of discrimination in the labour market. Mrs. Temmerman, I'm not gonna stand by you saying that I owe it to the socialists... that made me very angry. If I have someone to thank, it is my parents and certainly not the socialists.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-plenair-ip059x.u90	I didn't say that at all. You may have misunderstood me or I may have misread myself, but I did not say that you personally owe something to the Socialists. I have said that many things have changed in this society thanks to the socialists, including discrimination. That's what I said. I never talk about people, as you do very often.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-plenair-ip059x.u91	We have not forgotten, Mrs Kitir had the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-plenair-ip059x.u92	Thank you very much, Mr President. To return to my speech, I continue to regret the fact that a resolution will be adopted here and not a legislative proposal. We had a proposal prepared ourselves. We are often accused of having no proposals, but we have a concrete proposal in which we do carry out the practical tests. Very often it is said that entering practice tests means entrapment or espionage. I'd like to contradict that here anyway. Practical tests are a technique to determine whether discrimination exists or is absent. People don't talk about entrapment or espionage at all. We are not saying that anyone can carry out a practical test. It's mostly the educated people who have to do that. We also think it is important to respect the privacy of those who are being tested. Once again, I regret that this is a resolution. Everyone agrees on philosophy, in particular that discrimination cannot be achieved. However, we believe that it is high time to take steps and not to proceed to a cumbersome procedure which ultimately leads to nothing.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-plenair-ip059x.u93	Mr President, I am going to have to improvise because the majority is announcing an amendment that is close to the one we tabled in committee. In view of the alarming findings, our text aimed to impose a willingness to act in the face of effective discrimination in employment, with a clear commitment from the government to table, within six months, a text that specifically organizes measures to control companies on compliance with the principle of non-discrimination. These would be blind tests, as was experimentally organised by the universities, with the collaboration of two workers, one classic, of Belgian origin and the other of foreign origin, in order to check whether the latter suffers discrimination in employment. Without such measures, without blind tests, all the good words expressed here will remain pious wishes and the baudrouch may deflate very quickly. We have followed the debates carefully, we have heard the virile words of the Minister for Employment, represented by one of his collaborators. As in many cases, we have seen the N-VA brake that does not want these tests. We were then offered a negotiated text in the absence of the opposition parties, which, however, actively contributed to the organisation of the hearings. The resolution of the majority is far from the commitments and the stakes. We therefore await this amendment that we may support it after we have studied it, but ours still exists, you can take it back as it is. The majority must bring their actions into line with their words. Too often, we heard good intentions that could be supported but that were not then reflected in the decisions taken. I am thinking in particular of the resolution on child poverty, which has been debated at length in the Committee on Health and in this House. Beyond the fine principles, a series of government decisions, including on social security, linear economies will lead to more child poverty. This is hypocrisy or a very worrying lack of vision. I am thinking of limiting the supplementary allowances for workers, and more often women workers, on a part-time basis, which still has to be applied. If we fail to prevent its application, despite all the energy deployed to achieve it, this measure is likely to have a disastrous effect on the incomes of these workers and their children. I'm also thinking about the famous tax shift that we talked about a lot. We will soon be told that the diamond tax is a tax shift while it is above all an extraordinary gift. Discrimination in the labour market is now discussed with a text that does not even provide for the principle of control through independent surveys of actual business practices. As such, the motion for a resolution is full of good intentions. We do not criticise its content. We did not reject it, we simply abstained. But it must be admitted that at this stage, she does not commit much. It is especially critical because it does not rely on levers that are not activated. There is excessive prudence with regard to the essential principle of being able to handle the stick, threatening employers who do not respect the rules of the game, the rules of living together, who do not agree to be controlled and punished. The hearings in the Committee on Social Affairs, in particular that of the representative of the Centre for Equal Opportunities and the Fight against Racism, have clearly shown the limits of the self-regulation that you are advocating. This is not enough to combat phenomena of such complexity and gravity. The minister's representative stated in committee that the bill was ready. Members of the majority today declare that they agree to mention in the text of the motion for a resolution that the government must table such a text within six months. I'm glad! At the end of the day, rather than tabling a motion for a resolution, we should have gone straight to the heart of the matter. Better late than never! Come on, let's go! Perhaps we can then co-sign this amendment and, if it is explicit, vote on this motion for a resolution tomorrow. What exactly are we talking about? This was highlighted during the hearings: despite the existing anti-discrimination legal arsenal, the phenomenon is obvious. It has been shown spectacularly in the service securities sector in Flanders through an independent investigation. I do not think that Flanders has a monopoly on it. Both employers and users of the service title system were sometimes reluctant to employ people of allochthonous origin. This is unbearable to us. The phenomenon is known. It is sufficient to observe the rate of non-employment of these people, the difficulties they encounter in obtaining work despite their qualifications. With equal skills, they are less easily engaged. The statistics are clear, each of us knows competent people who are concerned about doing well and who, because of prejudices about their name or skin colour, do not have access to employment. It is a problem of a global society that leads to inequalities, to an ill-being, to a living together that does not work. Laws exist but they are not or poorly enforced. Only one record of this type of discrimination has been drawn up in recent years, so the burden of proof is difficult to establish. Some sectors have introduced self-regulation mechanisms. Let's be positive! This kind of mechanism is better than turning a blind eye to these behaviours. But let's be good. The aim is to avoid being pointed out and to be able to assert that there is indeed a fight against the phenomenon. But is it real, is it effective? We can doubt that. That is the meaning of the amendments that we have advocated in the Committee on Social Affairs, aimed at moving to a higher speed, not only in words but also in acts. Several universities, including Namur, I know well, have developed an analysis of this phenomenon and tools to combat discrimination. They have imagined blind tests that have a scientific interest in objectiveizing the phenomenon and coming out of fantasies and counter talk. This also makes it possible to put pressure on employers. Fortunately, the vast majority of them respect the rules. Who wouldn't play the game? Without this amendment, which would require the government to introduce this legislation within six months and effectively organize inspection services, your resolution would be lukewarm water. Since environmentalists do not particularly appreciate lukewarm water, we cannot support this resolution. With this amendment, we could vote in favour of this text. I encourage the government to break the logic of double standards, to stop being particularly hard on the most fragile and particularly clemency towards the most powerful. In a working relationship, the powerful one is the one who engages and the most fragile one who seeks work. Let us get out of hypocrisy, let us put in place means consistent with the ambitions declared by some of the colleagues in the Committee on Social Affairs. I will not wield cynicism and irony, as long as I feel a little agitation in the assembly, but such a resolution without commitment on acts would be pure hypocrisy! Today's debate may lead to the emergence of more pragmatic intentions. If necessary, I will welcome this with my group and we will take it into account in the light of developments in this afternoon's work.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-plenair-ip059x.u94	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let us be very clear. Like all previous speakers, my group is opposed to any form of discrimination. People are recruited or employed on the basis of qualifications, competences. As far as we are concerned, considerations based on colour or origin have no place in this regard. So let there be no doubt that the Flemish Interest regrets it as a good-looking, competent immigrant somewhere because of its origin or skin color should not work. I don't think it's smart to refuse a capable work force on that base, I even think that's very stupid. And yes, the Flemish Interest, together with you, notes that immigrants are relatively less active in the labour market than Flemings or Walen, and that the level of activity in that group is much lower than in the native population. That's a fact. The explanatory statement to this resolution rightly points out that it is dramatic with the participation of immigrants in our labour market. The resolution calls this politically correct people with a migration background. Having said that, ladies and gentlemen, I am sure you will allow me to bring some nuance to this debate. The fact that there are significantly fewer immigrants on the labour market today gives rise to politically correct circles to talk about discrimination against immigrants on the labour market. However, this conclusion is the result of an ideological obsession which even encourages some people to force the labour market and the government to employ more immigrants, and even to punish them if some of their demands are not met. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have just heard Mr Demir say that there are parties who claim that there is no discrimination. I have heard almost all the parties here. I do not feel addressed and I do not know which party she means, because there is discrimination. She cited the painful example of her brother who was refused entry. That is not only painful, it is unacceptable. Discrimination exists, discrimination needs to be tackled vigorously. There are many forms of discrimination. I am also thinking of discrimination based on political conviction. The fact that people are expelled from the union because of a political conviction is also discrimination. The fact that certain media are boycotting because of a political conviction is also discrimination. But that discrimination is clearly a little less close to your heart. Should there be vigorous action in the event of discrimination? Yes. My question in the light of the resolution before us today is as follows. Is there a structural problem of discrimination in the workplace? Allow me to call in an interview with one of the authors of this motion for a resolution to answer that question. I have to say that this interview dates from just before the election. In the light of the strength of change, therefore, there is a real chance that the opinion has changed in the meantime. A good year ago, on 12 May 2014 you may remember, Mrs Demir............................................................................................................................................... It was mainly about the importance of language knowledge to be able to integrate properly as an immigrant. That is something in which I can not only fully agree, but also something that our party has been hammering for years. The interviewer says the following. I quote: "Find a job with a last name like Demir or Abou Jahjah, easy is different." To which Mrs Demir replied: 'I do not believe that there is structural discrimination in the workplace. A sensible employer does not look at the name of an applicant, who looks at talents and competences. The interview continues. Mrs Demir points out at one point the alarming figures of immigrants in education and unemployment. To which the interviewer once again insists on the question: "So there is a structural problem?" To which Mrs Demir responds immediately: 'But that is not due to discrimination. Anyone who claims to do so must say in concrete terms what it is made of. Colleagues, I fully agree with the Zuhal Demir of a year ago. There is no evidence that there would be structural discrimination in the labour market. Companies are generally very pragmatic, very rational in their actions. It is they, in this capitalist society in which we live, to do so to make their business run as optimal as possible, in order to be as profitable as possible, of course. To this end, they naturally attract the labour force on the labour market, whether white, yellow, brown or black, who, in their opinion, are best suited to meet those needs of employers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-plenair-ip059x.u95	Mrs Pas, Mrs Demir wishes to interrupt you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-plenair-ip059x.u96	Mrs. Pas, I'd like to respond because you're referring to an interview in Doorbraak. That's right, I still support that. I have always said that there is no structural discrimination, and I will continue to say that. But if there is discrimination, then I think it should be addressed, because discrimination cannot and we live in the rule of law. Of course, the best talent must be recruited. The right man or the right woman in the right place, that's the starting point. However, we cannot deny that discrimination may occur in our society. If we cannot tackle this discrimination and cannot punish it, as the hearings have shown, then I think that we should provide for the instruments, because discrimination remains a crime. In a rule of law like ours, I therefore believe that discrimination should be dealt with. This does not mean that there is structural discrimination. That is what I said in that interview and today I say it again. When discrimination occurs, I say very consistently with my group that it needs to be dealt with, and that seems to me to be only normal.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-plenair-ip059x.u97	Mrs Demir, discrimination must indeed be tackled, but if you yourself say that there is no structural problem, then I wonder why you are dealing with motions for resolutions which impose administrative burdens on all employers. If they do not comply, then a true witch hunt follows with investigations and the introduction of targeted controls. With so many liberals in the government, I didn't expect to have to come here and defend the employers. The present proposal for a resolution is totally wrong. I was setting up my reasoning in this respect, and I would like to continue it now. After all, companies rely on the healthy principle that the customer is king. That's a basic principle for a company to thrive optimally. From the logic of the business world to make the business run smoothly, there is no discrimination in the labour market. There are, however, a number of realities that must be taken into account if a company is to be optimally managed and rendered. If immigrants do not find their way into the labour market, there are many reasons for this other than the alleged discrimination in the labour market. Some of these causes are briefly mentioned in the resolution, but they are the essence. There is a lack of a decent migration, integration and integration policy. Thierry Willemarck, the chairman of the Brussels business organisation BECI, says, in response to the alarmingly high unemployment rates among young immigrants in Brussels, that they should take a look in the mirror and that the government should be more active in skipping school. He literally says that the second generation of young people should get kicked in the ass to stick their hands out of their sleeves. I would never dare to put it this way, but I wonder who will contradict the employers if they complain about a lack of work attitude, problems with punctuality, communication, compliance with agreements, commitment and sense of responsibility. An important cause, which has also been mentioned for a while, is the language disadvantage and the poor school results associated with it. Of course, with a good degree one gets better on the job market. The fact is that immigrant workers often do not have the qualifications required by the labour market. They are often insufficiently trained. They do not know the language well in a number of cases. They are not sufficiently assimilated in our society to function fully. In other words, the labour market generally does not want immigrants because they are often not the best forces on the labour market. It is therefore completely inappropriate to culpabilise the business world in this respect, let alone to impose sanctions on companies or sectors of industry to recruit certain workers if there are more suitable staff. This is contrary to the freedom of enterprise, to the freedom to recruit those workers whose employer believes to be the most appropriate to carry out the work that is useful and necessary in the company and to make it run optimally. This is conductive and repressive policy, which not only affects the competitiveness and health of our companies, but also removes some of the basic principles of our society, namely freedom and freedom of enterprise. I read in the committee report that one of the proposers clarifies that public controls should be carried out if the employer fails to prove that he has taken measures to prevent alleged discrimination in the labour market. It states that a series of practical tests, mystery calls, etc., are included and that anonymous checks are accepted. The Flemish interest is of the opinion that companies should be completely free to employ workers who, according to them, are best suited to the needs and most competent. That principle is, by definition, incompatible with the imposition of quotas, self-regulation, self-control and certainly not with targeted controls, practical tests, mystery calls and any bigbrother measures to combat this so-called discrimination in the labour market. It is no different than Stasi espionage practices that belong in totalitarian states and not in free, democratic constitutional states. The Council of State is also very critical of such practical tests. We read this when Flemish Minister Muyters made statements in the Flemish Parliament in response to the debate on alleged discrimination in the service cheque sector. The Council of State is talking about such a difficult issue that constitutional principles may be called into question. They should not be left to the King, but should, at least as far as its essential principles are concerned, be regulated by the legislator himself. It must seek a fair balance between the promotion of equality and non-discrimination and the respect of other fundamental rights and freedoms. It must ensure that the practical test cannot be carried out when accompanied by entitling or deloyal actions. In other words, the Council of State believes that these practical tests are going on very smooth ice. A number of fundamental freedoms and achievements of this democratic rule of law are thereby put at risk. In this discussion, Minister N-VA Muyters rightly stated that he was not in favour of it, as was his party. I note that this is somewhat different in this hemisphere. Flemish Interest has tabled amendments to delete the targeted checks from the resolution. Finally, a word about the role of the government as a model. According to some, there is also alleged discrimination in the labour market with regard to public services. This claim is also merely the fruit of an obsessive ideological possession with anti-discrimination thinking and totally misplaced equality thinking. As a general rule, recruitment by public authorities is carried out through selection procedures. It can be expected that they will be carried out on an objective basis and that they will also aim to recruit the most suitable workforce, as in industry, for the administration in this case. Then I read in the last paragraph of the explanatory statement to this motion for a resolution: finally, the government must be the strictest for itself. Since it imposes rules, in this case the anti-discrimination laws, it must apply them in its own right. For this reason, specific checks must be carried out immediately. Ladies and gentlemen, over the last few months, I have asked the ministers and secretaries of state about the composition of their cabinets, their secretariat, their policy cells, their general policy cells, the full cabinet. I have to say that the politically correct politicians who are now blowing so high off the tower do not excel at all in employing immigrants in their cabinets. The answers I received to my written questions show that a total of 2.5 percent of the staff working in the Cabinets are people with a migration background. That is 16 people out of 645 employed in the ministerial cabinets. In any event, that finding leads me to conclude that those parties are not really well placed to give lessons to other employment sectors in terms of alleged discrimination in the labour market, that they are certainly morally not entitled to require the business world and the civil service to employ immigrant workers when there are other and better labour force available in the labour market. Colleagues, I come to my conclusion. From a so-called center right-wing government called "N-VA," "CD&V," "MR" and "Open Vld" I expected her to show more respect for individual freedoms. I had expected that it would finally be over with the patronage, that it would finally be done to pin the failure of that multicultural society on the native Fleming. We have experienced this sufficiently in the past few decades with the socialists in the government. Unfortunately, I have to say that ethnic victim culture is stronger than ever. While immigrants get all kinds of opportunities here, the Flemings are portrayed as a vulgar gang of racists. The colleagues have already started walking. Apparently, it's very painful. Instead of promoting this ethnic minority victim culture, the majority parties in this government would better emphasise the many opportunities that our society offers. They would better point out their own responsibility to seize those opportunities. That would be much more useful than a motion for a resolution, as it stands today. I think that my speech makes it very clear that you should not expect support from the Flemish Interest Group for such a resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-plenair-ip059x.u98	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I am not going to start the debate again. The issue of discrimination is not only about hiring, it is also on a daily basis in the workplace. In the context of this majority motion for a resolution, I call for the current legislation to apply first and foremost. The lack of effective anti-discrimination laws and the full implementation of these laws is the cause of the reality that was exposed to us during the hearings. When we hear that social inspections receive complaints but do not draw up minutes, it is inquisitive. When it is understood that discrimination is anything but negligible in the public sector, which should, however, set an example, it is another particularly challenging element. A series of avenues have been put on the table, whether it is on the effectiveness of anti-discrimination laws, whether it is on the provision of sufficient resources, including human resources, at the level of social inspection, whether it is on the identification of sectors with problems and higher risks, whether it is on the responsibility and obligation of public employers to set an example in this regard. I will end with a comment of a more political nature. In this resolution, there is a lot of light vocabulary. We are preparing, we are doing things if necessary, we are inspired... I will not repeat the various examples present in the resolution. I do not know whether this is prudence or whether it is simply the reflection and expression of disagreement between the different components of this majority. Let us recall here a few epic debates which have taken place, in particular in the Committee on Social Affairs, between our colleague Mrs Demir, who is here, and the Minister for Employment Kris Peeters. It was obviously revealing, it was mainly focused on mystery calls where positions were very square, even caricatural, within the majority. My political impression is that this resolution leaves me hungry... There's a little fuss in the room, Mr. President. I understand that. It is because we have the honour to welcome the President of the N-VA. [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-plenair-ip059x.u99	This is a historic moment, ten of our colleagues! Let me go back to our sheep. I said that it seemed to me above all to be the expression of this disagreement between the parties of the majority on the mystery calls. During discussions on this resolution, a government party was able to hear that the bill was ready. But in this case, ladies and gentlemen, introduce it to Parliament! Others did not comment on whether or not this bill existed, and especially on the future of the bill. The technique of mystery calls must be marked and used in the last instance, if the other methods fail. It would be totally inappropriate and inappropriate to make use of this process at all times and for any reason. Of course, I expect the majority to take a clearer position on this issue. And most of all, ladies and gentlemen, I expect you to require different bodies to have sufficient resources for social inspection and to have existing laws enforced and monitored. If that were the case, we would have already taken a big step. For all these reasons, we shall abstain from voting on this text. And we are, of course, waiting for the rest.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-plenair-ip059x.u100	Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, here is one more of your alibi resolutions! These are resolutions that can be described as wet firecrackers, but we wet ourselves. I remember your resolution on the Palestinian State, on the fight against poverty... It is part of this line of resolutions, where we announce a good intention. But when we read the text, we find that we are very far from the point of view. Unfortunately, this is the case here too. I would like to start by quoting an anecdote, which concerns my colleague Youssef Handichi, Member of Parliament from Brussels since 2014. At the beginning of his parliamentary life, he arrived in the Brussels Parliament and a policeman barred him from entering Parliament by tutoying him and telling him to clear him. He had to prove his parliamentary status before he could enter. The police officer pointed out to him that it was not written on his head. In fact, he meant the opposite, namely that he did not correspond to the standards of the standard parliamentarian, as is generally considered. This shows the reality of discrimination in our country. You have been quite clear, ladies and gentlemen of the majority. You obviously sign up for the logic of self-regulation. Employers themselves have to self-regulate. Self-regulation is a way of protecting discriminating companies. I'm not the only one who says it. All associations say so, both the Interfederal Centre for Equal Opportunities and the Minderhedenforum, Hand in Hand and Kif Kif. They called on the authorities to organise practical tests and punish companies that discriminate. They say that self-regulation that has been practised for years is a failure. The case of acting is quite significant. This was discussed earlier, in particular with Mrs Demir. As a reminder, in the interim sector, there was this famous Belgian Blue White list, whereby employers asked Adecco to provide Belgian labour. By an acronym, it was said that we did not want foreigners as temporary. It was the PTB that, at the time, unveiled the list of companies that had used this "BBB label" a few years ago. The interim sector then said that it was going to take self-regulation measures. Since then, self-regulation has failed, as the percentage of companies discriminating in the acting sector has increased from 28 % to 29 %. This percentage has not only not decreased but has even increased slightly. These are the very figures of Federgon. Those interested can consult them. Mrs. Demir looked like she was falling apart. The quality label in the interim sector has therefore not had the intended deterrent effect. The parties of the majority praise Federgon. They believe that this is the model to follow and that it is too early to generalize mystery calls. But if we objectively analyse things, we see that it is a failure. Mysterious calls would be possible only in public services and not in the private sector. One can only conclude one thing. It is because the parties of the majority have remained deaf to the associations on the ground and, in their opinion, they prefer the opinion of the employers' organisations (VOKA, UNIZE, FEB, etc.). which, they have been very clear. In fact, the cases of pressure were mentioned. For them, it is not for the public authorities to take into account anti-discrimination legislation. It would also be expected that a company caught in flagrante delicto of discrimination would be severely punished. Here too, the text provides for a last chance. The social inspectorate will first have to work together. Clearly, the majority wants to preserve discriminating companies and at any rate favours self-regulation. What could we do radically different?I will take an example of current events, namely the controls of the Federal Agency for Food Chain Safety (AFSCA) in restaurants. Who organises these controls? It is not the owners of the restaurants themselves, nor the possible victims of food problems, the consumers who complain for a chicken with dioxin or damage. No, it's a federal agency that's in charge of these controls. For us in the PTB, discrimination is a bit the same. It's not just a problem between individuals, it's a social problem. A similar approach is needed. It is for this reason that we believe it would be interesting to consider the creation of a federal agency for equality, which would have two missions. On the one hand, systematically and proactively test companies with regard to discrimination. We know the techniques that can be used:mystery calls, mystery shopping, comparative testing. When one sees the number of food safety controls that AFSCA operates, such an agency, with few staff, could already carry out many controls. Another aspect of this agency's tasks would be to punish discriminating companies. It is clear - the case of the interim sector proves this - that the absence of penalisation means that discrimination is perpetuated or even slightly increased. According to the European directives, sanctions must be heavy enough to be dissuasive. The abolition of a quality label, as in the interim, is not sufficient in this respect. I would like to mention the case of Amsterdam, where a Dancing can lose its license in the event of a demonstration of discrimination. If there was a will of the majority to really combat discrimination, this resolution would be very different. But does the possibility of punishing an employer fit into the philosophical horizon of colleagues of the majority? I wonder.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-plenair-ip059x.u101	Mr President, Mr Van Quickenborne has just said something very important. However, I would like to nuance his words. Mr Van Quickenborne, you are a cool lover of resolutions. I'd like to nuance that. Indeed, resolutions often lead to something, for example when it comes to a bioethical issue or when it comes to getting a dossier on the political agenda for the first time. In fact, you must say that you have used a resolution that does not serve it. In this case, a resolution for what you want to achieve is indeed not appropriate. It is clear that the enforcement of discrimination legislation cannot be outsourced to the social partners or to the sector itself. It has been mentioned by many speakers that self-regulation does not work. We are therefore disappointed, but I hear, see and read now that an amendment is being tabled which meets the conditions and conditions that you had laid down, that it must not go beyond a resolution and that legislative initiatives must be taken. You too are afraid that employers do not always cooperate as quickly as possible. I agree with my fellow Members Mr Gilkinet and Mr Kitir and will not repeat their words. I agree with the comments they have made. It is a pity, however, that the amendment on mystery calls has not been included. I have set an example in committee of the banking sector, where mystery calls for wrong investments work well. So it is an instrument that has already proved its positive effects. Binding objectives with associated sanctions are what we are asking for. For the rest, I will not repeat what has already been explained by other Members.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-plenair-ip059x.u102	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The meeting's over. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-plenair-ip059x.u103	The vote on the amendments that have been tabled and on the whole of the proposal will take place later. The vote on the reserved amendments and on the whole proposal will take place at a later stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-plenair-ip059x.u104	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Sarah Smeyers, Goedele Uyttersprot, Kristien Van Vaerenbergh, Sophie De Wit.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-plenair-ip059x.u105	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mrs Van Cauter, rapporteur, referred to her written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-plenair-ip059x.u106	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (780/4) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (780/4) The title was changed by the committee to "draft law amending the law of 25 Ventôse year XI on the notarial office as regards the appointment requirements." The title has been amended by the commission in "proposal for a law amending the law of 25 Ventôse an XI containing organization of the notariat with regard to the conditions of appointment". The bill has 2 articles. The bill has two articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-plenair-ip059x.u107	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-plenair-ip059x.u108	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Sonja Becq, Nahima Lanjri, Servais Verherstraeten, Goedele Uyttersprot, Carina Van Cauter, Sabien Lahaye-Battheu, Philippe Goffin.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-plenair-ip059x.u109	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mrs Onkelinx, rapporteur, referred to her written report. Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-plenair-ip059x.u110	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (793/5) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (793/5) The title in Dutch was changed by the Committee to "draft law amending Article 1299 of the Code of the Court of Justice, in connection with the appeal against a judgment declaring divorce on the basis of mutual consent, in the event of reconciliation." L'intitulé en néerlandais a été modifié par la commission and "legislative proposal to amend Article 1299 of the Code of the Court of First Instance in relation to the appeal against a judgment declaring divorce on the basis of mutual consent in the event of reconciliation'. The bill has 2 articles. The bill has two articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-plenair-ip059x.u111	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-plenair-ip059x.u112	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Sabien Lahaye-Battheu, Carina Van Cauter.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-plenair-ip059x.u113	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mrs Onkelinx, rapporteur, referred to her written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-plenair-ip059x.u114	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (456/4) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (456/4) The bill has 2 articles. The bill has two articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-plenair-ip059x.u115	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-plenair-ip059x.u116	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Peter Dedecker, Roel Deseyn, Inez De Coninck, Gilles Foret.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-plenair-ip059x.u117	The meeting's open. The discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-plenair-ip059x.u118	Mr President, I refer to my written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-plenair-ip059x.u119	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the author of the resolution, Mr Dedecker is absent and that is a shame. I have repeatedly reminded the committee that the issue of net neutrality is a democratic, cultural and economic issue. Every citizen must be free to access the information he or she wishes. A neutral internet is fundamental to innovation and the creation of economic values. This resolution is a step forward. It supports an ambitious definition of net neutrality, the very one adopted by the European Parliament in April 2014, by a very large majority. A position that is not limited to transparency and the invisible hand of the market to regulate a good of general interest. This is what this is all about: the Internet is not owned by a few private operators; it belongs to all and, as such, it must be regulated in the interests of all. This mandate given to the Belgian Government in the framework of the European discussions comes a little late or even completely too late. As soon as yesterday, the Council of the European Union and the representatives of the European Parliament agreed on a text which, supposedly, must guarantee an open internet throughout the continent. Unfortunately, this claim did not stand up for long to the analysis of all those who have, at least a little, considered this agreement. Let us avoid the disappearance of the word "neutrality" or even the authorization to practise tariff discrimination. From now on, a telecom operator will be able to favour any content as long as it designates it as a specialty service since the agreement provides absolutely no restriction on the type of content to be covered by specialty services. It is therefore a two-speed Internet that Europe is preparing for us. The one where only large U.S. companies will be able to negotiate the status of the specialty service with telecom operators. So, what is the point in voting for this motion for a resolution which aims at preliminary negotiations on this Europe agreement? For the PS Group, tomorrow's vote will have a new scope. First of all, it is a matter of denouncing the agreement of the trialogue. With this vote by a very large majority or even by unanimity, as was the case in committee, Belgium will adopt a firm position. The European text is not a compromise, but the abandonment of a right that has become fundamental to our modern societies, namely access to a neutral Internet. On the other hand, the European procedure has not been completed. So it is not yet too late – we must always hope in life. In doing so, we call for an abandonment of the open internet aspect of the agreement reached yesterday and for only the end of roaming to be retained. In fact, there is only economic interest at the moment. Provisions of general interest do not, for the time being, pass at European level. Like the United States, we must now regard the Internet as a good of general interest and clearly dissociate infrastructure from the content that passes through it. Without startling, Europe will miss out on digital history for giving in, as usual, to the lobbies exercised by the telecoms.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-plenair-ip059x.u120	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to welcome the author of the motion for a resolution, Mr Peter Dedecker. As Mrs Lalieux has said, this proposal has been voted unanimously in committee. The author managed to submit his proposal in a perfect timing. Two days earlier, the European Commission had given its opinion on the matter. On the other hand, I will be much less vindictive than Mrs. Lalieux. Indeed, in my view, progress is significant. Furthermore, the motion for a resolution that we adopted in committee is in line with the agreement reached on Tuesday between Parliament and the European Council. This agreement has, moreover, been reached at the most appropriate level of decision-making. As we have always said, if the decision is to be the most decisive, it must be taken at European level. In any case, it will allow users to have free access to the content of their choice. It will no longer be possible to unjustly block or slow down certain uses of the Internet. Finally, the granting of paid priority treatment will not be allowed, while, of course, maintaining strictly regulated exceptions of general interest. I think this is a positive first step. No, this commission does not give in to the interests of the telecoms. As you know, Mrs Lalieux, it is already a significant step forward to be able to agree on this at European level. This is a step. Of course, the interests of consumers and users will have to be ensured so that they can evolve in a free internet and in a free society. The Liberal Group will vote in favour of this resolution tomorrow. I hope you do the same. I would also like to thank the sponsors of this resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-plenair-ip059x.u121	I would like to reply to my colleague Foret. It is a pity that we do not have a real debate on net neutrality because it is a fundamental issue for the future of the Internet. Europe has completely missed the fact on Tuesday... Besides, they don't even talk about net neutrality, they talk about an open internet. The United States has gone much further. The European Parliament has gone much further. And, today, telecom operators have negotiated roaming against net neutrality. It was clear: the operators did not want both. Roaming has won, neutrality has lost. It is time to mobilize. Many citizens had mobilized for net neutrality. Mobilization is indispensable and necessary. Ladies and gentlemen, of course we are going to vote on this resolution because it is a strong message that we are sending to the government. And the government will not be able to accept the regulation that the Commission is preparing if we vote on this resolution tomorrow. One thing is clear: today there is nothing in the European regulation. We can do what we want, the biggest operators who can pay will obviously be advantaged in terms of infrastructure passage. It is a shame for Europe, for start-ups, for the cultural and economic gains that net neutrality could create. Today, we are really missing out, in any case at European level. I hope that this will be blocked at European state level.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-plenair-ip059x.u122	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I apologise for not being here at the beginning of the discussion of the resolution, which I signed with you. Also the principal carrier, Peter Dedecker, asked me to apologize to him. Mrs Lalieux, we think it is a positive proposal and we think it is a solution. At the request of Mr Dedecker, I would like to thank all colleagues, both from the majority and from the opposition, for their constructive and open cooperation. This is a result, because the day before yesterday an agreement was reached in the European Council, the European Parliament and the European Commission, which is in line with our resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-plenair-ip059x.u123	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The meeting's over. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-plenair-ip059x.u124	The vote on the proposal will take place later. The vote on the proposal will take place at a later stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-plenair-ip059x.u125	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Jef Van den Bergh, Roel Deseyn, Veli Yüksel, Sabien Lahaye-Battheu, Nele Lijnen, Inez De Coninck, Franky Demon, Gilles Foret, Caroline Cassart-Mailleux.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-plenair-ip059x.u126	The meeting's open. The discussion is open. Mr Cheron, rapporteur, is not here. He refers to his written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-plenair-ip059x.u127	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is a rather curious situation that the Infrastructure Committee is currently finishing oral questions and that subjects of the Infrastructure Committee are being discussed at the same time in plenary. That must be something of its own at the end of the political year of work. There has been a lot of debate over the last few months and today in committee on the future of our public transport, on the role of public transport in our society and, not least, on the train. The SNCB Group faces many challenges, particularly in view of the budgetary framework. Efficiency gains will have to be found. At the same time, many challenges and expectations due to society need to be addressed. All these challenges and expectations will have to be translated into management agreements, which will be developed in the second half of the year during negotiations between the FPS Mobility, the Minister and the respective public enterprises. It is therefore a good time to put forward a number of expectations as a Parliament by means of a resolution. In the present proposal for a resolution, we would like to call for specific attention to be paid to persons with reduced mobility. This should become one of the priorities of the management agreements. We want public transport to be accessible to as many people as possible, including those with reduced mobility. After all, passengers with reduced mobility are still suffering too much today. Let me give you some examples. They have to apply for assistants, the train sets and the stations are unadapted, the departures are too high. However, the train should be an option for as many passengers as possible to travel. This requires a lot of attention and investment in all kinds of areas. There is already an investment plan on the issue today, which runs until 2028. It is important now to ensure that the focus on the subject is not weakened in the new management agreements. That is why we want to put forward this motion for a resolution. We therefore call on the government from Parliament to improve access to rail transport. Efforts have already been made, but it can be even better. In concrete terms, we ask for the request time in the large stations to be reduced from 24 hours to one hour. Persons with reduced mobility must apply for their travel in advance. Today, that must be done at least 24 hours in advance. We believe that the ambition should be greater in large stations, where there is sufficient staff. That time limit should be reduced to one hour in order to provide flexibility for those concerned, for example, so that they can stay somewhere for an hour longer than originally planned or go home a little earlier. We believe that this should be possible in stations where there are sufficient staff. We also call for the necessary attention to be paid to accessibility in the procurement of new trains. That too is particularly topical. The record procurement for new M7 vehicles should be completed soon and the attention paid to the accessibility of new train equipment is essential. Adjusting the height of platforms and train sets is an important challenge. That will not be obvious, since we still have three different platforms in Belgium. We believe that it is an important infrastructure challenge to coordinate the platforms and train sets. I think there's still a lot of work to be done here for Infrabel. We ask the government to take account of travellers in its policy and to engage in structural dialogue with the National High Council for Persons with Disability. He represents the experts in the problem and can be used much better and more structuralally to provide advice on how to organise public transport in an accessible way. Another point on which I should like to focus this afternoon was the fact that the on-board fare should not be charged to passengers who are unable to operate the vending machines themselves in stations where there are no counters. Finally, the card should be able to be issued automatically, free of charge, in order to reduce the administrative burden on those travellers. The motion for a resolution receives a great deal of support from interest groups. It's really time. It is important to send out a signal from Parliament that the new management agreement must pay sufficient attention to public transport accessibility so that the train can become a valuable means of transport for all.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-plenair-ip059x.u128	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, mobility, in all its forms, is at the heart of our freedoms, whether to travel, to transport goods or to go to the workplace. The government is concerned about improving the supply, service and quality of services offered by SNCB and Infrabel, in order to meet the expectations of users. Particular attention should also be paid to the specific needs of people with reduced mobility, both at railway stations and on trains. Our Minister of Mobility has highlighted the importance of providing accessible train stations and trains to all and has committed, in her policy note, to continue efforts in terms of accessibility for people with reduced mobility. The objective of barrier-free travel must become a reality in the medium term. It is clear that the current 24-hour deadline for the request for guaranteed assistance is too long in relation to neighbouring countries, especially in the case of stations where permanent assistance is possible. This ambition should be included in the new management contract with SNCB. We fully trust the Minister in honouring this commitment. In conclusion, Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this motion for a resolution gives a strong signal before the conclusion of the next management contract. Here I would like to welcome the sponsors of this motion for a resolution. For all the reasons mentioned, the MR Group will support this text.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-plenair-ip059x.u129	Ladies and gentlemen, 24 hours, today is the request time for assistance for people with disabilities who want to take the train. I think that this is no longer the time, that it is stigmatizing and that we must make an effort in this area. We are, as it were, a third world country in that respect. Our group therefore fully supports this resolution. I myself co-signed the resolution. The application time for guaranteed assistance is currently restricting the freedom of movement of people with disabilities. Many people with disabilities experience that as stigmatizing. What if a meeting ends? What if one wants to take a spontaneous trip? What if one has to go somewhere at the last minute? Twenty-four hours is a much too long wait. Minister Weyts also wants to get rid of the 24-hour rule at De Lijn. We have just mentioned it in committee during the questions. We believe that the Minister is in fact best advised by the National High Council for Persons with Disabilities, as regards the groups that need to be exempted from the EUR 7 on-board rate and the specific conditions in this respect. Secretary of State for Equal Opportunities, Elke Sleurs, will certainly want to participate in this. As the Minister says, a working group has already been set up between the two cabinets. So I think that every step we take here is a step in the right direction. The resolution is very ambitious. We have proposed an application time of one hour. I do not think we can be ambitious enough in this area. Every result we get is a good step forward.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-plenair-ip059x.u130	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, our group has also adopted this resolution because we believe that this issue is very important. Years ago, in this House, we tabled and adopted a resolution on accessibility, also in order to obtain a certain reporting of the investments made for accessibility. Unfortunately, we have to note that the annual report is sometimes omitted. It is important that Mr Van den Bergh's initiative should be supported because, as other speakers have said, there is still a great deal of work to be done. At the committee meeting, we again asked a question about not charging the on-board rate for people with physical or mental disabilities. That doesn't seem to be possible. SNCB says that it is not up to the train attendant to arbitrary in that. Luckily, some train escorts do. I think the Minister himself does not agree with the answer she had to give. She has actually said that she regrets it. If, today, SNCB's response is that it is not yet possible to demonstrate this flexibility for the aircraft fare, then that shows that this resolution still makes sense. My only reflection on the whole project is that it is also necessary to provide the necessary financial resources for these ambitions. Financial resources are not everything. There are other elements in the resolution. That is why we approve them. It is important, however, that the debate that will now take place between the Cabinets, Infrabel and SNCB should look at the financial resources to which they are put, otherwise there will be no autonomy. Our group will therefore certainly vote in favour of this resolution. We hope that it will contribute to the necessary financial resources and that it will create flexibility for the directors of SNCB, because those travellers need additional support.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-plenair-ip059x.u131	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The meeting's over. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-plenair-ip059x.u132	The vote on the proposal will take place later. The vote on the proposal will take place at a later stage. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Thursday, 2 July 2015, at 2.15 p.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 2 July 2015 at 2.15 p.m.
