ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-21-54-plenair-ip047x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-21-54-plenair-ip047x.u2	Colleagues, may I ask your attention? Mrs Temmerman has a question about the organisation of work.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-21-54-plenair-ip047x.u3	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this morning, around 11:15, 11:30, through the press, we heard that there was a shift of powers. The press used other words, which I will not repeat here to Secretary of State Sleurs. We very much regret that we have had to hear this through the press. Moreover, the timing was good: after eleven o'clock. As a result, no further questions can be asked in Question Time. Mr President, I could ask that the Prime Minister be brought forward on the basis of Rule 50 of the Rules of Procedure. I know he's in Riga, so obviously I won't. I would ask, however, that one of the Vice-Prime Minister's officials present here explain to Parliament why that happened. We are amazed by the shift. Parliament should at least have been informed. We also want to know whether this shift is a government decision or a party decision. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, since 2001 we have had a separate Secretary of State for Combating Fraud, because we consider the fight against fraud to be so important. The current government says that it considers the fight against fraud to be very important, but no longer appoints a separate Secretary of State and will add it as an appendix to a minister. The government also claims that there would be more uniform powers. In fact, social and fiscal fraud would be a homogeneous package. There would still be some logic in that, but that logic is not used. One takes away the powers of a secretary of state and adds them to a minister. Mr President, can one of the members of the government give us a statement on this?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-21-54-plenair-ip047x.u4	Mr Nollet has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-21-54-plenair-ip047x.u5	Mr President, my question deals with another subject. I think it is important that the government respond first to this aspect.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-21-54-plenair-ip047x.u6	Mr President, Mr Van Hees will be asking a question about the fact that, in our view, there is no fight against tax fraud in Belgium. He'll be asking Minister Geens a question later. I am sorry that we have to hear from the press that the composition of the government has changed. Although we are going to ask ourselves a question about tax fraud, I propose that we have a topical debate. It's not every day that the government is being pushed around with powers, is it? Let us have a serene debate on this with a majority and opposition, in the hope that someone in this country will eventually be involved in the fight against tax fraud. The problem with this government is that more than enough ministers are chasing the poor and controlling the unemployed. But for the fight against tax fraud, there is no one left. Mrs Sleurs was apparently incapable of combating tax fraud. I would like to know whether the government will finally make the fight against tax fraud a priority. Or do you continue to fight the poor and the unemployed?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-21-54-plenair-ip047x.u7	Mr President, in fact, we have learned from the press the reshaping of powers within the government. This is not an anomalous information since it is the competence to combat tax fraud. It is on this jurisdiction that the government relies on its fiscal adjustment, as well as on finding a new source of funding for its future tax reform. So it's something central. And we learn it from the press. We must note that the Prime Minister is not here to talk about it. He's abroad. No doubt it's been planned for a long time, I'm not questioning him. But could this reshaping of powers not have occurred at a time when the Prime Minister himself could have come to explain it to us? We will therefore expect a member of the government, a deputy prime minister, to tell us a little more. First of all, the reasons for this reshuffle. Is this a disavowal? I don't know; I ask the question. I don't want to sue for intent. Is it a desire to optimize the distribution of competences? Then let us know why. Indeed, it has been a tradition in recent years to make it a specific competence, given the importance, given the stakes involved. And then, Mr President, you will admit that it redistributes the cards a little bit, that it redefines the political situation. Therefore, we would like to know officially who is responsible for this new competence, and that the new minister in charge will come to explain it to us in a forthcoming Finance Committee, where he will come to defend a new general policy note. That is our request, Mr President: we would like to present a new general policy note with, of course, the ensuing political debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-21-54-plenair-ip047x.u8	Mr President, Minister, on the form, you will agree that it is particular to learn, through a press release from the N-VA or the Secretary of State herself, that there is a redistribution of powers within the government. It is not annoyed in the budgetary context that we know about the importance of tax fraud: EUR 20 billion which escapes every year from the state budget due to fraud. I'd say that, basically, it's good news and bad news. This is good news because the newspapers say that Mrs Sleurs will stop fighting tax fraud. In fact, it has not really begun to fight tax fraud. He was seen at the time of the presentation of his policy note. It takes more than six weeks to answer oral questions and the written questions are not answered. Obviously, he was not interested in the subject. It was a bad casting. That is the good news! As for the bad news, I fear that the fight against tax evasion will not be the government's priority, unless – this is a chance to be left to you – the Minister of Finance decides that it is his first mission and that he will give himself the means to do better than Mrs Sleurs. Will a member of the government explain the reasons for this casting change? On the agenda next week in the Committee on Finance, will the Minister of Finance come to present to us his intentions and his means in the fight against tax fraud? Ms. Sleurs had presented a rather indigent note on the matter, but at least there was a note. Will there be a general policy note from the Minister of Finance on his policy on combating tax evasion? That must be a priority. It has not been so far in the head of government who does not know what tax justice or social justice is.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-21-54-plenair-ip047x.u9	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have heard Mr Gilkinet, Mr Laaouej and Mrs Temmerman. To give the impression that tax fraud is not important for Parliament and for the current government is not correct. We had an exchange of views on the subject all yesterday. The opposition has even admitted that the commitment we have made to hold talks which I have even referred to as nominatim has been fully respected. We hear the Court of Auditors on Tuesday afternoon on budgetary control. The Minister of Finance will also be present at that committee session. I will certainly place the item on the agenda as well. Here, however, it is wrong to say that tax fraud is not a priority of the current government or of Parliament during the current legislature. In that case, I was not present on that committee. Up to 80% of our time this problem is discussed. Questions are also being asked about it. Mr Gilkinet, Mrs Sleurs has always come straight to Parliament to answer the questions. She has two more questions to answer. Mrs Temmerman, all the relevant questions have been asked. You must, of course, want to listen to the answers, which was often not the case with the opposition. I shall, however, put the item on the agenda for the next week immediately.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-21-54-plenair-ip047x.u10	(...) the Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-21-54-plenair-ip047x.u11	The Prime Minister isn't here. I may not have heard it correctly, but Mr Gilkinet has asked that next Tuesday's item should be the first item on the agenda of the Finance Committee. Minister Van Overtveldt will be present at that committee session on budgetary control. That is a commitment of the committee, which I would certainly like to address.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-21-54-plenair-ip047x.u12	Mr. Gilkinet, you asked for a response from the government. The government will respond through Deputy Prime Minister Kris Peeters.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-21-54-plenair-ip047x.u13	Mr President, the Prime Minister must attend an important meeting in Riga. I very much appreciate your understanding of that. The Prime Minister is prepared to give full text and explanations on the questions that have been asked. However, I can already underline two things. Firstly, the matter was discussed at the heart of the matter this morning, but no formal decision has yet been taken. The KB has not yet been signed by the Prime Minister. Secondly, I would like to underline what Mr Van Rompuy has already said. There can be no discussion that the fight against tax fraud is also a government priority. It's gonna stay that way. The Prime Minister can explain this when he returns. He will be happy to explain this in Parliament next week, if you ask, Mr President. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-21-54-plenair-ip047x.u14	Two elements. Firstly, we take note of the Government's response. Secondly, I also take note of the proposal put forward by the chairman of the Finance Committee to hold an exchange of views on Tuesday.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-21-54-plenair-ip047x.u15	Mr President, Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, this is unbelievable. I appreciate your opening, and I certainly appreciate the opening the President has made to answer a few questions. The main question is why this is happening. You say, Minister, that this is a decision taken at the heart of the matter this morning. Then there is, in my view, no objection to you saying why. The Prime Minister is indeed not here and we cannot question him. We can't question you either, but we can't formally, because after 11:00 you brought the cases to the press. So the press knows more than this Parliament once again. After all, it's in the press. I assume, therefore, that you say that you are not yet able to say anything about it because it is not yet certain, because it has not yet been formally decided. However, we have read it differently in the press. Mr President, I would ask you to convene Parliament on Tuesday, as soon as the Prime Minister is here and available, so that the Prime Minister can explain why this is happening, how this shift is taking place and who has decided this right.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-21-54-plenair-ip047x.u16	Mr President, a change of jurisdiction is never annoyance. It has meaning. In this case, many of us can take this as a disavowal. What you said, Deputy Prime Minister, is important – as usual, you will retaliate to me. You said, in the first part, that an agreement had been reached in Kern but that the Prime Minister had not yet validated it, with a royal order still to be made. You added that the Prime Minister already agreed to come and speak on the subject. This is very different from what Mr. Van Rompuy, who calls for a small discussion in the Finance Committee with the ministers concerned. To take up Deputy Prime Minister Peeters' proposal, how can we organize the work so that the Prime Minister can explain this change of jurisdiction? Would it be in the Committee on General Affairs? In the Finance Committee? Or in plenary?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-21-54-plenair-ip047x.u17	Mr President, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, thank you for these explanations. You can't be said to have been very convincing. I am not sure, moreover, that the Prime Minister, if he comes to explain this, will be more so. In the end, what will he do? He will of course protect his majority when it is – everyone will have understood it, let's call a cat a cat – on the part of this government, a terrible admission of failure on the effectiveness of the Secretary of State in combating tax fraud. The decision is therefore taken. It must be confirmed by a royal decree. The Minister of Finance will have to assume this responsibility. Personally, I have only one call for this majority: that the Minister of Finance be able to take full responsibility for the fight against tax fraud and that, finally, within this government, we be able to make progress on this point. Indeed, I repeat, it is a confession of failure. And the majority joins, in fact, what the opposition has been saying for several months! Let us hope that this change in ministerial casting will finally lead to results, namely that the government puts equity at the centre of its decisions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-21-54-plenair-ip047x.u18	Mr President, while I understand Mr Peeters' explanations correctly, the government has not decided on this casting change. I conclude that this decision was made by the Prime Minister of Antwerp. That is the first point I want to make. To respond to Mr. Van Rompuy, I do stress the role of the latter as chairman of the Committee on Finance, the hearings and the work we are doing in the fight against tax fraud. However, on the one hand, I note that colleagues in the majority are dragging their feet and, on the other hand, I stress that the House and the government are two distinct things. There is a militant passivity within the government in the fight against fraud, at the limit of promoting fraud. I had compared Mrs Sleurs to the anti-matter of this government, so her role in the fight against fraud was negative. Indeed, the first step she had taken was to try to raise the amount of eligible cash payment, which was precisely likely to encourage fraud. It is finally a good thing that she is being replaced in this position. Time is too short to say what the government has done to combat tax evasion. I am thinking not only of diamonds but also of Seychelles, a country with which a tax treaty is concluded as it is on the Belgian list of tax havens.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-21-54-plenair-ip047x.u19	Mr President, Mr Van Rompuy, I have asked for two things: firstly, a statement by the government and secondly, a new policy paper from the Minister of Finance. The government's explanation is a little short. In the morning, we had a press release from an N-VA firm announcing this change. The vice-first confirms that the matter has been discussed within the government but not decided since there is no royal decree. It's blurry to say the least! A change of powers within a government is not annoyance, especially in view of the importance of competence in the fight against tax fraud. The Prime Minister must come and explain to us the meaning of this change and what it means at the level of his government. Once this is clarified, it is indeed necessary for the newly appointed Minister responsible for tax fraud to come and explain himself in the Finance Committee and to have a discussion on the subject. Mr Van Rompuy, when you say that the Finance Committee is dealing with a lot of tax fraud, it is at the initiative of the Members who are asking questions and not at all at the initiative of the Government. We will have the opportunity, as part of the program law, to discuss your Cayman tax and this gift to diamond dealers in tax matters. You're doing the opposite! We have lost a year in the fight against tax fraud with this puppet Secretary of State! It's time to take things back in the right order.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-21-54-plenair-ip047x.u20	Ladies and gentlemen, it is time to conclude. Finally, I would like to give the floor to Mr Flahaux.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-21-54-plenair-ip047x.u21	Mr President, I do not want to be controversial, but I simply find it regrettable that a minister is being attacked in his absence. I would like to say that Mrs Sleurs is extremely effective in the Social Emancipation Opinion Committee, which the chairman of the Social Emancipation Committee will recognise. Ms. Sleurs is implementing extremely important projects, particularly with regard to transsexuals. These are claims of the Belgian Pride which took place recently. I also want to say that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-21-54-plenair-ip047x.u22	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-21-54-plenair-ip047x.u23	Mrs. Onkelinx, I'm trying to conclude this discussion. Ladies and gentlemen, I have allowed you all to speak, and now it is time to decide. Firstly, there is Mr Van Rompuy's proposal to invite the Minister of Finance to discuss this on Tuesday in the Finance Committee, which was already planned. Secondly, the proposal was formulated by Deputy Prime Minister Peeters, expressing the Prime Minister's willingness to explain it here. We will convene the Conference of Presidents, which will examine when the time is right to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-21-54-plenair-ip047x.u24	(...) [[no micro]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-21-54-plenair-ip047x.u25	I propose that we proceed to the oral questions and that we agree on what has just been decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-21-54-plenair-ip047x.u26	(...) [[no micro]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-21-54-plenair-ip047x.u27	Absolutely, but those rights, Mrs. Temmerman, became extensive...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-21-54-plenair-ip047x.u28	(...) [[no micro]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-21-54-plenair-ip047x.u29	If that is what you want, we will vote on it later. However, that must not prevent us from...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-21-54-plenair-ip047x.u30	Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the succession of Mrs Sleurs at the request of my fellow Members of the MR. (...) [[no micro]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-21-54-plenair-ip047x.u31	First of all, there is no formal issue. We don't know anything. I don't have any documents. This isn't the case. We shall now proceed to the oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-21-54-plenair-ip047x.u32	Mr President, Mr Vice Prime Minister, you are back from an important mission to Japan. You look all zen. Perhaps we could ask some members of the opposition to undertake a similar journey to calm down a little and gain some strength. All madness on a limb, I hope it was a successful mission and that you have also been able to achieve political and economic successes. You know my opinion of these missions abroad. We live in a complex country with a difficult structure of competence. It is a shared competence structure involving different levels. I am a strong supporter of what we call cooperation federalism. How we deal with it internally here, no one really has any business with it. I assume all the powers were respected in the exercise of that mission. However, I do not think that the Japanese are very interested in hearing from us on such a mission how we have dealt with our affairs internally. However, I have seen that services at the regional level have also been regularly put forward, so I think that there have been internal agreements. I therefore do not understand the Community fever outbreak that I received yesterday from a state parliament. Mr Vice Prime Minister, I assume that I would like to hear you confirm that we have respected the power structure of our country in the exercise of that mission. I think it is much more important that you tell me what you have achieved. Have you been able to make investments for our country? Will forward-looking investments be made with Japanese funding? Will jobs be created? In my opinion, public opinion is more concerned with these questions than with whether or not they should be in the front row when cutting the ribbon. Mr Vice Prime Minister, I look forward to your answers with interest.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-21-54-plenair-ip047x.u33	Mr President, Minister, when I leave on a foreign mission, I need the permission of, firstly, my wife and, secondly, my party. I almost always listen to my wife, to my party sometimes. Minister, if you are going on a foreign mission, you will need the permission of your wife, that will not be a problem, of your party, I assume that this is not a problem either, and also of your government. In your government there are people of many kinds, people of your own party, but equally people of the N-VA. Mr Jambon sits there, Mr Francken also occasionally sits there, I suppose. When you announced that you were going to Japan, they will have said that you were allowed to go or were not allowed to go. Were you allowed to go, or were you not allowed to go, Minister? Did the N-VA agree to your mission to Japan? Did the N-VA agree to the way you went to Japan? Yeah, well, you took the plane. After a long negotiation, you were allowed to take the plane. I am not going to make a fool of myself, because otherwise I will be called Parliament's clown again in some media. Minister, you have raised a number of dossiers which are important for the Flemish ports and also for our beer economy. One can laugh at that, but that has been an important approach. You have not only argued for your own beer brand Duvel, but you have also broken the gate for other beer brands in Flanders and Wallonia, even for Mr Friart's beer brand St-Feuillien. What are the concrete results in the files you have raised?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-21-54-plenair-ip047x.u34	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the trip to Japan was a work visit which was primarily a diplomatic bilateral visit to strengthen relations between Japan and Belgium. The history of this visit dates even from the previous government, because it was Prime Minister Di Rupo and Prime Minister Abe of Japan who agreed in May last year to organise something. Something was first organized in Japan and next year, when 150 years of bilateral relations between Japan and Belgium are celebrated, the Prime Minister of Japan comes to Belgium. That was agreed and we implemented it, because continuity is very important in the area of foreign policy. Secondly, the mission is very thoroughly prepared. The Foreign Investment Liaison Cell held several meetings on this subject. The foreign investment liaison unit, chaired by Flanders Investment & Trade, comprises all the agencies of the regions. The Minister for Foreign Affairs, Finance and so on also has a representative. There are two reports, from 29 January and 24 February. There are others in which the visit was discussed. It explains neatly what the different elements of the visit would be. It is therefore quite wrong that the mission was prepared in great ignorance of the Regions. On the contrary, the reports are very clear on this. During the visit we made very important contacts. Some important issues have been addressed at the federal level, such as the free trade agreement between Japan and the European Union, tariffs, beers and also non-tariff problems. We have also highlighted the MYRRHA project, a federal project located in Flanders that costs more than EUR 1 billion and we have tried to warm the Japanese up to it. Finally, labour costs have also been addressed in all contacts, a problem which is at the federal level. We have given text and explanations on the measures we have decided on and on the measures we will decide on. Mr Dewael, you are right, which is why I do not understand. The most important thing is that there was at least one company that said that it would invest 350 million euros in Antwerp's Zwijndrecht. It was greatly appreciated that the Prime Minister and the Deputy Prime Minister were present in the company to give the message that we are very pleased with the investment. Of course Flanders Investment & Trade has done a lot of work on this. It is to be commended that after months, perhaps even years, the operation of the company has resulted in EUR 350 million being invested, resulting in employment. The same goes for Daikin and the other companies. It is no problem for me to emphasise the efforts of Flanders Investment & Trade very strongly. The federal level, within its powers, is committed to strengthening these efforts. That's all that matters. I hope that the discussion here is over. We are at the service of the Regions and underline the importance of their powers. However, we are doing everything we can to ensure that Japanese companies invest here and create jobs.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-21-54-plenair-ip047x.u35	Mr Vice Prime Minister, I welcome your answer. I would like to stress once again that we are always mixed in the performance of such missions: there are matters that belong to the federal level and matters that belong to the sub-state level. It is important to join forces. I call that federalism, and I am pleased, Minister, that you are also showing some progress in this area. I'm just noticing that. Secondly, I think our assets should be played out. Notional interest is apparently more popular abroad than sometimes here when we discuss it in our own Parliament. Those are assets we have to play out. I want to end with a statement by Deng, not a Japanese one, but a Chinese one: whether the cat is white or black, it doesn't matter if she catches mice. That's what happened.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-21-54-plenair-ip047x.u36	Minister, I will not congratulate you, although I tend to do so. You did what you had to do, even if you might have done it with the wrong coat. As former Prime Minister of the Flemish Government, you must also realise that this subject is very sensitive in Flanders. You could and should have seen that. At least you could have consulted your government partners on this. But I'm from the Jesuits, and so I'm a big fan of Francis Xavier: you've accomplished your mission.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-21-54-plenair-ip047x.u37	Mr President, Mr Vice-Minister, since the Universal Exposition existed, the Belgian pavilion has always represented a beautiful image of our country. This time in Milan, it turned into a fiasco. Different elements have made things go very badly. For problems of wages and working conditions, twenty people from the Horeca have resigned, a starred chef has left because of overwork, furniture has not been delivered. In short, it really didn't go well when we know that the installation of the pavilion cost EUR 13 million. Deputy Prime Minister, what happened? Have there been any established responsibilities for malfunctions? Is it true that the staff was paid 25 euros a day? What steps have you taken to address the problems? What is the situation today?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-21-54-plenair-ip047x.u38	Mr President, Mrs Caprasse, ladies and gentlemen, I very much regret the controversy surrounding our pavilion in Milan. We, Jan Jambon and I, visited the pavilion on May 9, 2015. At that time, everyone was very positive. We note, however, that there are some problems now. I have therefore asked the Milan Exhibition Office to provide me as soon as possible with a full report on the problems which have been reported and which concern some staff members, their working conditions and their contracts. I am convinced that the police station will find solutions quickly. I am also prepared to send this report to Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-21-54-plenair-ip047x.u39	Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, thank you for your explanation. I hope that in the next few years, there will be no more negative incidents. At least we were a little surprised to see Italians serving the fries. As you have been in Japan and you have given a very beautiful picture of Belgium by serving the fries with the Prime Minister, it would perhaps be an image you could give when you return to serve the fries in Milan!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-21-54-plenair-ip047x.u40	Mr President, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, as I speak to you, the troops of the Islamic State control much of the Middle East. Their determination is without counting. Not satisfied with wanting to impose radical Islam on a whole part of the planet, they are complacent in unthinkable acts of barbarity. They also announce attacks on European territory. The European Union has still not solved the problem of migrants. Our European leaders are trying to agree on a strategy to counter these flows, while preserving the human nature of the interventions. The press confirms the opinion of several experts who claim that terrorists are more than likely to mix with migrants in order to have access to Italy and thus, a few weeks or even days later, find themselves in one of the European states. It also appears that the budget allocated to Frontex is increased to strengthen controls in the Mediterranean Sea and to focus exclusively on Libya's departures. This has the effect of leaving a great deal of freedom for other smaller boats, composed of people who do not flee from war or misery, to cross the Mediterranean and to dock in other Sicilian ports than the internationally known ports. I am against the arrest yesterday in Milan, a city in the north of Italy, a few hours from Belgium, of an alleged jihadist who allegedly participated in the attack of the Bardo Museum in Tunis on 18 March. The latter did not travel under cover of a tourist visa. Deputy Prime Minister, my questions are simple. Given that the risk is not only diversifying but also intensifying because terrorists use various tactics to enter Schengen territory, what measures do you intend to take to protect Belgian citizens, as long as Europe organises itself effectively to control its borders? Do we expect to be the victims of a new attack in order to react at the level of our borders and, without falling back on ourselves, to be more vigilant about the limits of access to our territory?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-21-54-plenair-ip047x.u41	Mr President, Mr Carcaci, let me first say that I share your concern. Indeed, as Minister of Security and Home Affairs, the security of our compatriots is one of my top priorities. In the meantime, border controls have already been strengthened at both national and European level. For this very reason, our country has played and is still playing a pioneering role at this level. The borders of the Schengen area are more subject to controls, which are much more targeted than before because they are carried out on the basis of commonly defined risk profiles. The Belgian police also adopt the same methodology. Member States may also call on the Schengen system to ensure that individuals suspected of terrorist acts are reported at international level. The risk of these people entering the Schengen area unnoticed is thus greatly reduced. Our country was one of the first to use this system intensively. In the meantime, many Member States have followed us in this process and are automatically exchanging information on these alerts. Our security services are extremely vigilant, not only in order to apprehend reported persons and to track and track suspicious persons, but also in order to report and arrest them through the same system.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-21-54-plenair-ip047x.u42	Deputy Prime Minister, I would like to thank you for your answer. But we still have to be pro-active, because the reactivity in this matter is usually combined with a tragedy. For once, let us take a step ahead of terrorists in order also to alleviate the workload of the State Security and the anti-terrorist brigades of the Federal Police, whose members, let us recall, risk their lives during each reactive intervention.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-21-54-plenair-ip047x.u43	Mr President, Minister, on Tuesday 12 May a riot broke out on board the Brussels-Casablanca flight. On the plane was a Nigerian lady who had previously been convicted in Spain for falsehood in writing, beatings and injuries and forbidden weapons. It's the fourth attempt to repatriate this lady, escorted by two Moroccan security officers. This time it looked like the forced return would succeed, but that was counted without another passenger. On the same flight was our colleague, Mr Emir Kir of the PS, who tried to prevent this forced return. Minister, it is very important to know the pure truth. Return policy is not an issue to be played with. It is the culmination of a rigorous and fair migration policy. The government's lines are clear, namely voluntary if possible, forced if necessary. The cops have to follow those rules. If they do not, they must be punished. If they do, it is up to all of us not to discredit them in the performance of this not evident human task. Mr Minister, on behalf of the N-VA I have the following questions for you: can you please tell us exactly what happened there? Have you received a report or a report regarding this escort, so about the attitude of our police officers and of the two Moroccan security officers? Mr. Kir accuses the officers who accompanied the lady of psychological and physical violence. This is a serious accusation. Can you clarify this? What will be the consequences if it comes to light who has not complied with the rules in force?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-21-54-plenair-ip047x.u44	Mr President, first let me get the facts straight. On Wednesday 13 May I was informed by my police services of an incident that had occurred Tuesday evening, 12 May, during the repatriation of a Nigerian illegal lady. The incident occurred on a flight from Royal Air Maroc from Zaventem to Casablanca. This woman arrived at the airport on March 1st. She was in possession of false travel documents and was denied access to our territory. According to the existing procedures, it was therefore transferred to a closed centre for the purpose of its return. After identifying the person concerned, it appeared that she had already started asylum procedures in Spain and the Netherlands under two false names. In Spain she was sentenced to three and a half years in prison. In addition, it was ended up in the SIS. After several times refusing to return voluntarily, she was transferred to the airport on 12 May for forced return. The person concerned behaved extremely aggressively and strongly resisted during the shipment. She wounded a police officer here. Once on the plane, as usual, she was taken over by the Moroccan security officers of Royal Air Maroc. The woman kept resisting verbally. Two passengers started a rebellion against this repatriation. One of these passengers made himself known as a Belgian representative. He was later identified as Emir Kir. Despite this rebellion, the repatriation continued fortunately. The police have prepared a report of this incident. Ladies and gentlemen, following a number of similar incidents in recent years, the government wants to send a clear signal that such unauthorized practices cannot be carried out. It is not up to MEPs to organize a rebellion against a fully legitimate repatriation. Our country is still suffering from the collective trauma caused by the death of the Nigerian woman Semira Adamu at the time. Since then, return policy has been subject to extremely strict rules. My police services are very strict on these rules. Forced return is always a delicate operation. Interventions by Members of Parliament only make this delicate police work more difficult. A criminal complaint has therefore been lodged by the DVZ at the Halle-Vilvoorde parquet on the basis of articles of aviation law. I've asked the General Inspectorate to draw up a report. That will be delivered to me. If the accusations made by the Member of Parliament against the police prove to be outrageous, I find this behaviour to be low, cheap and unworthy of a Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-21-54-plenair-ip047x.u45	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-21-54-plenair-ip047x.u46	Mr. Kir, please wait a moment and let Mrs. Smeyers reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-21-54-plenair-ip047x.u47	Minister, I am very glad that you are not covering up this incident and that you are sending a clear signal by submitting a complaint. It has now been four times in a short time that a Member of Parliament feels called upon to use his position differently and to extend it to rebellion during a return flight. Mrs Onkelinx, Mr Saïdi, Mr Khattabi and Mr Mandaila have preceded Mr Kir in undermining the authority of the police. That's not their job. It is of the utmost importance that politicians and the police are on the same page. It is really no fun for agents and for social workers to have to accompany people who do not want to return voluntarily and possibly even have to escort them during the flight. If it were to turn out that a Member of Parliament would have disturbed the relative tranquility there was by burning up other passengers and as if it were to turn out... (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-21-54-plenair-ip047x.u48	Apparently, it's hard to get me to pronounce. If, therefore, it turns out that he falsely accused the police of violence against this Nigerian lady, then I hope that Mr Kir will accept his responsibility. A self-respecting Member of Parliament leads opposition in Parliament, not on an airplane.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-21-54-plenair-ip047x.u49	Mr Kir, you have the floor for a personal fact.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-21-54-plenair-ip047x.u50	Mr President, I note that the Minister of the Interior and the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration hastened to say that they will file a complaint against me. Today, they say they're going to wait for a report. You're making communication for your electorate! I didn't communicate! What I witnessed a week ago, I kept it for myself and decided to question you in Parliament. You, learning from the Minutes, decided to communicate by saying that you were going to file a complaint against Mr Emir Kir, without having read a report, without having listened to the other's opinion. Ladies and gentlemen, let me say what I saw when I left Royal Air Maroc. Before we got in, the aircraft staff told us that there might be a little noise, there would be screams, and maybe we'd be a little late. We were wondering what was going to happen. I was sitting in the bottom of the plane. I see strong enough people hiding another person, with cushions. A grieving woman is crying all the time, crying, asking in English to be able to stay. The atmosphere on the plane is unbearable. Seconds are passing and people are starting to get angry. This is becoming intolerable. She's trying to get out of here. We use violence, what you don't want to hear, physical and psychological violence against this woman. At one point, the Belgians, the Africans who were on that plane, stood up like one man to say stop the violence. You must hear all this! It was unbearable! Moroccan and Belgian police officers, along with the crew, tried to intimidate us. They pushed women, they yelled. They were asked to stop and that was when I tried mediation. I said I was a member of Parliament, I knew the law. I asked for respect for the physical integrity of this woman. At that time, an African gentleman, a wise man, went to talk to that woman. He was the one who calmed her down and calmed her down. I am outraged by your attitude to both of you and I hope that the government will not follow your path. You just want to expel. This woman is a human being, she may be of color, but she's a woman. Like you, like me! And she has rights and you have to respect those rights. I'll tell Messrs. Jambon and Franken. I'm going to ask you if we can change this policy. The African gentleman has shown us the way. Such policies can be practiced but with a human approach. Everyone has rights in this country. Belgium is and will remain a humanist country, despite you!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-21-54-plenair-ip047x.u51	Mr President, today I am a Member of Parliament and a Member of Parliament for about 20 years. I very much regret that in a political game a colleague is being dealt with here without a single file and without any means of defence. I've never seen that before. Such practices do not belong in Parliament either. There are procedures for this. We've been through all kinds of things here. There are procedures for this. However, I do not think that such an approach should be included in an assembly such as ours. Colleagues, that being said, the Minister has just used terms such as collective trauma and delicate police work in the question. Mr Deputy Prime Minister, it has been a while since I questioned you about the problems of radicalism. There are incidents, possibly due to misuse or misuse of well-meaning measures. Properly designed measures that are not correctly applied will break your delicate police work at the local level. They provide trauma dressings at the local level. I am talking, for example, about young people who are saving to go on holiday and who are suddenly prevented from going on vacation as a result of an intervention, when it turns out that there is no reason to refuse them on a plane. I am talking, for example, about workers who lose their jobs after working at the airport for years, through the application of measures, while it turns out that there is no reason to cause those concerned to lose their jobs. However, they have fallen into unemployment. Moreover, just before I came to Parliament, I was contacted by a number of families and by my police department, who reported that the Foreign Affairs Department, by registered letters, was pressing the families concerned to surrender the international travel pass. However, following investigations by our police officers who follow the families in question, because there are even more problems of radicalism among brothers, sisters and so on, it appears that all the governments and all the security services in our country know that they are people who have died or who are staying in Iraq or Syria. Mr. Secretary, what's going on here? In this way, delicate police work is destroyed at the base. In this way, even new risks to radicalism are created. I would like to make it clear what is happening.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-21-54-plenair-ip047x.u52	Mr Bonte, first of all I would like to thank you for identifying these problems on the ground. It is important for us that these signals come to us so that we can intervene. If the facts are indeed as you say, we must adjust them. There's no doubt about that. As far as the actions of the staff mandated by the Foreign Office are concerned, I have contacted my colleague. The initiative is based on the federal prosecutor's office. The federal prosecutor instructs the foreign affairs staff to act and that is confirmed in a registered letter. The law prescribes that. It may happen that, while they are carrying out that task, there are new developments in the sense that, for example, the person concerned died in Syria and they are not aware of it. That is very regrettable; of course we do not wish it to be. I will certainly take your comments to heart and see how we can adjust the procedures in this area so that such matters do not happen again. However, I also need something off my chest. Of course, it would be best if all these interventions were done correctly and precisely. But I would rather have one intervention too much, although it is indeed regrettable for that one person or that one family, than one intervention too little, which could lead to a security risk for the whole community. Then I know what to choose.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-21-54-plenair-ip047x.u53	Minister, over the past few months and years we have learned how difficult it is to tackle radicalism. I know you're expected to be in my city hall for a day of study on this. One thing should be clear: a good approach always requires close cooperation between federal services, local police forces and local administrative services. The only thing I notice is that letters are sent to families with information, while federal services know perfectly or can know that they end up with the wrong people. I made a phone call to the OCAD to establish that those involved were recognized as dead in Iraq. So the federal administrations are aware of that. It's the blind application that's causing risks and destroying the delicate police work that I'm referring to, which you're referring to. That is why I would certainly like to inform you of every case in this area. Finally, I would like to point out that the letter is sent by registered mail, without mentioning a reference person and with the announcement that no further explanation will be given on the dossier. But in administrative law, you have to check this out, Mr Minister, someone who is subject to a measure must always know the origin of the measure. That is not the case here.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-21-54-plenair-ip047x.u54	Mr President, Minister, a few months ago I suggested to our group that we ask a question about motorcycle gangs. They took that off a little laughing as a problem especially Maasland. It was not considered to be heavy enough to raise this issue in plenary. Perhaps you share my view that the problem is getting a little wider than that. About a month ago, I had the honour of being invited by a fellow mayor from Ravels, Mr Luyten. Ravels is almost a neighborhood of Brasschaat, I think, somewhere near there anyway. I urgently need to look into the regional distribution in Antwerp. That colloquium showed quite clearly that quite a few mayors are struggling with the problems of motor gangs that are mainly in the border region, but also more and more in the interior. This is caused by a displacement effect that is likely to arise. In Germany, measures have been taken banning even a motorcycle gang. It seems that this can be done through certain German legislation. Measures will also be taken in the Netherlands. I do get a more acute question from a number of mayors to refer to it. For the sake of fairness, I must also say that, when preparing my question, I found that written questions were also put to you by, if I am not mistaken, Mr Thiébaut and Mr Goffin. In Wallonia, too, the problem is apparently beginning to manifest itself. This is becoming more and more topical. I hear from the field and from specialist services that the question is not whether there will be a confrontation, but when. What is your policy on this, Minister? What can you do to ensure the safety of all citizens, not by municipality, but throughout Flanders and throughout Belgium?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-21-54-plenair-ip047x.u55	Mr. Terwinge, your knowledge of motorcycle gangs transcends your knowledge of the geography between Brasschaat and Ravels. That distance with the engine is small, but on foot that's not all. Motorcycle gang policy is similar to that of other international criminal cases, in particular an organised exchange of information between the different neighbouring countries. We have this organized exchange of information with France, Germany and also with the Netherlands. This is often done via Europol, but there is a forum for the Netherlands and Germany, a kind of working group where the police forces of the Netherlands, Germany and our country meet on a regular basis and exchange information about those motorcycle gangs. We know that in Germany a certain motorcycle gang with a difficult name is forbidden and that there may be a displacement effect. We follow that very closely. At the moment we have no reason to suspect that anything will happen in this area in the short term, and Germany has not yet indicated to us that we have a danger to expect. That information is on a permanent basis and we are following it closely.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-21-54-plenair-ip047x.u56	Mr President, Minister, I will certainly test how far it is from Brasschaat to Ravels, including my bike. Perhaps we should go further, perhaps we in this House should consider whether there is a legal framework for giving additional resources, financial but also legal, to the various mayors, in order to prevent this. The mayor is faced with such gangs, who settle on the territory of his municipality, and he may take a number of measures in the context of general law enforcement, but often lacks a legal framework. Perhaps we should think together and find solutions. Minister, you referred to the European circumstances and situation, that it is, above all, something European. There is no point in certain countries in Europe having legal means of banning certain motor gangs while others do not have them, because they will have a displacement effect. Perhaps it should be placed on the European agenda for some time, because I am really afraid that we will find ourselves in difficulties. I refer, by the way, to South Limburg, where a mayor is currently forced to hide after threats from a motorcycle gang, namely in Kerkrade. Kerkrade is near Maasmechelen, I know that region better. We must remain very vigilant and look at a legislative framework.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-21-54-plenair-ip047x.u57	Mr President, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, if I am well informed, the Council of Ministers, on your initiative, decided this morning to reduce the list of partner countries for our cooperation. Let me tell you right away that I think it's a bad decision. Reducing our cooperation partners to 14 countries is not in the right direction. It is a sign of our country's loss of influence and ambition in the crucial area of the fight against poverty, against hunger in the world, for the environment, for the climate, for good governance. In about 15 years, we have moved from a little over 50 countries (that was far too much, I agree) to 25 countries 10 years ago, then to 18 countries, then to 14 countries today. What is more, we put, if I may say so, all our eggs in the same basket, since today we are only in Africa. What message do we send to Asia, Latin America in relation to these fundamental issues? Last point, before I ask you my questions. It is as if we had not at all taken into account the totally degraded environment on the margins of Europe. We know that there are wars, migratory flows, men and women fighting against obscurantism, for their freedom, for stability. Our cooperation has remained on the bench. It has not evolved at all, it has not adapted at all to this new fundamental issue on the margins of Europe. Minister, what are the criteria on the basis of which you have decided to reduce this, what can be called a scrapping of our cooperation, our influence and our ambition in the world?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-21-54-plenair-ip047x.u58	Minister, you have today taken one of the most important decisions of recent years on development cooperation, namely the revision of the number of countries and the countries tout court with which we are doing development cooperation. I can understand the exercise of concentration and less fragmentation in the resources we use in developing countries. It opens doors and may have more impact to tackle the poverty that still exists in large parts of the world. However, I would ask you to communicate very clearly to Parliament the objective criteria on the basis of which you came to the new list. Let us not be naive. In the past, this list has often been the subject of political games. One group had a preference for Vietnam, the other necessarily wanted Morocco as a partner country, which is still the case today. However, Morocco is not a fragile state and does not belong to the least developed countries, but that debate must continue in committee. Do you realise that you will have to take into account that there will be failures in our development cooperation if you engage in the movement towards greater development cooperation in fragile states and the least developed countries? You will also have to explain this to the public, who is ready to prove that development cooperation would be of little use. Yesterday we paid a working visit to the BTC, our agency for development cooperation. It is very clear that we have an important impact on health care and poverty reduction in many countries. Fragile states are creating more risk and perhaps more failures, but I would like to ask you, as the competent minister, to continue to defend development cooperation, even in those circumstances. There is something else that worries me very much, Minister. I read in your communication today that you do not see the concentration exercise separately from the savings in development cooperation. These savings are scandalous, ladies and gentlemen. I don't use that word much, but I'd like to do it here. In a period of five years, by 2019, you, Minister, together with the entire N-VA government, will save EUR 1 billion in development cooperation. Good development cooperation is also in our own interest, which means less migration and less climate change. So, Minister, I would ask you to clarify this. If you have the current budget for 18 countries, what will happen to the budget that will serve 14 countries? I want you to say here today that the budget for 14 countries remains at the same level as what is needed for 18 countries, so more concentration and more impact. If you save further you will have less impact. I didn't think that was what you wanted.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-21-54-plenair-ip047x.u59	Thank you for these questions. Mr Dallemagne, you are certainly one of those in this Parliament who knows this issue best. You have worked for the Belgian Technical Cooperation (CTB) in Cambodia, if I am not mistaken. I respect your analysis, but mine is different. We are currently seeing enormous convergence happening around the world. This convergence takes place mainly in the countries known as middle-income countries; that is where progress is greatest. This is due to the fact that other financial flows go to these countries. Remittances, direct investment and trade are on the rise. That's a good thing. Unfortunately, there are some 40 countries, which are the least developed countries, in which the needs are enormous and the means have diminished. Looking at last year's figures from the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), the least developed countries saw a 16 per cent reduction in their resources. In sub-Saharan Africa, this is a 5% decrease. Belgium, on the other hand, runs counter to this trend. The OECD congratulates us on this: we have made a clear choice to concentrate our resources for countries with the greatest needs. Today we are going to countries where other donor countries are leaving. You are telling me that we are closing our eyes to migration problems. I don't think so. As for what is happening in the Mediterranean Sea, a large part of the refugees or people who are part of these flows come from the South of the Sahel. We are working with Mali and Niger; we will work with Burkina Faso. We have chosen to work in these countries to give a future to a population that unfortunately uses migration. What are our criteria? The law lays down five basic criteria: the degree of poverty and inequality, the comparative advantage of Belgian cooperation, the effort made by the country itself in socio-economic development, good governance and human rights, and the relative importance of Belgian cooperation in these countries. I respond to your question, Mr De Vriendt. The criteria we have used are from the law. A proposal was made by the Development Cooperation DG in January. It is based on the law and on public sources, such as the United Nations, the World Bank, the IMF, the OECD. There are many publications on the definition of least developed countries and fragile states. We have also looked at the Human Development Index, prepared by UNDP. We are also looking at the dependence on aid. All this is based on scientific studies and studies of respected multilateral organisations. I want to be very clear. Belgian development cooperation has so far been much too crumpled. We were active in many countries. If you lay crumbs in many countries, you will ultimately have no impact. We are making a very clear choice. We make a choice for fourteen countries, where the need is highest and we can have a lot of impact based on our experiences. There hasn't been a marchand day before. It's very clear. Eleven of the 14 countries are least developed countries. Budgetaryly, I have to work within the current context. So I want to be able to work more efficiently. I am convinced that the exercise will prove in the long term that one can have more impact by working more focused. The impact has been there since 2017, because I have chosen a period of stability. The way in which the various instruments of Belgian development cooperation are distributed remains to be seen. This is part of the negotiation that will take place. At the very least, in bilateral aid today, I have taken the right steps to have modern development cooperation that will have more effect in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-21-54-plenair-ip047x.u60	Thank you, Minister, although your answer was far too long.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-21-54-plenair-ip047x.u61	Mr Deputy Prime Minister, what I do not dispute is the concentration of a series of financial resources on a number of priority countries. Indeed, the least developed countries needed significant financial resources. However, everyone also sees the extremely modest record of cooperation. Even in these countries, it is important to have a fundamental reflection on our cooperation strategy. What I am contesting, on the other hand, is the reduction of our cooperation on this issue alone. Today, the world has changed, there are new actors and new challenges. They concern us directly. Our people have understood this well and are calling for action not only through our national defence, not only by sending Godetia to the Mediterranean, but by helping countries like Tunisia, which, against all expectations, is still not part of the countries of concentration, while it is at the forefront and is fighting for democracy, freedom, stability and social progress. This is the kind of country we should have helped. Mr Minister, if we do not carry out a fundamental strategic reflection to make cooperation a flexible, modern instrument adapted to the new challenges, we will see what you are busy doing, that is, an extra blow with appropriations that are in sharp decline compared to cooperation and – we see it within a generation – the death of international cooperation. That is what we are witnessing today and I deeply regret it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-21-54-plenair-ip047x.u62	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply. I've taken note of everything you've said. We support the effort being made for fragile states, the least developed countries. However, I have a strong suspicion that this is a hidden saving exercise. You also indicated this in your own communication. Today, you said once again that we need to operate in a saving context. It is good to reduce the number of partner countries from 18 to 14 and then propose this as an efficiency exercise, but actually this is simply a reduction in resources for our bilateral development cooperation. I have given you the opportunity to deny this here once and for all, but you have not grasped that opportunity. We therefore have a strong suspicion that the savings will prevail over efficiency. As far as human rights are concerned, I hope that you will make it clear in the choice of partner countries that we will not give direct support through development cooperation to governments that violate human rights. In such cases, we must reorient our aid and go directly to the population through local NGOs and local partners. At such a moment, we must stay away from corrupt governments that violate human rights. I hope that you will take this commitment to heart.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-21-54-plenair-ip047x.u63	Mr President, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, the press recently reported to us the seizure by the NML fund, a known vulture fund, of the accounts of the Embassy of Argentina located in Brussels. I would like to point out that this freeze on the accounts was served on the day after a bill was presented to the press to combat these vulture funds in Belgium, a bill which, I would remind you, was co-signed by all the democratic political groups of our assembly, which, it must be stressed, is an excellent thing. [[Applause]] Thank you, Mr. Laaouej. This initiative is obviously a parliamentary initiative, but it is nevertheless fully in line with the will of our government and the MR to fight for fairer and more ethical financing, both at Belgian and international level. This attack demonstrates, if necessary, the objective reality of this problem in our territory and obviously reinforces the idea that it is fundamental to tackle this threat head on. The problem of freezing such accounts also refers to the inviolability of assets protected by diplomatic immunity. In this connection, a United Nations convention pending ratification provides for a strengthening of the immunity of the property of embassies which are precisely used for their operation. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, can you inform us of the content of your contacts with the Argentine diplomats on this issue and of the support you can give them? Can you also explain to us a little more in detail the content of the United Nations Convention and, as such, tell us what is the state of play of the ratification process by Belgium and your position in this regard?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-21-54-plenair-ip047x.u64	Mr President, Mrs Wilmès, I will give you three points of answer. Let us go first to the facts. To do so, I will take this document back. This is a provisional arrest of funds belonging to Argentina, but which are obviously in the hands of third parties, in the case of the banks which are the third parties seized. This seizure is not carried out on the basis of a Belgian court decision, but by a mere exploit of a judicial officer carried out by the latter at the request of the lawyers of a company established in the Cayman Islands, in accordance with a final foreign judgment rendered by the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York. It is therefore, at this stage, a precautionary and non-binding measure. We obviously contacted the services of the Argentine Embassy in Brussels to try to assist them in this situation. The Embassy may request that the seizure be lifted before the judge on the basis of the immunity conferred by the Vienna Convention for the funds allocated for the operation of an embassy. It knows the procedure, since it is not the first time that it has been confronted with an attempt to seize by a vulture fund. As far as its functioning is concerned, I assure you: the consequences are limited. Only the bank accounts of the bilateral embassy were seized, not those of the Permanent Representation to the European Union. I welcome, and this is my second point, the work under way to try to fight against these vulture funds. I would like to draw your attention to the need to ensure, of course, that all legal precautions are taken to ensure that measures are effective if judicial proceedings are to take place. Finally, the United Nations Convention on Jurisdictional Immunities of States and Their Property codifies customary rules. In principle, immunity from jurisdiction implies that a State cannot be tried abroad without its express consent. However, exceptions exist, particularly in terms of labour law. The consequence of immunity from enforcement is that no form of coercion - seizure, arrest or seizure - may be exercised against the property of a State assigned to the functions of authority. Article 21 of the Convention specifically covers the property and accounts of embassies. Belgium signed the Convention on 22 April 2005. Since then, discussions have taken place to try to see the precise modalities of implementation. On December 19, I conferred it with the Minister of Justice. I have noted that we are in the process of finalizing the explanatory memorandum for the text which should be submitted to you in order to move towards ratification.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-21-54-plenair-ip047x.u65	Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, thank you. First of all, I would like to express my satisfaction at hearing that you are in frequent contact with the Embassy of Argentina. As I said, even if the recent attack on this vulture fund – whether conservatory or enforceable – has little impact on the problem as a whole at international level, it must be taken for what it is, namely an attack. The ratification by Belgium of this Convention seems to me to be a step in the right direction, in the same way as the vote, in the near future, of this bill which will not regulate everything but which will give a strong signal to these funds.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-21-54-plenair-ip047x.u66	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, a few weeks ago I asked you about the poor working conditions of prison officers in Mons prison. Yesterday, I exercised my right of visit as a parliamentarian in this institution. I went to Mons prison to see the situation on the ground. She's not a folichonne. In Mons, there are now 400 prisoners for 300 places. I saw yesterday a cell of 10m2, where there were four inmates, about 2m2 per inmate. Overcrowding in this facility creates tension among inmates, which inevitably affects the guards who are in direct contact with them, especially since the number of guards in Mons is insufficient. About 15 guards are missing from the planned framework. The latter work in poor conditions, which leads to health problems. Yesterday, during my visit, I noticed the absence of more than 30 guards because of illness. Of course, this is not a specific problem in Mons prison, but it is in this prison that the problem is most acute. This is where the ratio between the number of officers and detainees is lowest. It is 51 per cent, while in other Kingdom prisons it is 80 per cent. To this overpopulation is also the problem of the old building. It is a very old and very degraded building. It dates back to the 1880s. Work is therefore needed. In addition, the safety systems are defective. When I visited the prison, I noticed a control screen, where there were 20 black cells corresponding to 20 failed surveillance cameras, which obviously could pose problems for surveillance. In this context, imposing, as your government does, linear savings, in the same way for all institutions, is irrational. In March, you told me about the existence of a specific working group to study the consequences of economic measures on Mons prison. Do you have any results from this working group? Do you intend to plan for additional agent commitments? If so, when and how much? Do you intend to take measures to combat prison overcrowding? Finally, do you intend to provide the facility with the means to carry out the necessary work and repair defective safety systems?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-21-54-plenair-ip047x.u67	Mr Thiébaut, I do not have a precise answer to all your questions, but as I expected some of them because you have already asked them in committee, I answer as far as possible. In terms of staffing, the Mons framework, in the 2014 staff plan, was 232 full-time equivalents (FTEs). The current working environment is 221.7 FTEs, comprising 253 people. The deficit is therefore 10.3 FTEs. For example, Ittre Prison is at - 13,15 FTE, Tournai Prison at - 9,15 FTE. The objective of the work to rationalize the current posts is to develop alternative working methods to operate the prisons with the available staff. With regard to overcrowding, statistical data confirm a continuing decline in the overall prison population over time, particularly since the last quarter of 2014. The Mons prison fits into this pattern in a slower but progressive way. At the beginning of December 2014, there were still 420 detainees for 307 places. Yesterday, there were 395 detainees in Mons. This clearly demonstrates this development. The opening of a third wing at Leuze prison, which has been in progress since 11 May 2015, and the opening of the fourth and final wing in the last quarter of 2015, i.e. a total of 150 additional places of accommodation, are opportunities to transfer convicts offered to the management of Mons prison. A screening of the population of convicts detained in Mons will be carried out by the regional management with a view to these transfers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-21-54-plenair-ip047x.u68	Minister, thank you for that clarification. Of course, measures are being taken but, in my view, they are insufficient and the work is too slow to deal with the problems encountered. We need to speed things up, minister. Otherwise, I very much fear that in the weeks and months to come you, like your predecessors, will face major strike movements in our prisons.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-21-54-plenair-ip047x.u69	Mr Minister, I escaped very well this morning because I almost addressed this question to Mrs Sleurs, an hour before I knew that she was losing her competence in the fight against tax fraud! The Prime Minister's party says, even if it does not fully announce the colour, that the tax shift will specifically target fraudsters, but I have the impression that this government is doing the opposite. This government promotes fraud! When I hear the investigating judge Michel Claise, who recently spoke on television, this reinforces me in this idea since he is very critical of the government's policy in its fight against financial crime. He noted, for example, that the government was tackling the unemployed rather than the fraud committed by those who had a lot of money. He pointed in particular to the abolition of a centralised OECDFO, which, he said, would enable fraud to be revived. I am thinking, for example, of VAT carousels which had been reduced to EUR 20 million, whereas at one time they were talking about EUR 1 billion. He feared that this decision would raise the level of VAT carousel fraud to around EUR 1 billion. In addition, this fits in with a whole series of measures, including your own Justice Plan, which goes a bit in the same direction. Indeed, it states that it is a matter of abolishing criminal sanctions in respect of tax fraud and financial crime. So you tell the big fraudsters, the diamond dealers involved in the HSBC and others case, that they can fraud since they are no longer in prison. In the worst case, they risk a small tax correction! I think this is a bad signal in the fight against fraud. I could still give you a lot of examples, but Mr. President will not let me do that; I would have two hours or even two days to draw up the whole list. Minister, if, as the Prime Minister's party says, the tax shift will focus on the fight against fraudsters, what steps will you take to turn 180 degrees away from being the government of fraudsters?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-21-54-plenair-ip047x.u70	Mr. Claise, I'm sorry, Mr. Van Hees, it's a lapsus linguae! (...): You could have been called M. Sleurs!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-21-54-plenair-ip047x.u71	Why not? Mr Van Hees, I did not expect this question. You said you'd question me about what Mr. Claise said. I therefore expected you to ask me about the expansion of the mini-investigation and the possibility for the prosecution to request only the search, for example, of the investigating judge. I would have replied briefly that the expansion of the mini-trial does not mean that the investigating judge cannot raise the case. Even if mini-instruction is extended, for example, to wiretapping or search, it will in any case always have the ability, once the measure has been granted, to refer to the investigation and to conduct it itself. I therefore have no intention, as Mr Claise says, of turning the investigating judge into a small hand or a simple mailbox because the mailboxes do not have the power to decide sovereignly to keep or return the letters entrusted to them. It seemed important to me to clarify that. For my part, I never said that tax evasion would no longer be criminalized. I have said and I repeat, as far as necessary, that we should determine what kind of behaviour is still to be penalised. You're going back to a passage that Mr. Vanvelthoven has already quoted. So you're going back to an old question. It's very good, even if there's no point in repeating yourself. I'm still doing it for you. The only thing I said was that we need to strengthen the "una via" procedure. Meanwhile, I did it with Mrs. Sleurs and Mr. Van Overtveldt, i.e. that at the beginning of the investigation, it is necessary to decide between the tax authorities and the public prosecutor whether or not to pursue the administrative trail or the criminal trail. These two bodies take this decision themselves. I have no intention of making fraud serious, serious, and not punishable. On the contrary! I can only repeat it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-21-54-plenair-ip047x.u72	Minister, thank you. Perhaps the title of the question was not clear enough. There could be a reform of the title of oral questions in plenary. However, I would like to ask you in particular about the whole policy of your government, including your own Justice Plan. You are telling me that there is no question of automatically abolishing criminal sanctions for all fraudsters. I'm glad. But if I align this statement with the government's policy as a whole, including issues such as the criminal transaction, which dates from the previous government, I think we do have a problem with this government as a whole. We also have a conflict of interest issue about you, in particular, compared to your former duties in the law firm you were managing. As Minister of Finance in the former government and as Minister of Justice in it, you do not give us any signs of this conflict of interest.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-21-54-plenair-ip047x.u73	Mr Minister, access to justice is a fundamental right. This is stated in Article 23 of the Constitution. The same goes, of course, for those who cannot finance it themselves. For this there is the second-line assistance or pro bono in popular terms. The legal profession is now very concerned about the payment of the pro-Deo allowance. That fee shall be calculated on the basis of points per service provided. The fixed budget for legal assistance is committed annually in advance by the Justice Department. The value of the point is therefore variable and depends on the number of cases closed at the end of the judicial year. To give an indication, for the year 2012-2013 it was 23.53 euros. This is traditionally brought to 25 or 26 euros. On the basis of the Protocol of 12 January 2010, the then government undertook to raise that point value to EUR 26.91 in the short term. What do we now see in practice? According to the information we currently have, the point for the 2013-2014 judicial year would be about EUR 24, which is EUR 2 to EUR 3 less than what was envisaged. The lawyers are paid late for their pro-Deo assistance anyway. We know that the performance for the second half of 2013 still has to be paid out. The N-VA Group stresses, first of all, that lawyers must, of course, be properly compensated for the benefits they provide. That's obvious. Secondly, if justice is to demotivate lawyers in this way, we will have to fear in the longer term a lack of legal protection for the socially weak in our society. Minister, is our concern justified? If so, what commitment do you intend to make to take that road?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-21-54-plenair-ip047x.u74	Mrs Uyttersprot, after the reference made by your predecessor, Mr Van Hees, to my past as a lawyer, you will not be surprised that I am the last person to demotivate the lawyers. It is true that a protocol was concluded in 2010 stating that the Minister of Justice has the will to maintain the value of the point at the current level and, if possible, to increase it. It is also true that last year's point value stood at EUR 25.76. For lawyers' fees this year, for the period we are discussing, an additional amount of EUR 2 978 000 is needed to keep the point value at EUR 25.76. If we do not have the EUR 2 978 000, the point value will fall by EUR 1 to EUR 24.76. So we are talking about 1 euro difference. I requested that amount of EUR 2 978 000 in the framework of the April budgetary control. I have not yet received that from my fellow Members. This means that I will ask that again at the next budgetary control. In addition, I would very much like to commit myself to ensuring, if I do not get it, that I do not yet have the opportunity to do a small re-allocation within my own budget at the end of the year, so that I can find that small EUR 3 million to pay out the additional point value of EUR 1. That would mean that payments would be made provisionally on the basis of a point value of EUR 24.76 in May and that I would pay the 1 euro later.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-21-54-plenair-ip047x.u75	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I understand, however, that the EUR 2.9 million effort you have to make is a great effort. Our N-VA Group already has a proposal on the table aimed at setting up the second-line assistance fund, a fund similar to the Fund to help victims of deliberate acts of violence. The aim of this proposal is to ensure that convicts also put their money into the bag and increase the money that can help keep the pro bono workable. The Court of Auditors calculated the financial impact of that proposal. It would amount to EUR 14 million, which is a fine amount and well beyond the effort that is now being sought. I therefore hope that the proposal will inspire you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-21-54-plenair-ip047x.u76	Colleagues, we congratulate Goede Uyttersprot on her maiden speech. [[Applause]] .)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-21-54-plenair-ip047x.u77	Mr President, Minister, I think we can say that supplementary pensions are basically the magic formula of this N-VA government to save our pension system. Moreover, supplementary pensions have also been the excuse to undermine the statutory pension in our country. The government has decided to abolish the pension bonus and to stop indexing most of the pensions. However, your supplementary pension system is not working. New figures from the supervisory board and from the database of all supplementary pensions show that supplementary pensions are actually only a lean animal per pensioner. The individual, every older person in our country, should have a serious supplementary pension, but apparently that is not the case. On average, this would be a reserve of EUR 8 890 per member of supplementary pensions, but this will not go far. This is not difficult to understand, because the employees of a supplementary pension fund pay on average only 1% of their wages. Minister, what will your answer be? Will you say again, as always, that it is up to the social partners to study the system? Will you claim that the supplementary pension system needs more time? However, all the previous governments have said the same. Or will you say, I fear, that it is up to employees to pay more than 1% of their wages for supplementary pensions, for example, up to 3%? That would be a very easy message because of the government, because we are living in a period of crisis and everyone, every working person, is having a hard time. Minister, we expect you to recognise some of your mistakes and to re-dedicate yourself fully to a strong statutory pension. You are laughing, Minister, but the legal pension is still the pension that benefits everyone, whether the pensioner is a member of a supplementary pension or not. The statutory pension is a fair and fair system, depending on the income and the number of years worked. Moreover, a statutory pension system also leaves much less money to the insurance sector, which is involved in supplementary pensions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-21-54-plenair-ip047x.u78	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, yesterday a very interesting speech was made by Professor Vandenbroucke in the Committee on Social Affairs, followed by a debate on the future of our pensions. It is a pity that your group was not represented there, Mr De Vriendt. One of the most important findings of Professor Vandenbroucke is that the efforts we are making with regard to supplementary pensions are too modest. On the famous blue line, Belgium is in the middle, while Denmark, for example,'s efforts in the field of supplementary pensions are much higher than in our country. The number of people covered by a supplementary pension is quite large here, 2.6 million people, but the amount is modest, namely EUR 60 per month for those who receive that pension for 20 years. The intention must, of course, be to improve this score. That's obvious. That is why the government agreement is very ambitious and provides for three important measures in the area of supplementary pensions. Firstly, the government wants to ensure that certain sectors that do not have a supplementary pension today can get it. These include, for example, contractual officials and individual self-employed workers. Secondly, the government wants to give employees the possibility of converting part of their wages, as a free choice, into a supplementary pension. By the way, Minister De Block launched this proposal as a backbencher at the time. Thirdly, the government calls on the social partners to use part of the wage increase to build up the supplementary pension. In short, this is an ambitious coalition agreement. I therefore have two questions for you, Minister. Firstly, what is the timing for implementing the measures of the coalition agreement? It is true that we still have a long way to go. Secondly, you place an important responsibility on the social partners, in that you say that you must make a contribution up to 3% of the wage mass. However, if we make this entirely dependent on the social partners, and if they do not take the necessary steps, are you prepared to take initiatives so that in the long term everyone can have a good legal and a good supplementary pension?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-21-54-plenair-ip047x.u79	Mr President, the figures of the FSMA and Sigedis clearly confirm a double determination of supplementary pensions. On the one hand, the number of employees covered by a supplementary pension has increased. On the other hand, employees do not benefit from a supplementary pension in all sectors. For those who benefit from a sectoral pension plan, the amounts are not always sufficient. However, this finding may be somewhat nuanced. These figures can be explained because the second pillar does not exist for long in Belgium. For example, certain sectoral pension plans were introduced only a few years ago. These have not yet reached full maturity. Moreover, the law which gradually abolishes the difference in treatment of workers and servants in the field of supplementary pensions should pave the way for the generalization of supplementary pensions. My objective is to continue the efforts to ensure that most and even all workers build up a supplementary pension. I will take steps to ensure that this supplementary pension is an important complement to the statutory pension. I will propose measures to achieve this objectively during the second half of the year. In addition, I will propose that the legal framework be adapted to encourage administrations and public undertakings to provide a supplementary pension for contractual persons. I would also like to make it possible for wage-earners to build up a supplementary pension on the basis of a deduction from wages by the employer. Finally, I will invite the social partners to retain a percentage of wage increases after negotiations as contributions to supplementary pension plans. In this way, a contribution level of at least 3% can be achieved in any sector in the long term. Finally, I would like to draw your attention to an important dossier, in particular the issue of guaranteed returns. The National Labour Council will look into this, the discussions are currently under way.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-21-54-plenair-ip047x.u80	I want to thank you for your answer, Minister. You say you will make efforts to make more people benefit from such supplementary pensions. However, what difference does it make that more people are eligible for a supplementary pension if the return, which they actually get, is so low? You say that this has to do with the 1 % monthly average contribution of the wage and you will ask the social partners to raise it. Minister, when will this N-VA government itself launch a full pension? You pass on a great deal to the social partners: the guarantee of return, as well as the question of the heavy professions, must be solved. It is not bad, of course, to allow social dialogue to take place, but I do miss the direction and direction of the government, and it is taking far too long. The elderly among us, the pensioners, want security about their pensions. That is not what this government can give, except for cutting the statutory pension, because that happens very quickly, that is very clear, no pension bonus, no indexation. The compensations that should follow, they won't come, we don't see them.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-21-54-plenair-ip047x.u81	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. A good pension is a four-legged seat: a good legal pension, individual pension savings, having your own home and the supplementary pension you talked about. I would just like to say a few words to Mr van Groen. It is the first time that I have noticed that they are not very patient and do not want to give the social partners too many opportunities. I heard a different story from their group once. What is the reality, ladies and gentlemen? In a few months' time, this Minister has managed to take steps to make this possible with regard to the long-term legal pension that we need to retain. Soon there will be draft laws to further ensure this. What I haven't heard from Green is the magic formula. It must not come from people's wages, it must all go through the statutory pension, but the question is who will pay it all. That's the big question. Only those countries which combine a statutory pension, which is insured, with a supplementary pension, such as our country, will benefit. That is the model that our country will follow, thanks to you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-21-54-plenair-ip047x.u82	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, a little over ten years ago, Belgian cinema master André Delvaux, in a television debate at RTBF, launched a "chiche" for me, in my capacity as Minister of Culture of the Wallonia-Brussels Federation, on the implementation of the tax shelter. We were able to complete this project thanks to your predecessor, Mr. Reynders. The system was therefore able to generate a great deal of additional resources for film creation both in the North and in the South of the country. As a result, the effects became known very quickly. The tax shelter has made it possible to provide new means, which have come in addition to the usual mechanisms of subsidization. In eight years of existence, it has generated some 500 million euros of investment. It has also contributed to the recognition of Belgian cinema on the world stage since, thanks to this device, films with international stars could be shot in our country. So its first version was an important success, as you know, but a lot of abuse has been found. In order to prevent them, the law has been amended. However, the new provisions seem to have some start-up problems, particularly in terms of ruling. According to my information, this measure would run counter to the European audiovisual financing system. In addition, there would be a difficulty in the precise definition of eligible indirect expenditure. The sector is worried. It is all the more understandable that the Cannes Film Festival is a privileged place to negotiate new productions. Projects may be abandoned or, at the very least, run out of breath. I have no doubt for a moment, minister, of your willingness to answer these questions. I will conclude, Mr President, by recalling, with reference to this absolutely magnificent art of cinema, this sentence by André Malraux, who closed his book Esquisse d'une psychologique du cinéma published in 1946: "On the other hand, cinema is also an industry." For a government that wants to support economic activity in all areas, supporting the cultural industry of cinema is an essential mission.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-21-54-plenair-ip047x.u83	Mr President, my colleague, it is true that in recent months many practical questions have been asked about the new rules on the tax shelter introduced under the previous government by the law of 12 May 2014 and of application since 1 January this year. The new regulation should allow the audiovisual sector to obtain investments in a more transparent way and is aimed at combating certain abuses that have been observed in the old tax shelter scheme. In recent months, there has been intense consultation between my firm and the relevant departments of my administration, namely the tax shelter specialist unit, the central services and the Anticipated Decisions Service. As part of this consultation, an administrative working group was set up to seek an administrative solution to the problems identified. At the same time, consultations were held between the Communities and the sector. In this context, several observations were made on the practical application of the amended legislation. Yesterday, 20 May, a new consultation took place within the administrative working group. The latter took note of the comments made by the sector and by the Communities. He will be satisfied as much as possible. I have instructed my administration to publish a FAQ based on the conclusions reached by the working group. This FAQ is intended to address current issues.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-21-54-plenair-ip047x.u84	Mr Minister, thank you for your reply and for your attention to consultation with the Communities which have responsibility for cultural policies in our country. It is important that this response be disseminated; indeed, it is precisely at a time when many projects are negotiating that directors need to know that they can count on the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-21-54-plenair-ip047x.u85	Minister, in the context of the welfare envelope, the social partners have asked the government to take a number of measures, including to increase the holiday allowance for retired disabled people. The government has taken that up. That is an excellent thing. It means that thanks to the increase the retired disabled get a decent holiday money so that they can really use that money to get away. It is therefore a good measure. The social partners have asked for a second case, namely that the government should ensure that the additional amount that people receive, EUR 160, would not be neutralized by the tax authorities. Your colleague Mrs De Block would seem to have warned you that this is coming. What do we see now? There appear to be a lot of files in which people who receive the EUR 160 extra have to pay more taxes than EUR 160. I guess this wasn't supposed to happen. It was supposed to be about a few thousand files. Can you provide a solution to this, Minister?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-21-54-plenair-ip047x.u86	Minister, my question is also about the welfare envelope of EUR 627 million. The aim is to reduce the prosperity gap between the minimum benefits and the disabled, the people with the lowest purchasing power. As Mr Vanvelthoven says, the measure could have a perverse effect: the EUR 168 extra holiday money that the people concerned would have to receive this month would be skimmed by the tax authorities because they would receive a higher income. That is absolutely not the intention, and it has not been agreed. The CD&V Group therefore calls for a social correction to be made as a matter of urgency. There are solutions to this. Disabled persons and people who are disabled for at least one year already have an increased minimum taxable amount. They have to tick a code on their tax bill for that. If that amount is raised, we can move forward with this. If we were to do so in a structural way so that the amount would evolve with the next wealth envelope, it would be a good solution. I have a second question. In September, minimum benefits will increase by 2%. It was agreed with the social partners that the border amounts would be adjusted. If the border amounts, which are based on granting additional rights, are not adjusted, then a few thousands of people risk losing hundreds of euros. They will lose their increased compensation if the border amounts do not evolve. I would therefore ask that this agreement with the social partners be respected and implemented. What will you do to resolve the matter and when will you do so, Minister?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-21-54-plenair-ip047x.u87	Ladies and gentlemen, let us not be silly. There may be a tax problem in relation to the increase in the holiday allowance for taxable persons receiving a pension or invalidity allowance, in particular for single taxable persons who, by increasing the holiday allowance, may fall within the scope of the additional tax reduction. This additional reduction reduces the personal income tax to the difference between the pension received and a reference income. For the 2000 tax year, that reference income has in principle been frozen on the reference income for the 2015 tax year, which is rounded up to EUR 15 500 for taxable persons who only receive a pension and EUR 17 250 for taxable persons who only receive statutory sickness and invalidity benefits. In these cases, the application of municipal and provincial incentives to the income tax due may indeed lead to a lower net income after tax than for the increase in holiday allowances. That can't be the intention. This problem is not new and has occurred in the past in the case of an increase in social benefits under the welfare envelope. It's not a simple matter. The administration, at my request, will examine as soon as possible the possible solutions to avoid the recurring problem in the future and to systematically eliminate it from that theme.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-21-54-plenair-ip047x.u88	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I can, of course, fully support your ambition. Soon we will be discussing a programme law and a law containing various provisions. It would be nice to have this problem dealt with at the same time, because it is indeed about something that was addressed to the people in May. If we want to move quickly, that is the ideal opportunity.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-21-54-plenair-ip047x.u89	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. It may not be easy, but it is difficult. Social corrections should effectively lead to corrections. That is also the agreement, especially for that group, with the social partners. Tax rules need to be adapted so that there is an effective increase in purchasing power for this vulnerable group. If we are talking about tax reductions for workers and employers, can it not be that this group would be taxed more than those who are not in such a fragile situation? For us, there really needs to be a correction so that the purchasing power of those people is effectively increased by the increase in the wealth envelope.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-21-54-plenair-ip047x.u90	Madam Secretary, I don't know if you know the satirical weekly "Pallieterke." I don't see you shaking, but I don't see you nodding either. Mr President, it is perhaps useful that we add that weekly to our press room, so that people from the French-speaking environment can get to know this interesting magazine. I call it an interesting magazine, because last week in Pallieterke there was a beautiful cartoon, depicted by Minister Peeters in Japan, whether or not covered by the N-VA on his mission. He's missing a train leaving on time. Madam Secretary, it's a tragicomistic fact. After all, we are so common that our trains leave later and are delayed, that at the moment we are only dealing with the means to compensate passengers for that reason. Is this about 15-minute delays? Is this about 20-minute delays? Is it about half-hour delays? Is it about an hour's delay? No, Madam Minister, we should in fact have the ambition to have our trains run on time again. However, you have taken the trouble to make your exercises. You want to satisfy the traveler. We want to give you a long way in this area. This morning, as always, I took the train and spoke to a number of train passengers. Half of them were behind your plan. Half believe that the administrative burden will be reduced. The other half was against your plan. It considered that short delays would no longer be compensated. Madam Secretary, we would like to know from you what your plan looks like in concrete terms. I realize that you may have had other cats flogged in the Council of Ministers this afternoon. You have, as we have heard in the margins, had to make a number of shifts of powers. What concrete decisions have you taken or what concrete decisions will you take with regard to compensation for delays to passengers in our SNCB?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-21-54-plenair-ip047x.u91	Mr President, Madam Minister, we have learned this week that it will take at least 30 minutes to be able to claim compensation, not 15 minutes. For commuters, this is obviously bad news, very unpleasant. We know that there are many delays. Up to 86,857 trains have been overdue since the beginning of January. So it's not anecdotal; 3,032 trains were over 30 minutes late. The commuters have reacted and Mr Tabbone, President of Shuttles.be, asks whether this is a simplification or whether this measure is being applied for the benefit of SNCB. It will in fact save SNCB EUR 1 million. To justify this weakening of the compensation mechanism, your firm would have replied that this change met European requirements. My questions are as follows. Could you tell us how this measure meets European requirements? What are these requirements to which your firm refers? Didn't you say on many occasions that your goal was to improve the timeliness of the railways? Will these measures not encourage SNCB to reduce punctuality requirements? Isn't it time to stop taking the travellers hostage? The introduction of the new transport plan is already causing a lot of inconvenience. Wasn't that enough?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-21-54-plenair-ip047x.u92	Madam Minister, if the press says the truth, which is often the case, you would have in your hands a proposal that seems unfriendly for commuters and travellers, as it tends to transform the rule. Today, the rule prevails for delays of fifteen and thirty minutes. According to the standard, it is unacceptable that, beyond fifteen minutes, too many trains are late. That sounds natural. The project that seems to be discussed sets this standard at thirty minutes, a subtly perverse norm in the sense that there is simplification. Today, to say that this is a delay, it had to be the same train, which had to be checked several times and over six months. The refund was 25% for 15 minutes and 50% for more than half an hour. Since I tabled this question, I have learned that, for technical reasons - there are many in the government - your proposal could not be considered. Is that really your proposal? Is this the proposal of SNCB, which becomes yours? Do you have any idea how much savings this will generate for SNCB, itself faced with savings that you impose? What is the signal given by your putative decision with regard to punctuality, in a context where the transport plan is such that, today, trains going to Brussels from Mons, Courtrai, Ostend and Termonde have a 70% peak hour rate, which is really disastrous? With regard to punctuality, the attractiveness of trains, I want to hear from you, and I still hope, Madam Minister, that this is not a proposal from the Minister of Mobility.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-21-54-plenair-ip047x.u93	Colleagues, in the framework of a royal decree of 21 December 2013 laying down the provisional rules which are valid as a management contract for SNCB and Infrabel, I am working on four cases, including a revision of the system of compensation for delays by SNCB, whose press has largely echoed yesterday on the basis of rumours. This revision meets several objectives, namely the simplification of the current compensation scheme, as requested by the representatives of SNCB customers. With regard to ensuring quality after-sales service, I believe that SNCB must be a customer-oriented business. If one of the priorities is punctuality, it is therefore normal to organise a after-sales service or compensation largely favourable to the customer in case of delay. This new system will have to remain among the most favourable for me at European level. Priority must be given to punctuality, but it is also essential to be able to provide, as far as possible, continuous service by avoiding transport interruptions which seriously penalize workers. The next strike announced will not improve punctuality. As regards compliance with European law, reference should be made to Regulation 1371/2007 on the rights and obligations of rail passengers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-21-54-plenair-ip047x.u94	Madam Secretary, you are a lady of good will. So I'm giving you the benefit of the doubt. I just hope that it is not just words, but that what you have just said also translates into deeds. Our ambition must remain to make the trains run on time. I hope that we will not be called fascist.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-21-54-plenair-ip047x.u95	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer, which I find relatively poor. We do not get any additional information and that is a great pity. This simplification is ultimately a pretext. What is the objective? The public service is not rendered at all; it is exclusively savings. In the 21st century, a 30-minute delay seems to the government to be negligible. You don't care about commuters! Trust was already not optimal, it will certainly not improve with such measures.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-21-54-plenair-ip047x.u96	Thank you for your answer, minister, but I do not consider it to be such. You tell us in chosen terms that we will remain the best students in Europe, but we were already. We were in a good legal situation, with a clear signal to the "client", as you say, either the users or commuters of SNCB. If the goal is really quality, the signal that will be given is bad. In fact, I understand your answer. You're probably moving towards a much more restrictive rule, which will be similar to the rumor that I suspect you've created. Finally, you often advocate consultation with users and commuters. It has been months since you announced in your statements the establishment of a national user committee. The transport plan has not been able to hear the leaders of these organisations, who are struggling valiantly to make the train more attractive, dynamic and solve mobility problems. You do not even consult them on such an important subject, which concerns masses of travellers! I urge you to avoid making this wrong decision next week and to postpone any decision to the next management contract. That is what this is all about: the years ahead will be played out with these kinds of measures.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-21-54-plenair-ip047x.u97	Mr. President, Minister, you have been a minister for several months now. Mr Cheron has just said that before, the rules were clear; today you are putting doubt. What is not changing is that commuters, rail users, suffer from constant delays, all the more difficult because they have a direct, concrete, daily influence for them. Yesterday, I stopped you on the Walloon dorsal. You have highlighted the difference in treatment between Wallonia and Flanders. The users of the Walloon dorsal are certainly among the most to complain about. One example: the Tournai-Herstal relationship obtained a punctuality figure of 58% in the direction of Herstal and 64% in the direction of Tournai, with the old calculation methods. Work that we can't see the end of. Punctuality in the dark. To this is added the imminence of the pure and simple suppression of the endowment for the Thalys Walloon. It can be clearly said that the users of the dorsal are really the ones left behind on the Belgian rail. And now you decide to change the rules on compensation in case of delay. You say no today, maybe tomorrow. This dossier is symptomatic of a certain way of doing things: a total lack of consultation; a truth systematically eluded in favour of a deliberately misleading vocabulary: "suspension of the service" instead of "deletion" for the Thalys, "simplification of the compensation procedure" for "deletion of compensation for the vast majority of delays". Minister, I invite you to change your method and return to more consultation. Users deserve much better than some contempt. You are doing nothing to restore their confidence in the railways, quite the contrary. Minister, do you, yes or no, remove the Thalys service for the Walloon dorsal? Do you remove, yes or no, compensation for two-thirds of the delays?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-21-54-plenair-ip047x.u98	Mr President, Mr Devin, my answer will be a summary of the response of 2 March 2015 to the plenary session, since the alternative solutions will be discussed after the approval of the modernisation plan, as has already been explained several times in committee. However, I would like to remind you that after the announced stop, on April 1, 2015, of the traffic of Thalys trains in the Namur area following the commissioning of the ERTMS by Infrabel, I wished to examine directly all the alternatives to the current high-speed services, as I had committed myself to it before you. This study mainly showed the very low occupancy of the two ridges, the very high cost to the taxpayer, the very high cost of the first alternatives examined as well as the absence of specific needs in Mons 2015. In the past, other suspensions have already taken place. At the time, this had generated very few complaints from clients, Thalys or elsewhere from your political parties, who were obviously in the management of these files at that time, cdH and PS to the government and minister responsible for the PS. I want to set clear priorities in terms of budget and good governance, respecting not only all clients but also the taxpayers who support these services. Each euro must be reflected and invested in order to carry out SNCB's public service mission.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-21-54-plenair-ip047x.u99	Minister, our findings are as clear as your certainty. There is indeed a lack of consultation with both rail users and trade unions that defend workers. There is no doubt that today you are frequently questioned about compensation for delays. Finally, it is a clear and clear certainty. There is a difference in treatment between the Walloon dorsal and the Flemish dorsal. Where Wallonia has been arrested, Flanders, Mr. President, can continue to roll!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-21-54-plenair-ip047x.u100	I have received an order motion from Mrs Karin Temmerman, chairman of the sp.a Group, saying: "In accordance with Rule 50 of our Rules of Procedure, the sp.a Group requests the presence of Secretary of State Elke Sleurs to find out what reasons a shift of powers was decided on, which means that she will no longer be responsible for the fight against tax fraud in the future." "In accordance with Rule 50 of our Rules of Procedure, the sp.a. group shall require the presence of the Secretary of State, Ms Elke Sleurs, to indicate the reasons for the change in attributions which will result in her being no longer competent in the future in the fight against tax evasion" [[.]] I take note of this motion. We'll present them to the Chamber later.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-21-54-plenair-ip047x.u101	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-21-54-plenair-ip047x.u102	Mr President, given the technical nature of the matter, I would like to refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-21-54-plenair-ip047x.u103	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, last week, on Tuesday, 12 May, I found myself faced with a serious dilemma: was I going to participate in the afternoon in the meeting of the Commission on the Economy with your colleague Mrs Marghem or in the meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure on the Rail Code? Not having the gift of ubiquitousness, I had to assume my duties as chair of the Economic Commission, which, as everyone knows, is living hot moments. This was a difficult choice. I felt like I had to choose between numbers and letters. I like the numbers, but I had to choose the letters. As far as the project itself is concerned, that has been said, it is quite technical. I have no problem with the general philosophy of the project: it is the transcription of European directives into Belgian law. As far as I know, this project had been largely started under the previous legislature. It is now coming to its conclusion. My question is more specific. It concerns vehicles of a heritage, museum and tourist character. This is a very specific question. As I did not have the opportunity to put it in committee last week, I have to come to the plenary now, which is not a problem in itself. In terms of railway tourist lines, Belgium took a long time to take an interest in this issue. For a very long time, unlike our neighbouring countries, our country had no interest in these issues of preservation of our heritage except for associations of volunteers who, from time to time, saved some quality material of historical value from the machine gun. Among the associations that circulate, two situations arise. There are associations, such as the ASBL Tourist Railway Heritage (PFT), which use the Infrabel lines and there are associations that run on clean roads. To date, the Rail Code has excluded heritage, historical and tourist vehicles operating on the national rail network. Tomorrow, this will no longer be the case, which causes the fear of many volunteers in these associations who work to preserve these unique heritages. The bill that is before the House for approval this afternoon goes back to this exemption and makes the full implementation of the provisions of the Rail Code mandatory, i.e. that it somehow equates a venerable steam locomotive with a most modern automotor. However, the Code does not apply to heritage railways, which have their own railway network - it is on this concept that I wanted to question you, Madam Minister - including workshops, vehicles and personnel operating solely on the said networks and lines. For historic railways, some of which operate on metric tracks, this is not a problem. The same is not true for those who use the "normal" rail tracks. In my region there is an important railway association: the Chemin de Fer des Trois-Vallées. It is important to ensure that the channels on which its users operate are well regarded as a private network within the meaning of the law, i.e. they are exempt. This confirmation is essential for these volunteers because of the work they have been doing for several decades. This also concerns the Maldegem Stoomtrein. I could give you other examples. The Chemin de Fer des Trois-Vallées does not circulate on a clean track, but on a disused SNCB line, according to an occupation agreement on a precarious basis. It must therefore assume all the obligations of the owner over the fourteen kilometres of line and is, of course, subject to the law on the safe operation of railway lines and therefore to many rules and controls of all kinds, relating to personnel, track maintenance, etc. – and that is quite normal – to ensure the safety of users. Standards, approvals and controls also include strict medical examinations. All this is in line with SNCB. However, a strengthening of standards and conditions should not make activity impossible and lead to a ban on the movement of this invaluable heritage, even though all measures have been taken and certified to ensure the safety of travellers. Minister, I come to the question that I would like to ask you in committee to calm the fears of these volunteers about the survival of their activity. Are the lines used by these associations considered to be a separate network, even if these are SNCB routes that have been decommissioned? Otherwise, this would be a problem. In any case, I will listen carefully to your answer. I also wanted to ask you whether you or your department have engaged in a dialogue with these associations on the content of this bill and on the issue I have just asked you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-21-54-plenair-ip047x.u104	Mr. Chairman, this is a bill that endorses the whole liberalisation process that was taken up in the first, second and third railway packages. This vote is a formal one, but I think we still need to raise the problems that this vote will pose at different levels. First, this process has the effect of favouring private management with private principles that contradict the logic of public services that for a long time dominated the railway, even though its history is made up of incessant passages between the private and the public. First of all, it poses a democratic problem. Less and less, the policy will decide on the future of rail transport. It will be replaced by a private logic, based on the search for profit. In my view, there is a confiscation of the stakes and democratic debate in this area. Secondly, this will lead and already lead to privatisation. It is already known, for example, that rail freight has recently been privatized since SNCB Logistics was sold for a bite of bread to private buyers. Twenty million euros, just by selling the company's 7,000 cars, we are already exceeding that amount. When we look at the fate of rail freight, we can ask ourselves the question of the future of the SNCB passenger. We know that this is the next step in the liberalisation process. On the other hand, I would like to raise the implications of this process in terms of personnel. Liberalisation, if we take the case of rail freight, has led to a reduction in staff of the order of 30 to 50% in countries such as Belgium, France and Germany, with other consequences on the quality of work since the number of contractors has increased sharply. They've lost their status. Alarming testimony was received from staff on the deterioration of working conditions, including the number of overtime hours not necessarily paid. There is also the aspect of the price. The idea, the fundamental mechanism of this project is to say that the company managing the infrastructure must do everything possible to reduce as much as possible the costs and prices that will be offered to the various railway companies operating on the network. Clearly, the infrastructure that will logically continue to be managed by the public will have to reduce costs and prices in order to offer more profit opportunities to both private and public companies that will use this network. We can already expect that, at the next stage, liberalisation of domestic passenger traffic will lead to a steady increase in prices. This is the case in the United Kingdom, where the price is set per kilometre and is two to three times higher than in other countries. This liberalisation process will also affect CO2 emissions. As a result, freight transport by rail will be further reduced to the benefit of freight transport by road. Taking the example of France, between 2000 and 2008, thanks to the liberalisation of freight, SNCF lost 40% of freight and 10% were taken over by private companies and three quarters of transport went from rail to road. Clearly, this process has an impact on prices, on workers but also on the environment. As far as security is concerned, this process leads to a reduction in security processes, as the cost reductions imposed on the infrastructure company will have an impact on the investment in security. Moreover, the increase in the number of operators on the network compared to a historical operator will obviously increase the risks, because when there are a multitude of operators on the same network, the risk is obviously increased especially since the text of the draft law provides for the possibility of using alternative sections. This will result in a significant increase in security risk. There are also ETCS automatic brake system equipment. In this project, it is written that private companies that will act on this network are encouraged to equip trains with ETCS systems. Since the accidents well known in the railway history of our country, we know that these systems are important, indispensable for road safety. However, they will not be mandatory for private companies. We're just going to encourage them to use them. We can already announce that this liberalisation process will have multiple consequences for travellers, the environment, workers and also for safety. Unfortunately, the accidents of Pécrot, Buizingen, etc., may not be the last of a list we would have hoped for.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-21-54-plenair-ip047x.u105	Thank you, Mr. Van Hees. Next time, if your intervention is as long as this one, you should do it from here. This will increase your chances of being listened to. I ask you all to listen to each other.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-21-54-plenair-ip047x.u106	Mr President, I will speak in my place because I will be very brief. In committee, our group abstained because we believe that Mr Borsus should have signed with us. I am pleased to note that Mr Borsus is here. That is why our group will vote in favour of this later.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-21-54-plenair-ip047x.u107	Mr President, I would like to speak from my bench as I am going to be particularly brief. I was in committee, we had a debate on this extremely technical text concerning the European directives of the third package, pending or not, of the fourth package. Here, it was a matter of transposing into the Rail Code such technical provisions that the tables were not always clear. The chairman of the commission was able to verify that simplicity was not at the meeting. I should like to point out that the real stakes concerning both the infrastructure and the system of operation of the railways and the European stakes justify, Madam Minister, that we pay particular attention to the development of the work on the fourth railway package. I take advantage of the debate on the Rail Code and this technical text to recall our vigilance regarding the development of rail, especially as it is conceived at European level, with a view to passenger transport which remains not only competitive, in the noble sense of the term, but above all in the direction of particular attention for commuters. Finally, on the issue raised by Mr Geerts, we learned in committee that if Mr Borsus was competent – it is a form of style, Mr Minister – for the verification of regulation, it is Mrs Galant who is responsible for the regulation legislation. Do I understand correctly? I believe that this is part of the subtleties of the distribution of competences within a government that is obviously concerned with a smooth and evolving division of competences among ministers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-21-54-plenair-ip047x.u108	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you. Mr Delizée, even if you could not participate in the proceedings, if you had read the report, part of your answer is on page 10; but I will give you an exhaustive answer. The Railway Code clearly excludes from its scope the heritage, museum and tourist railways which have their own railway network, including workshops, vehicles and personnel operating solely on such networks and lines. The bill amending the Rail Code, which was discussed in committee, therefore does not call into question this exclusion. All matters relating to these heritage railways are covered by the Act of 26 March 2014 on the safe operation of museum railway lines. This law applies to railway lines which are decommissioned but not dismantled from the railway infrastructure, the owner or holder of a right in rem on that railway line agrees to designate it as a tourist, heritage or museum. As a result, the Three Valleys Railway falls within the scope of the 2014 Act and is not subject to the provisions of the Railway Code. I hope you're reassured. As far as the reflections of Mr. Van Hees, we have already had this debate in committee. I would remind you that the current government has not changed anything in relation to the project on the table. It is simply a purely technical European directive aimed at giving the internal market an opportunity to develop. I would like to insist on the security process. When things work well in our Railways, things for which we can be proud, they must be highlighted. About safety, the ETCS system is one of the best performing in Europe and we can be proud of it! I would say to Mr Geerts - who is pleased with the presence of Minister Borsus - and to Mr Cheron that they can count on me as regards my willingness to do everything possible to have competitive rail transport. I confirm that I am responsible for the legislation and that Mr Borsus is responsible for its implementation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-21-54-plenair-ip047x.u109	Mr. Chair, I thank the various speakers for their comments. I would indeed like to confirm the reading which Mr Cheron has just summarized, but of course, when it comes to the application of legislation, listening to its definition and its adoption by Parliament is always useful, hence my presence and my availability.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-21-54-plenair-ip047x.u110	I just want to answer one point to the minister. I see and am pleased that she is proud of a system such as the ETCS braking system. If it is so satisfied with this system, I wonder why it does not make it mandatory for all private operators operating on the network.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-21-54-plenair-ip047x.u111	Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-21-54-plenair-ip047x.u112	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (984/3) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (984/3) The draft law contains 89 articles and 5 annexes. The bill has 89 articles and 5 annexes. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-21-54-plenair-ip047x.u113	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-21-54-plenair-ip047x.u114	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-21-54-plenair-ip047x.u115	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will report briefly and, for the rest, I refer to the written report. The present bill regulates the social elections that will take place in our country in May 2016. A novelty is that this is regulated in one design, where it was previously regulated in several pieces. The draft was tabled well in time, knowing that the social elections will not take place until next year. The procedure is based on an agreement between the social partners, as we were informed by the Minister for Employment. The procedure is very similar to that of 2012, the previous social elections. The limits for the organisation of social elections remain at the same thresholds: 50 for the Committee on Prevention and Protection at Work and 100 for a works council. This gave rise to some animosity in committee between members who wish to maintain the thresholds definitively and those who believe that the thresholds should be set at 50 in any case. There was some criticism of the social partners' agreement on gender, the list voice and the fact that the three representative organisations could submit lists. That criticism was discussed in committee. For the rest, I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-21-54-plenair-ip047x.u116	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the next social elections in our companies will take place from 9 to 22 May 2016. These elections, which take place every four years, are an important democratic moment, since they allow workers to elect their representatives to the works councils and the committees for prevention and protection at work (CPPT). Currently, they cover more than 3,500 companies for the election of business councils and more than 6,800 companies for the CPPTs. The election of works councils is governed by the law of 20 September 1948, while the institution of the CPPT is governed by the law of 4 August 1996. Both laws require enforcement measures that have traditionally taken the form of a royal decree. However, in the social elections of 2008 and 2012, it was the legal path that was chosen to implement these two laws because the government was in day-to-day business. Since the legal provisions adopted concerned matters covered by both article 77 and article 78 of the Constitution, it was necessary to draft two separate laws: the Act of 4 December 2007 and the Act of 4 December 2007 on judicial remedies. In view of the 2016 elections, there is now a need to adapt these laws in the light of two new elements. On the one hand, there is the sixth reform of the State which has substantially changed the legislative procedure. On the other hand, in preparation for the 2016 social elections, the social partners meeting at the National Labour Council (NCT) were asked to evaluate the existing regulations. This assessment led to the adoption by the CNT of Opinions Nos. 1883 and 1919 containing proposals to adapt the procedure. Considering these two developments and the experience of organizing previous social elections, the draft law, first, consolidates the two laws of 4 December 2007 into one. Second, it incorporates into this law provisions that were previously governed by two royal decrees. Thirdly, it simplifies and modernises the electoral procedure by following the unanimous recommendations of the social partners. Fourthly, it adapts the eligibility conditions of candidates for the social elections of the works councils, in order to make them equivalent to what prevails at the level of the committees for prevention and protection at work. Fifthly, it maintains for the social elections of 2016, the threshold for the institution of corporate councils to 100 workers. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the MR Group, I can only welcome this bill, which I would like to highlight three aspects in particular. First of all, I want to highlight the minister's effort to bring this bill before us quickly, so that the social elections can be properly prepared. Secondly, I would like to commend the work done to centralise all the provisions on social elections into a single text, thus making the legislation clearer and more legible. I am also pleased that the Minister took the opportunity to simplify and modernize the procedure. Finally, and as provided for in this bill, it is essential to renew the derogation granted in previous elections, setting the threshold for the establishment of 100-employee works councils. Indeed, a change in this threshold a few months from the start of the preparations for the elections would have been unmanageable for our companies and the services concerned. However, Minister, I think it would be desirable to provide in the long term a definitive legal anchor at this threshold of 100 workers to avoid any controversy in the future and to provide the necessary clarity and legal certainty. This could be envisaged after these social elections and with a view to those of 2020. Therefore, I intend to reflect on this important subject in collaboration with colleagues from all parties who wish to do so and to set this threshold in a law. In conclusion, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the MR Group will vote in favour of this bill which aims to make the legislation on social elections more coherent and readable and which is therefore perfectly in line with the government's policy of modernisation and administrative simplification.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-21-54-plenair-ip047x.u117	Mr Vice-first, I will be relatively brief, because this project does not require very long debates. As we know, social elections represent a particularly important moment in our democracy and require a large organization. In view of the number of disputes to which they are sometimes subject, they also require specific legislation. You are the minister in charge of social consultation. You are therefore well aware that it precedes the drafting of legislation, as is the opinion of the National Labour Council. This is an essential moment for companies and organisations representing workers – even if some question their existence. Of course, everyone wants all of this to work at best. It is exactly the same for other types of elections, whether municipal, provincial or federal. On 25 November 2014, a unanimous agreement was reached within the National Labour Council. We are therefore not dealing with the Group of Eight but with a unanimous agreement. This agreement is reflected in your bill, but as I pointed out in committee, it seems to me that it leaves three outstanding issues: two issues that had been raised by the National Labour Council and one additional issue that was not included in the NTC's agreement but which is nevertheless in your bill. You know that the social partners requested that the introduction of a list by electronic means be followed by an acknowledgement of receipt. Today, workers' representative organisations file a paper list and receive an acknowledgement of receipt. Tomorrow, we will also introduce this by electronic means. While I welcome the fact that technological progress is being taken into account, it seems to me quite normal that an acknowledgement of receipt should also be established, especially since this does not seem difficult to implement. This avoids disputes since it will give a certain date for filing the list. I therefore ask a simple question: will an acknowledgement of receipt be sent to trade union organisations when an electronic list of candidates is submitted? The National Labour Council also considered that we were facing social elections and that the formalism of the lists to be submitted by paper should not be increased. We know that some formalism exists. I remember having lived in the Charleroi Labour Court challenging social elections simply because the margins were not respected on a particular form. A trade union organization which considered that it had not had enough results and therefore elected to the works council had filed an appeal because it claimed that the other trade union organization had not formally complied with the paper form. This caused litigation for months; it cost the company a lot of money, which, having edited the forms, had to defend itself. You imagine that this can be dramatic. The National Labour Council considered that there was no need for additional formality for paper filing. However, as part of your bill, the lists must be in accordance with the model set out in the appendix to the bill. Let's imagine there's a slight discordance. Can you confirm to me that a non-conformity of a list of candidates introduced by paper will not lead to nullity? Yes or no? If necessary, you will fully respect the unanimous agreement of the National Labour Council. The National Labour Council did not discuss the transmission of the lists. You have added, as part of your project, that the lists should no longer be transmitted to the trade unions if there is a trade union delegation. Let us imagine that in a company, the liberal union or the socialist union has a trade union delegation and that the CSC, the ACW, does not have a representative, because not enough members. But a good election campaign and very important demands for the workers make it possible for it to go for sufficient votes to be present at the works council. The only problem is that she can't approach, pass on her electoral programme to the workers, because she doesn't have the list. Organizing a union meeting in a company where you don't have a union delegation, it's not easy. Could, as before, provisional voters' lists be transmitted to all trade union organizations? I believe, Deputy Prime Minister, that three yess on your part – be assured, this is not a marriage proposal – would demonstrate that you really are the minister of social consultation, the one who has understood and well integrated some legitimate clarifications to make, or some legitimate requests. That would lead me, on behalf of my group, to withdraw the amendments we have tabled which are in this direction. As you are in good faith, as I feel that you want to move forward, it would lead me to trust you for the respect not only of the bosses but also of the workers, for the proper organization of social consultation and the proper organization of a very important democratic event in our country: social elections. I want to give you that trust, Minister. I want, on behalf of my group, to say "yes" to you and vote on this bill. So I'm just waiting for you to answer three times yes and we can move forward, all together!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-21-54-plenair-ip047x.u118	Mr President, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I am not going to resume the discussions we have had in committee on this bill, but simply to sum up these debates on a few points. You have continued the work begun under the previous legislature to optimize the process of social elections. This project brings more clarity and visibility; it is obviously a positive point. A series of elements lighten the administrative burden of the procedure. Let us acknowledge that it is not always easy, both on the union bench and for employers, to follow the procedure in a precise and clear way. Perhaps a blunder, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. In the unanimous opinion of the CNT, you have accepted everything, except the request of the social partners that an acknowledgement of receipt be generated in case of electronic filing of a list of candidates. For reasons of legal certainty, the opinion of the social partners should be followed up on this point. I had tabled an amendment in committee, which was not followed by the majority. I repeat this amendment because, from a legal point of view, taking into account the opinion of all the social partners, it would be wise if electronic filing could be completely completed in order to avoid any possible recourse afterwards. Everything is perfect. Of course, social elections are repeated. They're not the first and they won't be the last. In this context, I would like to point out three points in a forward-looking way, not for next year's elections, but for the 2020 elections. Indeed, you, Deputy Prime Minister, will also have to prepare the legal texts for the elections. They will have to be published in 2019. The first relates to the issue of thresholds. It is not always possible to write legislation that infringes basic legislation, which is done here, since the basic law is the law of 20 September 1948, that this debate on the threshold is not new. It landed in 2008, in 2012. It rests within the social partners for the 2016 elections. The 2020 elections will require a legal decision. This can only be done in consultation with the social partners. In this respect, it is high time that we did not derogate from the basic laws and that the next law on this matter is clear on this point. The second aspect for the future is the question of the distinction between workers and employees. There is general agreement today that the distinction between white collars and blue collars is no longer appropriate, especially in the light of the reality in many companies. The Constitutional Court also ruled on the period of notice and the day of default in a very clear decision, with a basic argument that the distinction between workers and employees constitutes a violation of the principle of equality and non-discrimination guaranteed by the Constitution. It is true that the law of 20 September 1948 for social elections provides for a separate representation of workers and employees on the works council and the CPPT. Here again, Minister, I think you will agree: for 2020, this will have to be addressed. This is the call I make to you: we must ensure that the workers can still be represented. The same could be said in some companies where workers are largely in the majority. It will be necessary to ensure that employees can be represented. The third and final point on which we will have to make further progress in the future is the representation of women. This is in no way guaranteed. Of course, there have been initiatives, including a charter. There has been a slight improvement in the last social elections. Since morals are clearly not evolving on their own, it will take a little legislative boost to support the presence of women on the lists. The argument that in some sectors there are few women is admissible. However, there are many sectors where women are the majority but where, unfortunately, they are virtually not or very little present on the works councils and CPPT. That, ladies and gentlemen, is what I wanted to put forward here, you will have understood, essentially so that, in a more forward-looking way, we can evaluate and change this legislation for the 2020 social elections, at least on the three points I have just mentioned. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, even if our amendment is not accepted, we will vote positively on this bill, as I did in committee. Social elections are an integral part of our model of social consultation, as well as the bodies for consultation within companies which are particularly important.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-21-54-plenair-ip047x.u119	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I shall be brief. Since I come from Mr Peumans' school, I am afraid to keep my brief speech in this chair. I brought notes, but I'll only use them to quote. I am not an opponent of the trade union system, quite the contrary. I think that in the past our trade unions have helped to ensure that we could all be socially emancipated. We should all be grateful to the trade unions for that. There are also trade union organizations which continue to fulfil their duties and do what they have to do, namely to defend the interests of workers in the workplace. From a number of dramatic files from the recent past, especially in the manufacturing industry, we have learned that the unions were often the only ones who dared to stand up to the great capital, for which we thank you. Does that mean that we agree with the whole trade union system? No. The national trade union leadership is too often involved in national politics and is all too often abusing the weapons of strike. I regret that. A number of power stations are rather blurry, mostly unclear, and then I express myself with caution. And yes, there are trade union organizations that have discriminatory policies against people with clear political convictions. We are critical of that. The draft law before us is a technical draft law which adapts a number of issues to existing legislation and which should not, in fact, give rise to in-depth political debate. However, I read the words of Mr Hedebouw in replying to Mr Clarinval's report, and I quote: 'The high degree of syndicalism in Belgium proves that employees in our country are highly demanding parties to be involved in enterprise policy'. I think Mr Hedebouw has too idealistic a view of our workers. Mr Hedebouw, our employees do not join a trade union because they are idealistic syndicists. No, they do this for practical, pragmatic reasons. Let me give you an example from a sector that I know very well. In the port of Antwerp, every port worker is affiliated to a union because he must be a member. One cannot become a port worker if one is not a member of one of the three recognized port unions. Worse still, one cannot promote in the port of Antwerp if one is not a member of one of the three recognized port unions. Worse still, one cannot change shifts in the port of Antwerp and in the other Flemish ports if one is not a member of one of the three recognized port unions. At the end of his career, one cannot avail himself of the benefit of reduced working capacity if one is not a member of one of the three recognized port unions. Am I against that? Not necessarily. I am in favour of the principles laid down in the law on port work. I am in favour of what can be called a closed shop. I would even like to go a little further in the story that trade unions are allowed to take part in this decision. But, and now I come to the essence of today's debate, there is something thoroughly wrong with the power relations between the three unions. Socialists have been able to claim more than 60% of the number of port workers for 50 years or more. The green union follows with a little less, and the blue with even less. There is no one asking questions, no one asking that social elections should be organised in this company, not with hundreds but with thousands of workers, Mr Hedebouw. Worse still, not only in the pool of port workers, also in the port company itself, which offers the facility services and where thousands of people are employed, social elections are never organised. There too, social relations have been established for over 50 years: so much for the red union, so much for the green, so much for the blue. Isn't the whole of this legislation hypocritical? I read that Mr Van Quickenborne also pointed out in the debate that social elections were never held there. This applies not only to the pool of port workers and port companies, but also to many public and semi-public sectors. Then the whole of this debate is becoming a little hypocritical. Then what are we doing? We are asking for democracy, transparency and fair relations. We want to know what social relations are like in Flanders and we are debating whether it should be about companies of 50 or 100 people, while we are overlooking companies with thousands of people. For these reasons, Minister, I find this proposal a little hypocritical. As long as you do not have the political courage to organise social elections in the big public companies, in the pool of port workers and in the port companies, this is nothing more than a piece of paper. So this time we will not be voting in favour of that rag of paper.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-21-54-plenair-ip047x.u120	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today's debate affects me not only for political and democratic reasons but also for personal reasons. I am deeply concerned about the protection of delegates and trade union life. I had the misfortune of having experienced the example of a mother who worked in a chemical company in Verviers and who, because she was a trade union delegate, was dismissed by her boss. Worse still, she won in the Labour Court, which made it clear that the dismissal was unfair. Today, in Belgium, when an employer dismisses a worker for political and trade union reasons, he has no obligation to reintegrate that worker into the company. What is worse, from a repressive point of view, than to withdraw from someone his salary and his job for the expression of ideas in a company? Ladies and gentlemen, this makes me say that in Belgium, on this type of competence, human rights stop at the doors of companies. This is the discussion we have today. Yes, it touched me strongly, when, at the age of 14, for six long weeks, my mother, together with her union colleague, took a trade union action in front of the company in a caravan to demand that she be reintegrated into the company. No professional misconduct had been demonstrated. No faults in production had been demonstrated. The boss had to say himself in court: "Ms.Hertogen – that's what my mother is called – bothers me in the management of my business. I'm the boss of the company. I decide who works in this company." Ladies and gentlemen, this can no longer happen! This is the subject of the debate that we legislators have today. This is the debate we have on the organisation of trade union and social democracy in companies! Mr Lachaert wouldn't be surprised, but he's gone. Minister, I regret that this draft law does not correspond to the 2002 European directive on social dialogue and the exchange of socio-economic information in SMEs. The Directive provides that social dialogue and the provision of socio-economic information must take place in enterprises from 50 employees or in establishments from 20 employees. In Belgium there are only social consultation bodies from 100 employees and from 50 employees for establishments. The directive that Europe normally imposes on us is still not being applied in Belgium today. In other words, we cannot vote for a works council today in companies with 50 employees. In that sense I am a little surprised at the carte blanche in the opinion piece of Mr Lachaert and Mr Van Quickenborne. I read, Mr Van Quickenborne, that democracy seeks in social elections. You say there is no democracy in social elections. You're right. But you do not say anything about the fact that there is no voting rights in Belgian SMEs. Why don't you talk about that? Fifty percent of employees work in SMEs and have no voting rights. Why not ask for the right to vote for all those workers if you want democracy in social elections? Give democracy to those 50% in SMEs. Give democracy to 50% of these workers by granting them the right to vote in a company council! Instead, no, you want the limit of one hundred to be engraved in the marble, while the European Union is asking for fifty. So you want democracy to be restricted for all workers in SMEs. The worst thing is that after the Second World War, in 1948, 67 years ago, when the works councils were set up, a limit of 50 employees was set. However, since 1948 the limit in Belgium has remained at 100 employees in practice. The social partners agreed in the Group of Ten to keep the limit at 50 for 2008 and 2012. Today's discussion is about 2016. My question is why we do not impose the limit on 50 in Belgium. You asked for a historic act on the committee. You know I want to help you, Minister. We can get into the history books today. It will be said later that Mr Peeters, under the impetus of the Labour Party, has brought the limit back to 50. You can write history today, but then you must have the courage to tell your colleagues from Open Vld and the N-VA not to bring the limit to 100. Many workers and servants in SMEs will no longer be able to vote. There is also a practical reason. Why is it important for trade unions to be able to organise elections in SMEs? For me, that is, among other things, a matter of safety. Statistics confirm that the most serious accidents occur in SMEs. In SMEs, 36.8 % of the total number of employees are employed, but the proportion of SMEs in fatal accidents is 55.9 %. Thus, many more fatal accidents occur in SMEs than in the rest of the companies. It is therefore necessary that the trade unions in SMEs should be able to monitor the application of the safety rules in our companies. Minister, Europe proves that there is another way to do this. There is no threshold in Sweden for works councils. A threshold of 5 employees is applied in Germany and Austria. In Spain the number is 6, 10 in the Netherlands and 11 in France. The limit is 15 workers in Luxembourg and Italy, while it is 20 in Greece and Finland. The question now is: why is it not possible to apply the limit of fifty, which was concluded in 1948 when the works councils were founded and which is required of us by Europe? That is why, Minister, the PTB - as a democratic party concerned with the right to organized trade union expression in small and medium-sized enterprises - will not endorse this bill. Indeed, we want to support a genuine democracy at the grass-roots level, so as to confer all its rights on social democracy.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-21-54-plenair-ip047x.u121	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank everyone, the chairman of the committee and all the Members, for the discussion and the speeches today. It is true that the social elections are a very important moment in this country. 1 979 000 workers can vote, which is a very important group that will realize a moment of social elections and results. That is why we have carefully included the opinion of the National Labour Council in this draft law and have taken very careful account of a number of issues highlighted by Mr Clarinval, Mr Lachaert and others, in particular to introduce the electronic possibilities in the social elections after the sixth state reform and with time. Comments were made, which were also addressed in committee and which received a reply. I'd still like to go over them. Mrs Fonck, and other members of the committee, have rightly referred to the problem of workers/workers. Mrs Demir also asked a question about the unit lists, to which an answer was also given. We cannot go so far as to completely ignore the distinction between workers and servants. Mrs Fonck, you stressed the importance of organising the social elections in 2020 with a unitary list. Social elections with a unitary list of workers-servants are hopefully possible against the next social elections. You also mentioned the problem of men and women. Here too we discussed it. I think you are right to refer to the charter signed by the trade unions in 2004, with which they promise additional efforts and will also make sure that men and women are represented on the candidate lists. On 6 May 2015, I myself made an appeal to respect the relationship between men and women in the composition of the candidate lists for the 2016 social elections. You have pointed out, Mrs. Fonck, that there is a difference between sectors, such as hospitals. There is also the port sector. We have to take that into account. You're right. We must encourage trade unions to organise a balance between women and men. This has also been underlined in committee. I can agree with that. A third element is the threshold of 100 employees for a works council. Mr. Clarinval and Ms. Fonck stressed the importance of organizing a law for the future as well, concerning thresholds. We have replied that we are now, of course, implementing the advice of the National Labour Council. I agree with you to organize this in another way in 2020. Mr. Massin, you asked three questions. As far as your first question is concerned, there is de facto an acknowledgement of receipt of the documents. With regard to your second question concerning invalidity, I can tell you that in order to introduce the list of candidates by paper, the model document set out in the annex to the Act must be used. If, at the time of the introduction of the candidates, the document does not conform 100% to the model, this does not mean the nullity of the procedure or elections. With respect to your third question about mailing lists, we have not changed anything. We have added the possibility for some companies to inform the delegate. I confirm to you that in practice the unions receive the lists and we are not going to change anything. As regards the follow-up to the opinions of the National Labour Council, I have already mentioned that we have almost followed them to the letter. I hope that all unions and the PS will agree to approve the bill. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the draft before us is an important draft of the law. I hope that we will soon be able to approve it by a large majority. After all, it is a very important thing in this country that we organise social elections and that we organise them in a very good way, in a legally regulated manner with documents and everything. I hope that this law will enable us to organise the elections in May in a very good way and to take note of the results.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-21-54-plenair-ip047x.u122	Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? ) The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-21-54-plenair-ip047x.u123	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1048/4) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1048/4) The draft law contains 36 articles as well as the annex. The bill has 36 articles, as well as the annex.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-21-54-plenair-ip047x.u124	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendment that has been tabled, the article that has been adopted and on the whole will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendment and the reserved article as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. ****** Decision of the article-by-article discussion:
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-21-54-plenair-ip047x.u125	Held: the vote on the amendment and Article 13.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-21-54-plenair-ip047x.u126	Article adopted by article: Articles 1 to 12, 14 to 36 and the Annex.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-21-54-plenair-ip047x.u127	******
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-21-54-plenair-ip047x.u128	Ladies and gentlemen, the vote on the motion for a resolution which I have just referred to is the motion by Mrs Temmerman, asking, on behalf of the sp.a Group, that Secretary of State Sleurs be summoned to the Chamber to explain the transfer of powers. Mrs Temmerman, I would like to point out that we have already had the discussion on this point. Nevertheless, I would like to give you the floor again. Colleagues, may I have your attention?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-21-54-plenair-ip047x.u129	Mr President, I will be very brief for several reasons.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-21-54-plenair-ip047x.u130	Right. [[Hilarity]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-21-54-plenair-ip047x.u131	Mrs. Sleurs is on the news on VTM and VRT and also on this evening. If she can explain it there, so can she here.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-21-54-plenair-ip047x.u132	Mr President, my motion originally followed Mr Flahaux's question. After that, we also heard that Mrs Sleurs made statements in Villa Politica. So she might as well have done so here in Parliament. Moreover, we are now also reading that Mrs Sleurs is at the VRT and VTM tonight in Terruj, Terruj, VRT and VTM. Mrs Sleurs therefore considers it more important to communicate through the media, but does not consider it necessary to come to Parliament. That is really wronging Parliament. However, it is not an easy matter. Fiscal fraud is an important issue. Her attitude is really ignoring Parliament, which we cannot accept. That is why we are asking that question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-21-54-plenair-ip047x.u133	I put Mrs Temmerman's motion for a vote on the motion for a resolution by Secretary of State Sleurs. Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 57 Yes No. 79 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 136 Total Consequently, the order motion is rejected. Consequently, the point of order is dismissed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-21-54-plenair-ip047x.u134	The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. If there is no objection, I shall consider it adopted; in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be sent to the committees responsible. If there are no comments on this subject, I will take it into account as a matter of fact and refer the proposals back to the relevant committees in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-21-54-plenair-ip047x.u135	This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Committee on the Interior, General Affairs and the Civil Service on 12 May 2015. This interview was held at the public meeting of the Committee for the Interior, General Affairs and Public Administration on 12 May 2015. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 039/1): a motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr. Emir Kir; A simple motion was tabled by Ms. Sarah Smeyers. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 039/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mr Emir Kir; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Sarah Smeyers. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of voting / Start of the vote. Did everyone vote and check their vote? / Did everyone vote and check his voice? End of voting / End of vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-21-54-plenair-ip047x.u136	Yes 79 Yes No. 57 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 136 Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-21-54-plenair-ip047x.u137	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 3) Yes 132 Yes No. 2............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 137 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (984/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (984/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-21-54-plenair-ip047x.u138	Vote on Amendment No 3 by Catherine Fonck on article 13. (1048/2) Vote on Amendment No 3 by Catherine Fonck to Article 13. (1048/2) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 54 Yes No. 79 No Abstentions 4 Abstensions Total 137 Total The amendment was therefore rejected and Article 13 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 13 was adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-21-54-plenair-ip047x.u139	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 5) Yes 132 Yes No. 3...................................................................................................................... 3...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 137 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1048/5) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1048/5)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-21-54-plenair-ip047x.u140	We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for Thursday 28 May 2015. We must proceed to the approval of the agenda of the meeting on Thursday, 28 May 2015. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 28 May 2015 at 2.15 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Thursday, 28 May 2015, at 2.15 p.m.
