ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic209x.u1	If I am not mistaken, Mr Demon and Mr Terwingen have agreed that Mr Terwingen may put the first question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic209x.u2	Mr President, I would like to thank my colleague, Mr Demon, very much. Minister, my question concerns strategic security and prevention plans. I must honestly say that I am asking this question not only as a federal Member of Parliament but also with the cap of mayor of Maasmechelen. Analysis of the safety plans showed that the benefits may be quite different. A further amendment to the law has recently been introduced which lays down two cumulative additional criteria, i.e. population above 30 000 and a welfare index below the Belgian average. This will also allow a number of other municipalities to join the safety and prevention plans. As I said, Minister, the amounts received by the municipalities vary considerably. Firstly, on the basis of what criteria are the concessions currently distributed among the municipalities? Secondly, this is also part of the coalition agreement or a revision of it. How's that going? What's the status? How will you deal with that? Thirdly, is it possible that, on the basis of the evaluation to be carried out under the government agreement, for municipalities with certain specific and current problems, I am thinking of radicalism, but I would like to add, for example, criminal motorcycle gangs to certain arguments or criteria that can play pro or counter?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic209x.u3	Mr Terwingen, in the past, since the development of security contracts in 1992, resources have been distributed according to the needs of cities and municipalities. Afterwards, budgetary distribution was influenced by the various structural changes in contracts, e.g. the disappearance of police aspects, urban regeneration, the creation of an ex-security contract allowance and the merger of drug plans and security and prevention contracts into a single name. I certainly do not intend to reduce the budget allocated to this policy. I would remind you that the budgets allocated under the 2014-2017 Strategic Safety and Prevention Plans are guaranteed until the end of this cycle and are included in the Royal Decree of 7 November 2013 on the strategic safety and prevention plans and the operatives of the Community Guards. I really want to develop, in accordance with the government agreement, a methodology with the various partners in order to achieve an impact assessment of the strategic safety and prevention plans. I believe it is necessary to involve the actors in the field in this evaluation initiative in order to avoid the various obstacles to the applicability of scientific research. The aim of this evaluation must be to improve the coherence of actions, to identify and use good practice and to ensure the efficient use of public funds. It is in this respect that the action of the administration since 2007 to collect the various data and achievements of the operatives used in the framework of this strategic safety and prevention plan should be understood. In particular, the cross-cutting evaluation during the 2007-2010 cycle and the future cartography of the 2014-2017 cycle, which aims to accurately list all actions undertaken by the different cities and municipalities within the framework of Home Affairs policy, will be highlighted. The results and the analysis of all these evaluation activities will serve as a basis for the possible implementation of new methodologies and an adapted normative framework. However, it is not intended to change that framework during this cycle that is regulated for a period of four years, until 31 December 2017. It is therefore in preparation for the new cycle to start on 1 January 2018. I come to your third question. The question of the resources allocated to municipalities to combat radicalism is currently being studied by the government. This question is linked to the allowance granted under the measures relating to the former security and social contracts. Ten pilot cities are currently financed by these measures. I would also point out that the fight against radicalism is fully in line with the field of action of the strategic safety and prevention plans and that cities and municipalities have the opportunity to change their strategic plan annually, but also, in exceptional cases, to make changes outside the period foreseen for this purpose, on the basis of detailed motivation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic209x.u4	Thank you, Minister, for your clear and transparent reply. Let me give you an example: I don't want to complain or play Calimero, I'm just giving the facts. Maasmechelen receives EUR 41 000 under the safety and prevention plan. I have heard well that this will not change until 31 December 2017. Bilzen, a small provincial town in the middle of Limburg, just entered, receives 71 000 euros. I can quote some interesting figures, but, again, we will do our best in Maasmechelen. Bruges, unlike Maasmechelen, I know, gets about 700 000 euros. Sint-Truiden, roughly similar but slightly more urbanised than Maasmechelen, receives four times as much, namely 182 000 euros. I'm just finding that it's important to look at that. Maybe this is something else. Genk bordering Maasmechelen, although much larger, receives thirty times more of the prevention plan. We must not compare apples with pears, but we must evaluate them. You will. I dare to argue for more and faster flexibility in view of the concrete problems on the ground. Perhaps more flexibility can be shown by your office and during the ongoing programming, because municipalities can change their plans during the ongoing programming, but the budget remains the same. Perhaps in the future there will be a little more flexibility that will enable your office to better support certain municipalities, for example those suffering from border crime. I believe that, on the one hand, we are dealing with a log instrument that will apply until 2017. Pacta sunt servanda, I know that too. Perhaps there will be some flexibility afterwards. On the other hand, a number of historically anchored amounts have been committed since the 1990s and are very different. As an example, I can also quote Houthalen-Helchteren. This municipality has the same problem as Maasmechelen. Houthalen-Helchteren has about 30 000 inhabitants and Maasmechelen has about 40 000 inhabitants. Houthalen-Helchteren receives 226 000 euros. I believe that there are a large number of criteria in this area, but I believe that there are inexplicable differences. I welcome your answer. You will evaluate everything. I am in favour of greater flexibility.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic209x.u5	Minister, I assume that many police areas started mobile offices last year or this year. The project is called ISIS, mobile office for interventionists. The demand comes from local authorities, but at the same time many police areas are affected. EUR 15 000 will be invested in the future of ICT and further support for the operational functioning of these members. The crazy thing is, of course, that the question arises from the federal MPs and that there were procedural problems at the federal level, in particular on the approval and extension of the cooperation agreement between the local police and the ICT Shared Services. If I have looked it up correctly, then those are services of Chancery of the Prime Minister who go to work for the integrated police and at the same time manage those services. On the one hand, it is about the topic of "other works," on the other hand, the theme of "mobile works." A few weeks ago, we had the information that the project would be operational before the summer. Today is July 1st. In the meantime, have you approved the cooperation agreement to enable mobile work from local police areas? I'm assuming a possible delay can be repaired. Additional costs have been incurred for software updates. Do the local areas have to pay for it, or does the federal level finance it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic209x.u6	The protocol agreement with the cooperation agreement between the Shared Service of the Chancery of the Prime Minister and the integrated police is very important to me. Relatively shortly after my arrival, I received a presentation from the director of ICT and the ICT manager at the Standing Commission on the future vision of ICT for the integrated police, the so-called i-Police project. It used to be called ISIS, but in these times of radicalism and violent extremism we changed the name to i-Police. The mobile work is an important first release of this new philosophy of the future. We therefore want this to be rolled out as soon as possible. As far as principles are concerned, there is no problem. Whoever works for the federal government must comply with a set of administrative rules and procedures before a file is ready. When two departments, that of the Prime Minister and mine, have to prepare a dossier together, that is another challenge. After taking the necessary steps through the ICT Monitoring Committee, two Finance Inspectors, in this case Home Affairs and Chancery, the dossier is currently on its way to the Minister of Budget. Then it can be put on the table at the Council of Ministers. That is the state of play. The cost of keeping the system running will be borne federally. But the licence fee and the costs for updates associated with the use are borne by the user services. This means that they are charged to the federal police, to the users of the federal police, and to the local corps, as far as their own users are concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic209x.u7	Thank you. I assume, then, that before going into summer recess, the government will be able to settle this. At least I hope so.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic209x.u8	Mr. President, Minister, a few days ago, you announced, in accordance with your policy note, the possibility of police officers patrolling the Internet. You also indicated that you did not want to keep this police service in charge of cybercrime at the central level, but rather to decentralize it at the district level. We note that there is significant crime on the Internet and that, in the context of the fight against terrorism, the recruitment of young people is mainly done through this - according to statistics, almost 91%. We also discussed a bill that I tabled on the removal of illegal content on the Internet through an administrative procedure. What will be the tasks assigned to this future police on the Internet? What are the objectives and limitations? What is the status of your bill or order? Who will be in charge of this new mission? Will you call on an existing unit? You wanted the operational units to be located in the boroughs, but this type of crime goes far beyond those borders. What have you planned for these new generation patrols? The Privacy Commission has expressed support for this approach. Has it nuanced its opinion with conditions to be respected in respect of individual freedoms?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic209x.u9	Mr President, dear colleague, the amendment of the law that legally governs the Internet patrol was provided for in the government agreement. The terms and conditions are currently under discussion with government partners and I cannot tell you more about this or the timing. As far as regional units are concerned, you rely on two wrong assumptions. There are also specialized research units which are decentralized, namely the Regional Cybercrime Unit (RCCU). In the past, they have already successfully dealt with important issues. The spying case at Belgacom is a good example. You also assume that decentralized units operate only within their own borough. In fact, the cases they manage often push them to cross the borders of their borough, or even the country, because, as you rightly point out, crime is a cross-border phenomenon. The mission of the central services is to coordinate, facilitate and, where necessary, support such investigations. The aim is not to resume an investigation. This has never been their mission. The same applies to the mission of Internet patrolling. The proposed legal amendment is intended to provide each police officer with an explicit legal framework for access to public spaces on the Internet. It therefore not only targets teams specifically responsible for patrolling, but also includes the online presence of each police officer in public spaces in the course of carrying out his or her legal duties. The mission of Internet patrolling, a task carried out by specialized teams in this field, may be organized by any police department, by departments responsible for carrying out the tasks of the administrative or judicial police. The discussion on decentralization is therefore irrelevant here, and I would remind you that this decentralization movement allows us to step up the fight against cybercrime and make it more effective. Since the optimisation of the federal police is still under way, it is too soon to tell you more about the creation of a team dedicated to Internet research and its possible collaboration with counterparts abroad in this context. Apart from this, the central federal police services are already working on several levels with foreign services and will continue to do so. As regards the necessary guarantees concerning the rights and freedoms of everyone, I refer you to the opinion of the Commission on the Protection of Privacy in this area. Of course, we will take his remarks into account.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic209x.u10	Minister, thank you for your answer. You clarify with the press that gave the impression that it would be a particular unit of the police. As far as I understand, you want to give every police officer the ability to operate that mission. I guess if there's a bit more of a problem, they'll go back to the specialty department. I do not criticise the measure, which seems to me positive. We are talking about terrorism, but we know that the Internet can accommodate different forms of crime. I simply wanted to know what was going to be involved in decentralizing services in this area. We do not agree on this point. Fortunately, because it is inherent in democracy! In any case, if I have understood correctly, it is not a unit specifically responsible for this mission. We will therefore look forward to your bill and, more generally, the reorganization of the federal police.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic209x.u11	Minister, many people are forced into Belgium every year. In the majority of cases, the emergency procedure is applied with the intervention of the Justice and Police Department. The police often come into contact with the mentally ill. The number of contacts would even increase as a result of the socialisation of care. There are usually no clear guidelines for the police in relation to dealing with mentally ill persons. Such persons should be treated in an appropriate manner, including without the use of force or handcuffs, confinement in a police cell. Sometimes policemen are asked by paramedics to sit in the ambulance while transporting a mentally ill person when it is transferred to an institution. I assume that the task of the police in this area will become clear in the context of the key tasks debate. In the meantime, it would be a good thing for the police to know how that is done today, so that they can intervene appropriately. Minister, what role does the police have today in a forced admission? Can police officers be expected to do the transport or sit in an ambulance? What is the role of the police in intervening in a psychiatric institution? Are there guidelines that the police should follow when a mentally ill person is incarcerated? Is there any attention in the basic training of the police to dealing with mentally ill people?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic209x.u12	Mr Demon, this is going to be a comprehensive answer because it is a comprehensive problem. To sum up, the role of the police is one of protecting and assisting individuals, especially vulnerable people. The police shall exercise a supervisory mission and shall ensure the safety of all parties concerned. That's the general framework, but I'm going into more detail. In the context of carrying out their first-line assignments, namely at any time and in all circumstances contributing to the protection of and assistance to persons, the members of the police forces shall be obliged to pay particular attention to the specific needs of the persons vulnerable within our society and, where the situation so requires, to ensure a referral to the specialised services. A person is mentally ill when the condition of mental illness has already been medically diagnosed, i.e. by a physician. In the case of mentally ill persons who seriously endanger their health and safety or who pose a serious threat to the life or physical integrity of others, the police services shall carry out a supervisory mission pursuant to Article 18 of the Police Office Act. The police forces prevent them from wandering around and, if necessary, can apprehend them with compulsion. The same authority exists with regard to the mentally ill who have been reported as fleeing the psychiatric service where they were observed or where they were prevented. Article 9 of the Law of 26 June 1990 on the protection of the person of the mentally ill states that in urgent cases the prosecutor of the King may decide that the sick person will be admitted to the psychiatric service he designates. The Procurator of the King shall act on his own initiative either after written advice from a physician appointed by him or at the written request of an interested party. That request shall be accompanied by the medical report referred to in Article 5. The opinion or report shall demonstrate the urgency of the matter. I would stress that it is not for the police to assess whether the person concerned may be subject to the conditions of forced admission. That is the sole competence of the physician. The police are carrying out the decision. The doctor shall decide whether the person concerned is subject to these conditions. After the physician has decided that the person concerned is subject to the conditions of compulsory admission, has drawn up the medical certificate and has demonstrated the urgency, the King's Attorney may order that the person concerned be admitted to a psychiatric service designated by him. The nature of the deprivation of liberty ordered by the King's Attorney is not an arrest, it is a protection measure. The arrest is not administrative or judicial, it is a protection measure. In all cases, police intervention must comply with the principles of legality, subsidiarity, proportionality and opportunity, the basic conditions for police action. These principles imply, inter alia, that priority should be given to dialogue and to the least compelling and radical intervention techniques. Intervention modalities should be adapted to both the objective to be pursued and the circumstances of intervention. They depend, for example, on the behaviour and vulnerability of the person to whom the intervention takes place. Of course, police officers must remain on the ground until the physician is called to leave again, and they must take the necessary measures to ensure the safety of all those present, such as the family members, the physician and the person concerned. However, the called police officers may also call on a physician or ambulance on the basis of the duty to assist persons whose health in this case requires or appears to require the intervention of a physician. On the basis of the doctor's findings, the admission for observation and the resulting deprivation of liberty can be ordered by the King's Attorney. In short, the police may, on the basis of a suspicion, summon a doctor, who finds that something is going on, but it is ultimately the King's Attorney, who gives the consent. In any case, the King's Attorney must be contacted and informed. If the admission is ordered for observation by the Procurator of the King, the transport and transmission of the mentally ill person to be taken up for observation shall in principle be ensured by the service 100 or by any other specialised service which has accepted to cooperate in the uniform system of summoning under an agreement concluded with the State. The transfer or transport shall require the presence of specialised personnel, or, as the case may be, members of the citizen's public authority. In the first instance, therefore, it is not the police, who execute the decision to take the forced admission. She can accompany the medical services to provide assistance. In the case of the person who has been medically diagnosed with mental illness, protection measures may only be laid down in the Law on Mental Diseases. It is a detailed answer, which clearly indicates the procedure to be followed in the various circumstances. As for your second question, the police are not authorized to act administratively within a psychiatric facility. It can only act there within the framework of its powers as a judicial police. Thirdly, you asked for guidelines and training. The guidelines and good practice for addressing such situations are contained in different police training courses. For example, the basic training of the police officer includes a module dedicated to interventions in situations with mentally ill people. Policemen are sensitized to the problem during their training. They are taught to intervene in an appropriate manner. Specific aspects of the training include the identification of the phenomenon, the legal bases for police action, the role of the various departments and institutions involved in the problem, and the management of a crisis situation in which a person has mental problems. In addition to basic training, there are three continuing training courses that address the problem: mental illness and police attitudes, amok situations and excited delirium, disappearance and management of mentally ill people. In view of the permanent need to improve the quality of action in the field, the Federal Police Training Directorate regularly analyses the needs for training and information for police staff in the field. It is also working on the standardization of the training given in the various police schools. In addition, a working group has been set up in the Federal Police in response to recent incidents and in view of the increase in the number of cases requiring the intervention of police forces in relation to persons who are psychologically or mentally vulnerable. That working group shall draw up specific training which shall include the legal framework of police interventions, the typology of the main cases of mental problems and the symptoms found and identifiable for police officers, antistigma of the phenomenon and powers for police and emergency services respectively, as well as the design of the techniques of dialogue and adapted intervention. The research for specific training is carried out, inter alia, by consulting professionals within the mental health sector, exchanging good practice with foreign police services and participating in various seminars and workshops discussing the issue. That is a very detailed answer for a phenomenon which holds our attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic209x.u13	Thank you very much for the answer, Minister. It is a good thing that a working group has been set up that will actually deal with matters. You are clearly responding positively to the question of whether you have learned lessons from recent events.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic209x.u14	Mr President, Minister, you know that I am in a difficult position as chairman of the Flemish-Brabant West fire department, because that is one of the larger and more difficult areas of the region, for all kinds of reasons, with a lot of social unrest, which I have heard very often also reach you or your services. In any case, we are trying to make progress in constant consultation with the social partners, and this is even looking good in recent weeks or days. An exception is a very precise problem which is always addressed in the social dialogue. It has to do with the particular fact that in the large fire zone Flemish-Brabant West also the facilities municipalities Bever, Drogenbos, Kraainem, Linkebeek, Sint-Genesius-Rode, Wemmel and Wezenbeek-Oppem are present. Those facilities municipalities manage to convince the syndicated representatives of the entire fire department area that, as a result of that presence and under the applicable language legislation, there is an obligation to introduce a bilingual premium in that fire department area. The reasoning is clear, in particular that the provision of services to citizens in these facilities municipalities can be effective in two languages at any given time. To this end, there is a great deal of room for interpretation. Apparently, the government officials who are now part of the fire department also received a bilingual premium, which is a precedent. Is it true, Minister, that until recently the firefighters in the facilities municipalities were entitled to a bilingual premium? Do you have any knowledge of the amounts of that premium? Do you know whether the grant of that premium is based on legislation? If so, which one? Your answer may be useful to me in the future social dialogue. Do you think it would be desirable for a bilingual bonus to be paid? Is there a budget at the federal level to pay such benefits?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic209x.u15	Mr President, Mr Bonte, on three specific questions you will have three specific answers. It is not true that some municipalities provided a bilingual premium for firefighters in their municipal statutes. In any case, it is not a legal right. Nor do I intend to introduce the bilingualism premium. This applies only to the fire department of Brussels. The zones receive, in addition to their basic dosage, an additional amount. These grants provide for the additional cost of the fire-fighting reform. The demand for the bilingualism premium is not a result of this reform, so we do not provide for additional premiums.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic209x.u16	That is how I prefer the answers, Mr Minister, to be brief and clear. I will also take the report with me to the next social consultation, so that there are no more misunderstandings, either about the past or about the legal basis. Thanks for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic209x.u17	Mr President, Minister, it is good that these two questions were placed on the agenda one after the other. I am, of course, glad that the chairman of the fire zone concerned is here, because there are a lot of elements involved here, hopefully these were only the first childhood diseases in paying off firefighters in this region. It is about the fire stations of Zaventem, Vilvoorde, Londerzeel, Asse, Opwijk, Halle and Lennik. It appears that a lot of people have received their wages late or incomplete and that there were also a lot of problems with the meal cheques. It even went so far that Vilvoorde's fire station threatened a strike. That threat has been suspended for the time being, but I would like some more information on this matter. It is a pity that I have to play the role of a syndicater here, Mr Bonte. [[Hilarity]] In previous reforms, for example in the case of the judiciary, we have seen that medical personnel in prison have had to wait seven, eight or ten months for pay to be paid. We must not go down that road again, whatever reform we are implementing. People are entitled to their pay, at the right time, in other words: on the scheduled date plus five calendar days. These are social achievements, Mr President of the fire zone, which are not touched. My questions to the Minister are as follows. Are you aware of this problem, Minister? Are there any other reasons why these children's diseases come up here? Will the people who were underpaid be compensated for this? In what way do they deal with this? Are there any other areas affected by the incorrect or late payment of firefighters?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic209x.u18	You are lucky, Mr Van Biesen, because many members of this committee, who are here, are chairman of a fire department. However, the answer will be given to the Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic209x.u19	As you know, I'm a priori against cumulation. In other words, this never applied to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic209x.u20	Mr President, I am indeed aware of the problem, because I have been caught by it a few times at the openings of barracks. There were people there manifesting and at some point I even received these people in my cabinet. With the adoption of the Civil Security Act of 15 May 2007, the fire department landscape was thoroughly reformed in Belgium. The organisation, neither the structures nor the statutes were spared. It is therefore not surprising that there are indeed difficulties at the start-up of the zones which are not limited to the poor communication between the mayor's council represented on the zoning councils, on the one hand, and the executive staff, on the other. At the start of this government, we had a choice between two scenarios. We were aware that children's diseases would occur. We could postpone it one more time and extend the pre-zone data, but in that way we would perhaps have given the working field the signal that it would all turn out to be nothing. Either we could assume that we would suffer from childhood diseases and still start our inspection, but instruct our inspection to act coachingly. Not to inspect as policemen, but to map problems. In this way we can see how we can solve them, either through mediation or through changes in the law or the Royal Decree. We have chosen that second model. So I asked my administration to act coachingly, to raise the issues and, where necessary, to make on-the-spot inspections to find solutions, not to inspect or to tap the fingers. In the specific case of the area you are talking about, I have offered to mediate between trade unions and aid areas, following a number of actions. If communication between the zone and the syndicates is not so easy, I want to act as a mediator. One of the trade unions has already taken up my offer and we have talked together in the cabinet, which means that the strike has now been suspended indefinitely. We have agreed that a list of bottlenecks, as well as a list of good practices, should be drawn up for each zone to determine whether there are problems that require a structural solution and whether there are things that are going wrong. So we can help the zone solve these problems. At federal level, there is no provision for compensation for firefighters who have been waiting a long time to pay their wages. The philosophy of fire-fighting reform is that we now have 34 employers, namely the 34 zones. They must ensure that wages are paid correctly. In most areas, almost all over the country, that has happened correctly. In the area you're quoting, that's a little more difficult. I understand that the necessary measures have been taken in the meantime. However, it does not go far enough to say that the federal level must match. Finally, I also asked the governors to support the zones. Replacing the zones will take time, but I notice that there is a lot of commitment and good will in most places. We are trying together, in partnership, to get these things started. I might be able to tell you that at this time, all except one area has been started. Today, on July 1st, the penultimate zone has started. The last zone will start at the end of the year. Then they're all gone.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic209x.u21	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. The reform is fundamental and I believe that everyone agrees with it. We have always supported this in Parliament. It is true that there must be sufficient communication and agreement, but I can understand that the incorrect or late payment of wages is a step too far. I would like to ask this area, in one way or another, to step up its efforts and take responsibility for those 600 workers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic209x.u22	Mr President, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, trade union organisations and firemen are so worried that they are giving notice of a serious strike, which this body concerned with the safety of the population never does with the joy of heart. The firefighters are concerned because it seems to them that a reform not without difficulty undertaken by your predecessor, with imperfections doubtless but which has at least been negotiated at length, is now substantially modified by royal decrees. That would be the case, in particular, of the training component on which you were reassuring in your last intervention in committee. This approach should be more transparent, failing which so-called remedial orders are likely not to play their part. Could you inform us of the content of these orders, particularly with regard to training? How will this affect fire schools?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic209x.u23	Minister, I would like to touch once again on the subject that was put to you during your visit to our area a few months ago. In our zone there is the front post Neerpelt, which is of a fairly recent date. The applicable Royal Decree provides that the car pump may only be used as one of the six firefighters manning the car pump is a commanding officer. Since it is a young post, we do not yet have firefighters in that post, given the short time that has elapsed, who meet the conditions for carrying out the duties of commander. Recently we had a fire in the area near the outpost. The people who were waiting for the fire department were worried and were surprised that the outpost was not allowed to drive out. In the media, there's been a lot of fuss about the incident. There has also been a lot to do in the city council of Neerpelt. Your cabinet has informed us that a temporary solution to the problem could consist in acting as firefighters at a higher level. In addition, there is a transitional measure, which expires on 7 December 2015. Until then, corporals with the license sergeant can act as commanding officer. We use this measure in our area to put men who meet the conditions on hold in the new post, so that the stationed pump can still leave quickly and adequately with the rushed firefighters. Minister, I would have liked to hear from you the following. Firstly, is there a legal basis for the appointment of people in an acting position without fulfilling any condition? If so, are there any directives on time limits and conditions for filling in this function? Without these directives, any post without trained personnel could still be used in an unlimited manner. Secondly, the transitional measure to which I referred expires on 7 December 2015. What will happen after that? Has a solution been worked out for that problem? Thirdly, by when do you expect the royal decree governing training to appear? Will the remaining deadline until 7 December 2015 not be too short for men to be promoted in all areas in accordance with the new provisions?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic209x.u24	The issue of firefighter training and administrative and financial compensation orders was detailed during the exchange of views on the reform of the rescue services at the Commission meeting on 11 March. In summary, the level of training will be greatly increased, both for professional firefighters and volunteers. In addition, account is also taken of the commitment made in the government agreement to allow volunteer firefighters to combine their training with their main profession, family and social life. Training for cadet firefighters under the age of 18 is also formalized. More generally, the number of hours of practical training is increased for all levels. It is very important that our firefighters have enough hours of practice during their training, for their safety and for the safety of citizens. Administrative status adjustments reflect the returns we receive from the land. These are major or minor adjustments such as the introduction of the six-month waiting period between the federal certificate of fitness tests or the removal of the requirement to publish job vacancies in all areas of the country. A number of items of financial status are also amended to take account of local practices, including the possibility of maintaining 100% treatment instead of 90% in the event of an accident at work and the possibility for the area to set a minimum benefit allowance for volunteer firefighters in excess of one hour's benefit. These draft royal decrees are drawn up in the greatest transparency and are the subject of a very wide consultation which exceeds the legal obligations in this field. For staff regulations, draft texts must be negotiated with trade unions and deliberated in the Council of Ministers. Regions must be involved in their development. In addition to these legal obligations, an informal prior consultation was held with trade unions, fire brigades and the Unions of the cities and municipalities of Flanders, Wallonia and Brussels. The strike notice filed by a trade union organization is not the result of a conflict between the firefighters and the federal government, but rather between this trade union organization and several relief areas that do not fulfil all their obligations as employers. This trade union organization denounces, among other things, the non-compliance with the law establishing the labour regulations, the Code of Welfare at Work or the statutory provisions relating to acquired rights. Two weeks ago, I met a trade union delegation. I have offered them to involve my services as mediators to the zonal authorities, so that we can find ways of resolving them. When problems arise between employers and employees, the unions ask us to act as mediators. Then we try to solve the problems. This reorganization will be useful as there will now be 34 employers with obligations to their employees. That is the basis of the reform. Mr Vanvelthoven, the Royal Decree of 10 November 2012 laying down the minimum conditions for the fastest adequate assistance and the adequate resources, provides as a temporary transitional measure that, in the absence of an available petty officer, the petty officer in a vehicle can indeed be replaced by a corporal with an equivalent level of training. This is a royal decree of 2012. This transitional measure will indeed end on 7 December 2015. From that date on, if necessary, an Acting Sergeant may be employed. In principle, however, this should not be necessary. The fire services have had three years to establish themselves as a rule and to provide sufficient staff. For this purpose, among other things, federal subsidies to the prezones could be used. If it turns out that a zone has problems, one can work by turning on an acting sergeant. This so-called exercise of higher positions is regulated by the Royal Decree which governs the administrative status of firefighters. It goes without saying that the appointment of this acting sergeant must comply with all the conditions and rules laid down in the administrative statute. Let me list these terms. Firstly, there must be an urgent need to appoint an acting sergeant. It's not enough that there's a position of sergeant vacant. Secondly, in order to be appointed acting sergeant, one must meet the necessary conditions to be appointed as sergeant. An exception may be made only if no such staff member is available. Thirdly, the procedure for granting the employment must be used. Fourthly, the staff member who is most suitable, taking into account the job description, should be chosen. Fifthly, the appointment shall be made by the Board on the basis of a reasoned proposal by the commander. Finally, the appearance of the new KB regarding the training of firefighters is to be expected by the end of this year. Promotion procedures may be initiated from the date of entry into force of this Decision.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic209x.u25	Minister, thank you for this very comprehensive answer. Do you have any idea how to schedule your training orders?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic209x.u26	This is reflected in the answer to Mr Vanvelthoven. It will be done before the end of the year.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic209x.u27	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Mr President, I should like to take this opportunity to raise my question. 5381 to be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic209x.u28	Minister, just a month ago, the press reported that several bailiffs in the Netherlands received so-called powder letters. They contain the message that at the opening of the letter radioactive material is released and that the reader would still have two months to live. The letters were all signed by ISIS. Threats were also made against the bailiffs' families. Several of them indicated that they had already received threatening letters in the past with death threats from extremist angles. Doorkeepers face aggression and violence every day, and threats are becoming increasingly violent and aggressive. Hence my logical questions. Are there cases in Belgium known of so-called powder letters addressed to our bailiffs? If so, is there an increasing trend to be observed in Belgium? Is this about threatening letters coming from extremist quarters? Should the bailiffs take such threatening letters seriously? How are they supported in this?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic209x.u29	Mr Metsu, the Central Department of Terrorism of the Executive Board of the Federal Judicial Police has no specific information on powder letters to bailiffs. The general national database ANG of the integrated police allows the investigation of certain facts and crimes. The threat to a person may, inter alia, occur with a view to committing a theft, theft by force or threat, in the context of extra or intra-family violence and in the context of terrorism. However, it is impossible for any threat to ascertain whether the victim is a bailiff and whether or not the threat occurred by letter. So we do inventory crimes under threat, but details that show that this is a threat by letter or directed to bailiffs cannot be taken out of the database ANG. There may be threats by letter, telephone, verbal, in the vicinity of the victim. As a result, it is not possible for the police to determine the number of threatening letters received by bailiffs. As the data are not available, it is therefore virtually impossible to establish a trend. Since it is not possible to determine the number of threatening letters, it is also impossible to indicate whether there is a growing number coming from extremist angles. It should be pointed out that the term extremist angle is rather a subjective concept. Facts abroad can be followed in our country. That has already happened in the past. We must therefore be vigilant. Our police and security forces are. According to information collected from the OCAD, there is neither evidence nor information on possible threats from bailiffs from extremists. The facts in the Netherlands seem to have a local problem. They seem to have no consequences for our country. The OCAD only knew of facts of vandalism in March 2012 which is thus a long time ago from a blinded door of a court bailiff's office in Saint-Gillis. Those facts were probably committed by anarchists. In an anarchist magazine that action was claimed and anarchists were invited to undertake such actions. Also, the terrorist threat level is still determined by the OCAD at level 3 and thus topical for all target groups from extremist angle in Belgium. In addition, a procedure has been developed by the General Directorate for Crisis Centre to coordinate various departments to intervene in such a situation of powder letters. That procedure came after the events of 11 September 2001, in which the United States faced a wave of consignments containing anthrax. In the same period Belgium was confronted with the same phenomenon. The procedure was worked out in consultation with all competent authorities, namely the General Directorate Crisis Centre, the Federal Police, the Federal Office, Civil Security, the Ministry of Defence and the FPS Public Health. That procedure shall, as it should be, be regularly updated.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic209x.u30	Minister, I think it has actually started out as a local problem in the Netherlands, because a bailiff was being dealt with there, because he threatened to sell a mosque that still had unpaid invoices. It was seen as a punishment from Allah, because the man would take money and goods from the poor. The problem now seems to be getting a bit out of the Netherlands, hence my fear and fear that it would also cross national borders. I will ask the umbrella organization of the bailiffs if she knows about it or if she can provide additional information.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic209x.u31	Debates of the European Parliament 5027 by Mr Degroote has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic209x.u32	Mr Minister, this question was put in writing a long time ago, but it was not answered. As a result, I am obliged to put them orally. The National Safety Plan identifies waste management fraud as a priority. We have recently received reports that waste crime would continue to increase in recent years. In the meantime, we also hear that tackling waste fraud at the federal level would come under pressure from a specific cell, which I now add and which I think is the subject of other questions. Firstly, how often has a director-coordinator coordinated an action between inspection services and local police and federal police, broken down by judicial district for the period 2012 to now? You will understand that my questions are specific questions, which are normally submitted in writing, but I am now obliged to list them all nicely. Secondly, for which judicial districts is this priority effectively translated into a project? How many arrondissements didn't take this as a priority? Thirdly, how many investigations were conducted by the federal judicial police on this priority, broken down by judicial district, for the period 2012 to now? Fourthly, how many police officers at the district level have been trained by police schools to detect waste management fraud or to carry out investigations in a quality manner? Fifthly, how many people are now responsible at the central level for monitoring waste management fraud? Sixthly, how many people does the Federal Police Executive Committee provide for the design of an organic table that has been sent to you and split up for the central level and the devolved level, please per district, for the fight against fraud in the field of waste management in the future? Apparently, that cell is under pressure. Seventh, are you consulting with the Regions to deal with environmental fraud in the future? If so, what are the results of this consultation? If not, why not and when will that happen? Finally, how many times has the Federal Police Council reported to the Minister of the Interior on how the federal police carry out its task of combating waste management fraud?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic209x.u33	Mr. Chairman, Minister, I have asked you earlier about the plans to decentralize or dismantle the Central Office for Combating Economic and Financial Crime (OECDFO) and the Federal Computer Crime Unit (FCCU), which are active in financial crime and computer crime. Information published in Le Soir on Friday 26 June suggests that the federal environmental crime unit would also be threatened by your plans to restructure the federal police. This has not failed to elicit the reaction of the main stakeholders as well as various observers who stress the importance of the coordinating role of the Federal Police Environment Central Service and its added value, in particular with regard to the development of environmental crime, called "crime of the future". Consider international or national waste traffic, the use of materials hazardous to health or the environment. These are very technical subjects, which require specialisation of resources and coordination at the international level. Minister, how many people do they currently work in the Federal Police Environment Central Service? How has this workforce evolved over the past five years? What are the tasks currently carried out by this service? Has a recent evaluation of her work been completed? By whom? What were the main conclusions? Do you confirm the intention, as part of the restructuring of the police services, to eliminate this service? If so, what would justify the disappearance? Have you agreed on this with your colleague in charge of the environment at the federal level, Mrs Marghem, as well as with the regional administrations also concerned? What has been the result of these consultations? What will be put in place to enhance the effectiveness and capacity of this important service?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic209x.u34	Mr. Chairman, Minister, Le Soir newspaper revealed on June 26 that the federal police's Central Environment Service would be in the process of being abolished. This service is particularly active in the fight against international trafficking in waste, trafficking in protected species and the fight against illegal possession and transport of radioactive waste. This central service compiles data, compiles indicators, links with other cases, in Belgium or abroad, and conducts its own investigations. And yet, after 20 years of existence, the Environnement service would go to the trap! I am very concerned that the federal government has decided to neglect the fight against international trafficking in waste or protected species. While this type of crime is growing, the federal government should, on the contrary, make it a priority. Minister, do you confirm this information about the removal of the Central Environment Service? If so, how do you envisage the continuation of this service in the field? Should we fear, as with other services, that it will be fully decentralised at the level of judicial districts, at the risk of the disappearance of valuable expertise at the cross-cutting level? Do you confirm that the federal administration of the Environment has received a letter indicating the end of police support for the fight against trafficking in protected species and, as of August 1, 2015?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic209x.u35	Mr President, I will answer the three questions on the Environment Service of the federal police and the fight against waste fraud together. A number of questions relate to the past and refer to the previous National Security Plan 2012-2015. A number of questions relate to the future. There are several factors involved, in particular the optimisation of the federal police, the discussion on the new organic table and the identification of priorities in the Integrated Security Framework Paper, as well as the new National Security Plan for the Integrated Police in general and the Federal Police in particular. A number of cases therefore concern past facts, some others have not yet been decided. I shall try to make things as clear as possible. I will deal with the three lists of questions consecutively, starting with Mr Van Hecke's questions. Your questions relate in particular to the ongoing National Safety Plan 2012-2015 regarding the management of waste fraud. First of all, I should like to apologise, Mr Van Hecke, because you are right to have submitted the question in writing. We're trying to keep up. That will work, but this question has indeed remained unanswered for a long time. You are therefore right to have submitted them in writing. My answer contains a series of tables. I'll give it to you so we can stay a little to the point. You first asked for the figures of the number of actions coordinated by the DirCos of the federal police. For the period requested they were as follows: in Dinant 13, in Eupen 6, in Kortrijk 1, in Liège 7, in Mechelen 3, in Bergen 1, in Namur 34 and in Tournai 1. As far as your second question is concerned, for the period 2012 until the reform of justice, none of the judicially devolved executives have included the phenomenon of waste fraud as a priority. Since the entry into force of the Law of 1 December 2013 to reform the judicial districts, there have been 14 judicially devolved executives in 12 arrondissements. None of these newly formed judicial districts have effectively included the phenomenon of waste fraud as a priority. Furthermore, no judicially devolved management has developed a specific waste fraud project. As the following figures show, the judicial files are followed up in a reactive manner. A project-based approach was not possible within the current National Security Plan because of the multitude of priorities, the deficit the federal police have been facing for years and the efforts the government is demanding in other areas such as terrorism and radicalism. As for your third question, I have the table showing how many investigations each year, from 2012 to 2015, were conducted by the federal police, on the one hand, initiated by the Central Environment Service, on the other hand, with the Central Environment Service in a supportive, coordinating and expertise-giving role. This is also done for the benefit of the local police and the investigations carried out there, which are not included in the table below. It is not just the investigations conducted by the federal police and not in support of the local police. I have here the whole table for each arrondissement spread over every year. I'll give you the table in a minute. In reply to your fourth question on training, I can inform you that various training courses on the subject are provided by police schools for the benefit of the members of both federal and local police. For the last four years, the table below shows the number of staff who took one or more of these training courses. It concerns 199 staff in 2011, 157 in 2012, 260 in 2013 and 177 in 2014. How many people are responsible for the follow-up of fraud at the central level? The current organic table, the so renowned O2ter, provides eight persons for the Directorate for Crime Against Goods (DJB): a Chief of Service, a Commissioner member, four detectives, an administrative officer and a strategic analyst. They are therefore six persons for the operational framework and two persons for the administrative and logistical framework. Since 1 October 2014, the Environment Service of the DJB Executive Board has been included in the newly created Central Executive Board for the fight against serious and organised crime. In reply to your sixth question, namely how many people the federal police management committee provides for, I can tell you that the proposals for the future organizational table OT3 have meanwhile been submitted to the social partners. However, no formal decision has yet been taken in a regulatory text. The OT3 will be the subject of a royal decision. That OT3 involves changes to both the devolved and the federal level. However, I cannot give you the figures yet. Were consultations also held with the Regions? With the relevant ministers at the level of the various Länder, there has been no specific consultation on waste fraud. However, my fellow Minister for Justice and myself have started work on the Integrated Security Framework Paper. Not only the Länder but also the other actors in the safety chain are involved. The aim is to define together the phenomena for which we want an integrated and integrated approach in the safety chain. The National Security Plan, which is the police plan for the federal and integrated police, will then take this into account. Once these priorities have been set for the framework paper in consultation with the Länder, consultation with the relevant Land Ministers and administrations will certainly take place on the basis of the held-up phenomena. The aim is to work on this in autumn 2015. Your last question was about the reporting by the federal police council. The Federal Police Council is currently evaluating the current 2012-2015 Security Plan with a view to advising both ministers on this plan. This opinion can be expected by mid-July 2015. It is an opinion that will deal with the National Security Plan in its entirety. The waste management issue is not the subject of a separate opinion of the Federal Police Council. Mr Gilkinet, as far as staffing is concerned, the organic table 2ter provided for six PAHOs and two Calogs, but at present there are five members of the operational framework and two members of the administrative and logistical framework, given the retirement of one person this year. As for the tasks currently carried out, this central unit, like other central units, plays a role in the image of the phenomenon, inter alia by developing strategic analyses on the latter, as well as in research and development, operational support, operational coordination and programme work. This service does not carry out autonomous investigations. These are carried out at the level of boroughs or police areas. In addition, in 2012, the P Committee conducted a survey of the work of central services, but the initial methodology was not followed until the end. This was a case study with one or more interviews with the Director General, but key people in the various departments were never seen or heard. In addition, this control survey never led to a comprehensive study of individual services. For the rest, no evaluation or audit has been carried out. There is therefore no conclusion at this level. As Minister of the Interior and in agreement with the Minister of Justice, I have voted for the reduction of priorities in the area of comprehensive security. For the National Security Plan (NSP) 2012-2015, there are 17 program files developed. This is far too much and unmanageable for the police. For the next NSP, we want to limit the number of priorities. Not everything can be given priority, otherwise there is no more priority. As mentioned above, the choice of priorities will be determined with the federated entities. For each programme in the future SNP, a team of nine will be set up within DG SOC (7 operational and 2 Calog). Currently, it is not possible to list the priorities for the 2016-2019 PNS. The police are preparing the National Police Security Image (IPNS) 2015, which will make it possible, among other things, to decide which priority phenomena will be treated in 2016-2019. In addition, consultation with federated entities is under way. Given our current information position, however, it is very likely that the service will disappear. As stated in the reply to Mr. Van Hecke, investigations by the PJF and local police are always carried out except for priorities identified in security or police plans. Environmental investigations are therefore an integral part of the regular work of the police. The process of scanning and analysing the priorities of the full security framework note is under way. There is general consultation with the federated entities. This will depend on the priorities chosen. If they are, the consultation with all the actors in the security chain involved in this phenomenon, including the federated entities, will be scheduled in autumn 2015. The federal police are in the middle of the process of optimisation. Discussions on TO3 are also ongoing. In addition, the priorities for the police, through the comprehensive security framework note and the National Security Plan, are also being developed. In this context, I do not wish to increase efficiency or commit additional resources to this service. I come to your questions, Mr. Delannois. For your first question, I refer you to my answer to Mr Gilkinet. Secondly, with regard to all services and/or programmes that will disappear due to the optimisation and priority choices in terms of security, a new working method will be developed in consultation with the local police, the judiciary and partners. It is possible that some people will have to join a borough where their expertise can bear fruit in environmental fraud cases. It is also possible that these agents may request another position within DG SOC, where the Environment Service is currently located. For your third question, working together was one of the cross-cutting objectives in the Commissioner General's mission letter. This is much more than a dialogue based on different interests, as it is a matter of warning the partners so that they can prepare for the decisions taken by the police. With this in mind, the Environment department sent a letter to the SPF Environnement to warn it as soon as possible of the loss of expertise caused by the retirement of the person assigned to investigations into trafficking in protected species. Given the project, it is very unlikely to hire a new expert. The letter was more than clear about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic209x.u36	Thank you for the answer. I'll take a closer look at the numbers. I have two comments to make. First, there is no or hardly any consultation with the Regions. That is not a good thing because a lot of these environmental materials are relevant there and there are many institutions there too. I therefore believe that this should certainly be a focus for the future. If I have understood your answer correctly, that future certainly does not look bright. After all, you indicate that this service is likely to disappear. That's why I'd like to ask you to think very carefully about it. After all, we may have a lot of plans about rationalization and so on, but the operation of that cell also takes place in support of local police forces, prosecutors, federal police, spread across the country, with a huge network and expertise. There are contacts with Interpol, with foreign colleagues, where a huge amount of information is being obtained. It is precisely international waste fraud or international environmental crime. My great fear is that if this central coordination disappears, all responsibility will be shared between local and federal police throughout the country. That expertise will disappear. That will be the end of the very thorough and efficient work that is now being done by that cell. I do not know who you are advising on this, but I would ask you to look at it thoroughly. Also see if it's worth saving on those nine people in that cell. You also link this to the priorities. I understand that we should not have 20 or 30 priorities, and I agree with that. But it is not because a certain phenomenon is no longer a priority, that we should therefore abolish a coordination cell within the federal police. You can say that it is not the highest priority now, but we retain it because it is very useful and efficient in terms of content for our fight. So I do not see why you are making the link between being on the priority list or not and phasing out that central support. In my view, you are looking more closely at how to separate the two from each other in order to keep an efficient fight against cross-border environmental crime at a sound level.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic209x.u37	Mr. Minister of the Interior, I have to tell you my surprise, I thought that the information I had read could not be true, and I see that every time I ask you about your plan to reorganize the police, it goes in the same direction. It is a form of dismantling the central police services in the various areas I mentioned earlier. It's very serious; it's like a 30-year leap back from the fight against environmental crime in this case. I quote: "It is very likely that the service will disappear, I do not want to increase the effectiveness of services to combat environmental crime." It is as if you were blind, alongside other phenomena that must also be combated, to the reality of what environmental crime is, to its impact on our environment, on the health of our fellow citizens. I think it's simply unacceptable. Certainly, in any area, priorities need to be chosen, but I do not imagine that, beyond a few key priorities, environmental policing missions are no longer coordinated at the federal level. We would no longer have any interlocutors for the police services of foreign countries. We know that waste fraud is often international. There would no longer be any federal expertise, no coordination, no mission of foresight, research and development, it's simply unimaginable! I cannot imagine that a national central service in any country in Europe will not provide itself with the means of coordination in the field of environmental safety. The only hope I have is this consultation with the federated entities. I hope that in this context the ministers concerned will tell you how important they are to this issue, and as in the files relating to OECDFO and the FCCU, I will ask the Prime Minister whether this is indeed his intention. She seems unimaginable to me. I believe that the Minister of the Environment must also take up this matter and not let you decide on the dismantling of the federal environmental police alone.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic209x.u38	Minister, you finished by saying that your letter was more than correct; I can assure you that in my question I never questioned the correction of your letter. On the other hand, I join my two colleagues in being overly worried. I understand that we need priorities, I understand that not everything can be one, but I think that this sector, environmental crime, cannot be considered a priority. In another life, I had a hat as president of an IPLALE intercommunal, which worked in the treatment of waste in particular. I can assure you that in the sector we were, at that level, a whole series of people who made sure that we did not go from green to orange and from orange to red, but we were nevertheless dealing with a whole series of people who are not just choir children. I think that's really a very bad signal that we can give this sector. I am, as you know, from the region of Tournai, I am bordering cross-border, and indeed I think it is a very bad signal. In my question, I also referred to trafficking in protected species. I invite you to come to the region, especially to visit Pairi Daïza Park, where a series of educational documents are made available concerning this trafficking of protected species. We can see in concrete terms what each other can do in this bad play. And in order not to make it a community problem, if you invite me to visit Antwerp Zoo, I will come with pleasure. That said, it's a very bad signal we're giving. That's all the underworld was waiting for!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic209x.u39	Six members of the extreme right-wing Nation group violently assaulted a homeless place from Luxembourg to Ixelles and mistreated him with cobblestones and bottles. The victim was reportedly seriously injured. On the Monday before the attack, the same group attacked demonstrators of African origin. In a video that we see on social networks, we could hear the racist statements made by these far-right militants visibly wanting to get rid of them. The police intervened but did not make any arrests. Undocumented people gather every Monday on Rue de la Loi and Place du Luxembourg to ask for their regularization and protest against the government's asylum policy. The Nation movement has therefore decided to organise every Monday, place du Luxembourg, an action called the "Lundis of legality" aimed at these demonstrations of undocumented people. Ecolo-Groen strongly condemns these actions carried out by the far right and we are of course thinking of all the victims they make. As a result of these actions, I wanted to ask you the following questions. What actions does the police intend to take to put an end to these "mondays of legality"? Are they still taking place, as we are talking about events of more or less a month ago. Secondly, is this extreme right-wing group specifically monitored by law enforcement forces in order to prevent its actions in the future? Thirdly, is there a specific investigation by the P Committee or the General Inspectorate into the intervention of the law enforcement agencies in relation to the actions of the Nation Group? Indeed, the press had, at one point, reported that there was an apparent slowness to react.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic209x.u40	Mr Vanden Burre, thank you for your question. Despite the non-authorisation of the rallies of this groupuscule and the violence committed by its members in the territory of the city of Brussels and the municipality of Ixelles, the administrative authorities have called for the police to be extremely vigilant in order to guarantee the rapid intervention of its forces with a view to the immediate dislocation of this demonstration, in particular through administrative arrests. As far as your second question is concerned, yes, vigilance has been requested by the administrative authorities. An investigation was investigated, including whether the organization was not covered by the 1934 law prohibiting private militias. A report was drawn up by the Brussels police and forwarded to the King's prosecutor. And lately, after verification, it follows that no investigation is under way either at the General Inspectorate of the Police or at Committee P.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic209x.u41	Thank you for your answers, Minister. We will remain particularly attentive for every Monday to come and also in coordination with the Ecolo group in the commune of Ixelles since he also asked the college on this point. This will be done, if necessary, in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic209x.u42	Debates of the European Parliament 5097 by Mrs Dierick will be converted into a written question. The Minister has informed us that he has until about 16:15. We shall now deal with the last two merged questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic209x.u43	Mr President, Minister, since 2013, the data retention law regulates storage and access to communication data. This law was the transposition of a European directive following the attacks in London and Madrid in 2006, with the aim of combating terrorism and serious crime. The data retention law requires telecom companies to keep records of electronic communications for at least one year. Police and security services may request that information in the context of an investigation. The Constitutional Court now finds that the law is an unlawful breach of privacy. This follows the judgment of the European Court of Justice of last year, which already destroyed the European directive at the time. The disappearance of this law will also affect the police. After all, a lot of crime is linked to electronic communication. Minister, what are the concrete consequences for the police of declaring this data retention law null and void? Will you be involved in the discussions on any new law or other possible solutions? Are there any implications for the application of the law of 18 March 2014 on police information management?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic209x.u44	Mr President, Minister, my question is entirely in line with Mr Demon's concerns. So let me hijack his introduction and suddenly move on to my question. Minister, how many and what attacks have been prevented since your arrival by intercepting data via data retention? What influence do you consider the annulment of the data retention law to have on the capture and prosecution of terrorists and possibly on the prevention of attacks? What could be the impact of the suspension of this law on tracking down Syrian fighters or radicalised young people?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic209x.u45	Mr President, I will answer Mr Metsu's first question separately. The answer to his other questions is included in the answer to Mr Demon's questions. As regards Mr Demon's first two questions, my colleague Minister Geens, as the Minister responsible for this matter, has already given a comprehensive answer to the questions on the consequences of the judgment of the Constitutional Court. In short, this means that after the destruction of the data retention law we fall back on the old telecom law in which the principle of data retention was already introduced by operators. In addition, operators may decide to retain data for billing and marketing purposes. Several articles of the Code of Criminal Procedure relating to the recovery of these data by a magistrate shall also remain in force. In principle, therefore, police forces can continue to work as previously, although certain uncertainties remain, in particular as regards the retention period and the nature of the data retained. These matters need to be cleared up as soon as possible in order to avoid compromising police and intelligence investigations. The rapid establishment of a new legal framework is therefore crucial. The Minister of Justice has already taken the initiative to bring together the parties involved, including my services, and to seek a solution. As regards your third question, the law of 18 March 2014 on police information management has a different scope than the data retention law. The above-mentioned law deals with internal police information management and not with information collected and managed by third parties. Therefore, the conclusions drawn by the Constitutional Court from the Data Retention Act do not directly apply to the Law of 18 March 2014. Mr Metsu, I cannot answer the question of how many attacks were thwarted by data obtained on the basis of the data retention law. However, I can assure you that today's analysis of telephone and internet data is essential for virtually any investigation conducted by our police services, including terrorist files. If you are talking about capturing, it must be clear that the data retention law does not therefore regulate the retention of certain metadata services by the telecom operators. Capturing or intercepting content is not covered by the Data Retention Act.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic209x.u46	Mr Minister, everything is clear to me, for which I am grateful.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic209x.u47	Questions Nos 5245 by Mr Van Hecke, 5300 and 5382 by Mr Degroote, 5308 by Mrs Jadin, 5381 by Mr Vanvelthoven and 5402 by Mr Deseyn are converted into written questions.
