ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic050x.u1	Minister, at the beginning of this first meeting I would like to wish you the best on behalf of the committee, good health and much prosperity. However, the events in Paris have undoubtedly already ruined your agenda, which means that you arrived a little later. I understand that you wish to speak on this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic050x.u2	Thank you, Mr President. I can imagine that the members of the Committee on the Interior, regardless of the agenda, are interested in the measures we will take following the terrible attack in Paris. At the moment, since 3 p.m., there is a meeting of the Information and Security Committee, which includes all the specialised services and which also includes representatives of the Home Office and the Prime Minister's Cabinets, in order to gather all the information and to monitor the situation from time to time. According to current information, the threat level is not increased in Belgium. You know that we are now permanently in a threat level 2. This will not be increased for the time being, but we will monitor the situation at any time and, if necessary, the level of threat will of course be increased. Although nothing is fixed, I might be called away from this committee in the light of the circumstances. Please excuse me in advance. At present, however, there are no agreements that could interfere with the functioning of this committee. It is clear that we are following the situation from minute to minute.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic050x.u3	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic050x.u4	Mr President, if the minister were retained by other duties, we would understand very well that he cannot attend the committee meeting. If he were to tell us that he had to leave us to take on other priorities, we would respect that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic050x.u5	The information and security committee brings together public servants and cabinet members, but not the minister. Nevertheless, it may be necessary for me to join the meeting. I think everyone will understand that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic050x.u6	If you are called away, we have the full understanding that you are fulfilling your duty elsewhere. In the meantime, we will proceed to the order of the day.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic050x.u7	Mr President, Minister, it may be a little strange to have to answer questions about alcohol controls in these circumstances, but I think it is a good thing that Parliament continues to take up and play its democratic role. That is why it is right that we should be able to put our questions to you. My questions date from some time ago, but I think they're important enough to put them before you. The government agreement contains an important passage on traffic enforcement and specifically on the targets set out in relation to the number of alcohol controls. Belgium is still lagging behind in the field of driving under the influence. One in three or one in four, depending on the studies, of the fatal accidents is still caused by alcohol in traffic. Additional efforts, including enforcement, are certainly needed. From an earlier response from the previous government, I learned that the federal police are pursuing the long-term goal of achieving one in three or 2.1 million breath tests. This objective was divided between the federal police and the local police, with an intermediate objective of 1.2 million alcohol controls. That is more than half the ultimate objective. For the federal police, this intermediate target translated into 240 000 breath tests per year, an objective that was well achieved in 2013. Unfortunately, today we cannot verify whether the local police also achieves the remaining part, namely 960,000 checks. A non-mandatory reference framework has been established per zone. However, there is no obligation to report to a higher government. Only during the current period with the PDO campaign are the checks carried out by the local police kept. There are no good figures out there. This is problematic in order to be able to verify numerical targets. The reason for this gap would be the double manual importation of the tested, which would be an overly cumbersome administrative procedure. The FPS Mobility planned an initiative to work out a one-time concept with the police and the Justice Department, so that a registration of the number of decreased controls by the local police would be possible. This is an important element if we want to implement the coalition agreement and follow the numerical objective. Mr Minister, from 2015 onwards, is the objective of the State General, which is to control 2.1 million drivers for driving under the influence of alcohol, effectively applied, in line with the government agreement, or will a roadmap be drawn up for this during the legislature? What concrete steps will be taken and when will this objective be planned? Thirdly, what resources will you make available for this? Will the use of effective for the seventh basic functionality of the local police, today 8 %, need to be increased or can this be increased within the existing resources? Fourthly, do you recognise the importance of recording the number of checks decreased by local police in the light of a well-founded road safety policy? How and against when do you plan to get a full registration? Fifthly, what is the state of play in the consultations with a view to the one-off view? Finally, how will you ensure that not only the quantitative objective is achieved, but also that the quality of controls is guaranteed? I'm talking about the focus on risky places and moments.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic050x.u8	Mr Van den Bergh, I will deal with the first three elements of your question together. The ambition in this area is set out in the coalition agreement; we will maintain it and, of course, try to achieve it. You're asking about the roadmap. In the BOB campaign we have now used the sampler for the first time. The sampler allows a pre-check. Only when there is an indication of excessive alcohol consumption will a real breath test be carried out. This should make it possible to carry out many more tests within the same timeframe. I do not yet have the report which makes it clear how many more tests this has led to. Based on the findings of the latest campaign using the sampler, I will make a roadmap to achieve 2.1 million alcohol controls. We must look at the possibilities offered by the new technology. The roadmap will be implemented, but only after an analysis of the use of the sampler and its impact on the number of checks. Your fourth question concerns the importance of recording the number of checks. I fully support the importance of recording the number of alcohol controls that are also taken away by the local police. Getting that information will help to improve road safety policy. After all, the chain is only as strong as the weakest link. There are areas that do their job well, but if we do not have a view of all the areas, then we have no idea of the overall road safety policy. Today, the information of the federal police is fully communicated and of approximately 140 police zones on a regular basis. These are 2013 figures. I have not yet been able to make the analysis for 2014, because all the figures have not yet arrived. The figures shall be communicated on a regular basis to the computer services of the federal police. Recording the information does not require duplication, but additional work by the police. Since the information was not previously registered, it is not a double but new work. Within the integrated police, therefore, the initiative was taken to purchase new breathing appliances that allow a one-off registration. The new breathing devices will be able to automatically transmit all data to ISLP, an integrated system of local police, which will allow full registration. Normally, this project should start in the course of 2015, so that we already have the data in an automated way at the 2015 end-of-year checks. I come to your fifth question, on the one-off concept. The consultation on the one-off concept was recently launched. Focusing on places of risk and moments of risk remains a competence of the Chiefs of Staff, who adapt their controls to the policies set out in the zonal action plan. So I have no direct influence on that. However, they are sensitised to act at places and times of risk behaviour and where this is possible for practical reasons and in safe conditions for police personnel. So we can sensitise and insist on it, we can also provide support from the federal police, but it is actually the zonal security plan that determines how the resources are used.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic050x.u9	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. It offers a lot of perspectives which, of course, will have to be followed up and which will also be followed up. By the end of the year, we will probably have a better view of the possibilities offered by registration and of the possibilities offered by the sampling apparatus, for which the necessary measures were taken in the previous legislature to enable them to be used effectively. I look forward with you to its impact on the number of checks during the ongoing PDO campaign.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic050x.u10	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, the legislation on text messages to emergency services dates back a number of years ago. During the previous parliamentary term, I easily put a dozen questions to Mrs Milquet. Implementations and pilot projects have always been envisaged, but today it is not easy or workable to text emergency services, especially by deaf people and hearing impaired people. That is why I would like to put the question to you. How can you get the law, which should have been implemented on the ground for a long time, operational as soon as possible? The question dates back to two months ago, but I happened to read in last week's Telecontact digital newsletter that a definitive introduction of this new service would be achieved in the first quarter of this year. Meanwhile, another non-profit organisation would have already made an application via iPhone, i112, which could conveniently send text messages to the emergency services, to which the GPS position is immediately linked and so on. I think there is a lot going on, but I would like to ask you very specifically what the situation is with regard to the dossier. When will this be effective? I have always regretted that people only wanted to allow the function of texting emergency services for people who would be registered on a list. I think that anno 2015 is very unnecessary. Is this only for a limited target group or could it become a function for everyone to reach emergency services in an easy way? So much for the summary of the questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic050x.u11	Mr President, I think that question No. Mr Metsu's 1025 is almost identical and deals with at least the same subject. Either he asks his question now, or I give the same answer twice. That wouldn't make any sense.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic050x.u12	The question does indeed deal with the same subject, but it is probably not merged because of carelessness.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic050x.u13	Mr President, Minister, I believe that Mr Van den Bergh has outlined the subject well. He has asked a lot of questions about it in the past. Our country has more than four hundred thousand deaf and hard of hearing. I have the following questions. What is the current status of the emergency call system for deaf and hearing impaired by SMS? What were the results of the pilot project to be launched by the previous Minister of the Interior? When does the Minister intend to further develop and roll out this project throughout the country?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic050x.u14	Colleagues, initially it was intended to start with text messages for deaf, hearing impaired and speech impaired people in the summer of 2014. Because the government was in current business then, the project was delayed. The emergency power plants that work with the CAD-ASTRID technology are technically ready to handle SMS messages, but the Council of Ministers only approved the dossier at the end of September 2014 that allows SMS messages to be processed in emergency power stations that work with CityGIS. You know that by integrating 100, 101 and 112 these two different technologies are used. The necessary technical solutions are currently being implemented. The target date is January 15th, so next week. Then all emergency power stations will be able to receive 112/100 text messages and all CICs. Deaf, hearing impaired people and people with a speech problem will be able to reach the emergency centers via SMS in a first phase on specific numbers, i.e. not 112, 100 and 101. We need to test the speed with which emergency calls are handled by SMS. If necessary, the processing procedure will be adjusted. We will therefore first examine the impact on the work volume of the operators and the calltakers. In a second phase, text messages will be opened on ordinary emergency numbers, but this will be linked to compulsory registration. Such registration should ensure that priority is given to helping citizens who state that they prefer to contact 112/100 emergency power stations and the CICs via SMS rather than through an ordinary voice call. In other words, their text will be given the same priority as a telephone call. This does not mean that other citizens cannot use text messages. They can, but their text message will be treated with a lower priority. The text messages of the registered numbers of deaf and hearing impaired are given the same priority as telephone calls; however, text messages from others will be treated with a lower priority. This should prevent SMS calls to emergency power stations becoming a rule rather than an exception. After all, a number of text messages would be received at the same time, and some emergency calls would be lost. After all, dealing with an emergency call via SMS takes much more time than a normal telephone call. Telephone treatment is much faster than treating a text message. That is the difference between oral and written. Moreover, one third of all calls that already arrive in the aid centres are improper calls, in other words not genuine emergency calls. If that phenomenon were to continue in the text messages, the rapid handling of emergency calls, and hence the rapid dispatch of emergency services, would become problematic. It is a matter of good management to be able to deal with the right priorities and matters as quickly as possible. It is obvious that deaf people and hearing impaired people should be given the same priority, but other people who want to use text messages are given a lower priority because the processing time is too long. It is an unnecessary use of text messages when it comes to people who can call in a normal way because their treatment takes much more time.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic050x.u15	Mr President, Minister, thank you for the concrete and very good news of 15 January. I think this is very positive, after all these years of work. It was also about time that it could become operational, although it happens in two phases with some specific songs first, but I think that is all bridgeable. As for the use of text 112 by the group of about four hundred thousand deaf and hearing impaired and by others, I remain left with mixed feelings. I understand the concern about improper use and that an oral call for emergency services is easier to handle than a text message, but in some cases people in need may be able to text more easily than call if the reception is not good and send a text message still succeed. I am left with mixed feelings, but I assume that this can still be reviewed after an evaluation period.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic050x.u16	Mr President, Minister, 15 January is really short notice, but it is happy news. My only question is whether these specific numbers can and will be made available to the target group in question via the standard channels.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic050x.u17	This question has been addressed to the Minister of Energy, Environment and Sustainable Development, but it will be answered by the Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic050x.u18	Mr President, Minister, this issue was tabled a long time ago. However, I believe that the answer still deserves to be included in this committee's report, which is why I am going to develop it. This issue relates to staff budgets, operating budgets and investment budgets. It is intended to determine whether each time the measures taken in terms of savings correspond to the linear measures decided at the level of the government and whether they are also valid for the AFCN, whose situation is somewhat special. Minister, can you confirm that the AFCN will have to save 4% on its staff budgets in 2015, 6% in 2016, 8% in 2017, 10% in 2018 and 12% in 2019? If this is not the case, what is the extent of the savings to be achieved by the PSAN? How much do these savings represent in thousands of euros? Can you confirm that the AFCN will have to save 20% on its operating budgets in 2015, 22% in 2016, 24% in 2017, 26% in 2018 and 28% in 2019? If this is not the case, what is the extent of the savings to be achieved by the PSAN? How much do these savings represent in thousands of euros? Can you confirm that the AFCN will have to save on its investment budgets by 22% in 2015, 25% in 2016, 28% in 2017, 31% in 2018 and 33% in 2019? If this is not the case, what is the extent of the savings to be achieved by the PSAN? How much do these savings represent in thousands of euros?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic050x.u19	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Nollet, under the Act of March 16, 1954, the AFCN is a Type C public interest organization. As such, its budget is consolidated with that of the federal state. The Council of Ministers of 15 October 2014 defined the lines of strength of the budget for the period 2015-2019. With regard to the savings to be realized by public interest organizations, the notifications state: "These savings will be borne by the agencies that have them. This saving will, however, apply only to the share of the expenditure covered by the allocation granted to the public interest body or entity consolidated with the federal state in question and will be reduced by this allocation. Starting in 2015, public interest bodies and other entities consolidated with the federal government will close the year with a positive SEC balance, with the exception of CEN, Caisse nationale des calamités and Fonds RER. Where appropriate, a reasoned derogation may be submitted to the Minister for the Budget." The PSAN is funded by licence and authorization holders through a system of fees and charges. Since it does not perceive a public allocation, the linear savings referred to here do not apply to the PSAN. The AFCN budget for 2015, as approved by the Board of Directors on 24 October, has a positive balance of €442,000. The PSAN does not have a multi-year budget, but it has also committed to a balanced budget in the future. Finally, I would like to draw your attention to the government agreement which "guarantees sufficient funding for the activities of the AFCN". But the last sentence still needs to be put into practice.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic050x.u20	Mr President, I thank the minister for his very comprehensive answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic050x.u21	My question dates back to November 2014. At that time, the fire zones were prezones. In the meantime, they have started everywhere and have been given legal personality. Nevertheless, the staff remains left with a lot of questions. One of the problems that remains to be solved is the incompatibility of a different degree within the same fire zone. Someone who was previously active in his own congregation as a petty officer or officer could perfectly combine this with a job as a professional firefighter in another municipality. Now that it's becoming a fire zone, that's not possible anymore. For the person in question, this is not just a financial problem. His expertise and diploma are also lost and he degrades to the lowest degree. This is not a good thing for the fire zones either. For the fastest adequate assistance, at least one petty officer must always leave. The loss of the rank of these petty officers is detrimental to smaller posts. It would cause problems for the proper functioning. Are you aware of this problem? Can you provide these people with a solution in the short term?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic050x.u22	Mr President, Mr Wilrycx, you assumed that all 34 zones would be launched on 1 January. That will be an answer to one of the following questions, but 27 have started, so not all 34 have started. By the middle of the year, they'd all be started. I am aware of the problem outlined, which you are quite right to mention, both in terms of the consequences for the firefighters concerned and for the posts and zones themselves. The problem is absolutely getting my attention. On about 5 600 professional firefighters and 12 000 voluntary firefighters there are 501 who combine the function of professional and volunteer workers. Of these, 170 perform both functions in the same future zone. These 170 persons will be able to remain employed only in one capacity within the zone. So the problem you outlined concerns 170 people. It is not excluded that a number of them may be recruited as volunteers in another zone, depending on the location and geographical situation of the zone. If they live close to the borders, they could volunteer there. The Act of 19 April 2014 on the working time of the operational staff of the zones already contains a solution to reduce the loss of capacity of the zones concerned. There is an opt-out of ten hours a week for all professional firefighters who wish to do so. As a result, they can work 10 hours per week more than the usual 38 hours per week, up to a maximum of 48 hours per week. A special and additional exception is provided for those who were professionals and volunteers in the same zone. In the seven zones where structuralally more than 38 hours per week are allowed to work, which is extinct in time, they can perform up to four hours of extra opt-out hours, on top of those ten hours, even if they exceed the limit of 48 hours per week. That can be done in their former volunteer corps, but as a professional firefighter. So that four hours comes to the top of the 38 hours plus ten hours extra. Also for the opt-out hours, the premium for operationality and irregular performance is granted, so that there will be no financial loss for the persons concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic050x.u23	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. It is good that the opt-out and the exception regime exist to solve the problem of those zones or fire stations. Of course, the issue remains for the individual that he will have to turn in his diploma and lose his degree. It's about about 170 people. I've heard some have already stopped in the fire department. Others are considering looking for another occupation so that they can retain the position of officer or petty officer. Of course, that's unfortunate, because they're all driven people. Perhaps it would be appropriate for you to write down the areas of competence they have and how they can solve it with the greatest degree of complacency, so that those people get the appreciation they have built up all these years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic050x.u24	Mr President, Minister, from 13 to 26 October 2014, at the initiative of the Italian Presidency of the European Union, Operation Mos Maiorum – with reference to the Roman concept of "Morture of the Elders" – directed against illegal immigration has led 18 000 police officers to track down undocumented persons in the Schengen countries, in cooperation with Europol and Frontex, the European Agency for Security and External Borders of the European Union. The purpose of the operation was to arrest irregular migrants and gather information useful for intelligence and investigative work, as well as to collect data on illegal immigration routes in Europe. Unfortunately, we must deplore a clear lack of transparency as regards both the methods used and the legal basis for this operation. That is why I would like to ask you, Minister, the following questions. What resources have been used in Belgium as part of this operation? How many police officers were involved? What is the cost to the Belgian public authorities of such an operation? What were the rules of engagement, if you will allow me this military term, used by the police officers involved in this operation? How many arrests did this operation take place? What happened to those who were arrested in this context? Were there any subsequent detentions or even repatriations, whether voluntary or not? In addition to these technical issues, two additional elements require clarification. First, how do you justify such an operation in the light of the case law of the Court of Justice of the European Union? Secondly, what assessment can the Italian Presidency and the other Member States of the European Union draw from this type of operation? This coup de force was more like a real hunt for the undocumented and asylum-seekers than an operation to combat the channels of smugglers. This hunt against undocumented persons and asylum seekers is, moreover, denounced by civil society as well as by the associations and collectives of undocumented persons, trade unions and certain UN agencies.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic050x.u25	Mr President, Mrs Grovonius, with regard to Belgian participation in Operation Mos Maiorum, I can inform you that its aim was to gather data in order to obtain an instant picture of migration flows at European level. It was therefore not an operation in the police sense. To the question of what capacity our country has implemented, I answer "no". It was information exchange. What appears on the prospectus I saw is not correct. The figure of 18,000 police officers does not correspond to reality. As Belgium did in 2010 during its Presidency of the European Union, with Operation Hermes, other European countries are organising an exercise to establish a map of irregular immigration within the European Union. For example, Hungary with Operation Mitras, Poland with Operation Demeter, Denmark with Operation Balder, Cyprus with Operation Aphrodite and Greece with Operation Perkunas. Belgium participates in this exercise each year. In addition to this specific analysis, it should be noted that figures are constantly exchanged within the European Union. It should also be noted that the data exchanged are depersonalized. So they're anonymous. In Belgium, we know our migratory flows and know, for example, that migrants pass through our border posts and cross the country to go to Scandinavia, the Netherlands and Germany and interfere in trucks on the E40 to reach the French and Belgian ports with, in most cases, Britain as their final destination. The information exchanged concerns the number of persons, their nationality and the route taken. In order to be able to provide the expected data, police officers in the field were asked to pay particular attention to the itinerary when intercepting persons in an irregular situation. All interceptions were carried out as part of regulatory controls or actions. No further action has been taken. It is important to work mainly on these migratory flows as they are linked to trafficking in human beings and exploitation of the weakness of others. The risks these people face when trying to reach their country of destination via Belgium should not be underestimated (to lie on the axles of trucks, to enter tankers, to jump into the trunks of cars). During Mos Maiorum operations, interesting records and interceptions were revealed. A total of 917 people were intercepted and included in the database. In the seaport of Zeebrugge, 5 people hid in boxes of cars intended for export. Several interceptions took place at airports concerning persons from Greece and in possession of false documents. People who had climbed into trucks on motorway parking lots were intercepted throughout the country: Louvain, Rotselaar, Neufchâteau, Tournai, Bruges. On 21 October, 30 people were intercepted in a parking lot and 22 people were intercepted on 22 October. Some were travelling with small children in family and had entered refrigerated trucks. As a result of the increase in the number of people smuggled into trucks parked on motorway car parks last August and September, more attention is being paid to this type of action at this time. The police keep a constant eye on these channels and not only during the Mos Maiorum period. This is a permanent action. In addition, efforts have been made to collect data to form an image of the phenomenon. I learned from the press that notices and leaflets had been distributed in which there were 18 000 members of the police in Europe who were hunting against the undocumented between 13 and 26 October. I recall that during this period no further action was taken by the police. During this period, a map of migration flows in different countries was drawn up via the input of data on intercepted persons, without using their identity data.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic050x.u26	Mr. Chair, Minister, thank you for the answers you provided. I remain sceptical: I hear you quote a series of operations carried out during this period. At the same time, you are telling me that no additional means have been devoted or anything specific. I can't figure it out.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic050x.u27	Madam, these are planned actions, checks carried out on a daily basis, plus exchanges of information in a limited period of time between the countries of Europe. This is what Operation Mos Maiorum is all about.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic050x.u28	Thank you, Minister, for this information.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic050x.u29	Mr President, Minister, on this very unacceptable, intolerable and incomprehensible day of extreme violence, I will refer to another equally important type of violence during the demonstration on 6 November. It's another form of violence. It is true that the question is not recent but it is important that we have answers from you. While the right to demonstrate is a foundation of our democracy, it is regrettable that a violent minority takes advantage of this right to ruin and attack. As a result, the medical stations set up to provide immediate assistance to the demonstrators were targeted. The latest official record at our disposal shows that 111 people were injured, 48 were transported to hospital, 15 to 20 cars were burned, 62 were damaged, 5 were damaged, one was damaged, a broken windshield and 3 cabossed ambulances, two firefighters and a doctor were also reportedly affected by tear gas. Minister, is this record correct? What about damage to public space? Who will cover the costs of the damage? Have the paramedics who have been unable to work been replaced? How many prosecutions have been initiated against the perpetrators of such violence? The press spoke in November of 13 arrests, including 8 administrative arrests and only 5 judicial arrests. In mid-December, the press referred to 4 appearances before the correctional court, while noting that further appearances were scheduled for January. What exactly is the situation today?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic050x.u30	Mrs. Caprasse, I can inform you that 134 police officers were injured. The figure you quoted was true on November 12, when you introduced your question. Today, I can confirm that 134 police officers were injured during the national demonstration on 6 November. As far as emergency personnel are concerned, the SIAMU in Brussels told us that no ambulance firefighters were injured during the demonstration on Thursday 6 November. Several of its vehicles, on the other hand, suffered material damage. As regards damage to public space, it is up to the municipalities concerned, namely Brussels, Anderlecht and Saint-Gilles, to carry out an inventory. The costs of repairing this damage will have to be reimbursed by the insurance companies or by persons identified as the perpetrators of the damage. The investigation to identify the authors is under way. On 29 November last, the Prosecutor of the King of Brussels stated that a total of 14 people had already been arrested. The investigation is therefore ongoing.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic050x.u31	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your answer. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that Brussels is a very special city as we welcome many events other than the one we have known. You will probably know more in the coming days. You mustn't fool yourself! It will therefore be necessary to develop other means to protect the demonstrators, but also all those who are likely to be injured or to suffer damage such as those experienced during the demonstration on 6 November.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic050x.u32	By way of introduction, I would like to point out that I have proposed - and this has been admitted - that the committee may hear, at the appropriate time, different representatives of the authorities involved in the evaluation of this event and I therefore assume that at some point the committee will be able to set up this work and therefore organise these hearings as we have undertaken. This is a simple reminder as an introduction. Since November 6th, a lot has happened and it will probably lead to interesting debates. But it is true that the question that I introduced dates back some time ago. During this demonstration, it is clear that the perpetrators of the events referred to by Ms. Caprasse must be identified and prosecuted. We welcome the work already done by the judicial and police authorities in this regard. The press, particularly the website www.resistances.be, revealed the presence among the demonstrators that day, of two Dutch neo-Nazi leaders Eite Homan and Karl-Jan Walle, who were seen at the door of Hal when incidents of rare violence with the police broke out. These two leaders would sometimes participate in rallies in Belgium and also maintain regular contacts with European neo-Nazi groups. Their presence in such manifestations is certainly not inspired by the noblest feelings or intentions; one would not dare to think so given the ideological profile of the persons concerned. Can the minister tell me whether these facts are confirmed by ongoing or already completed investigations and whether measures to prohibit access to the territory could be considered against such persons?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic050x.u33	Thank you, Mr. Maingain. You cite two names of Dutch-born neo-Nazi leaders who were allegedly seen at Hal's door when the violent incidents broke out targeting the police on November 6. To the questions of whether these troublemakers can demonstrate in our country and whether any measures prohibiting Belgian territory will be taken against them in the future, my answer is clear and we are always here seeking a balance between the rule of law, on the one hand, and security, on the other. In a State governed by the rule of law, everyone has, inter alia, the right to assemble and express himself freely. These persons may have contacts in Belgium or with other European neo-Nazi groups, but this alone does not constitute a legitimate basis for intervention in administrative or judicial police matters. Of course, our services remain attentive to this phenomenon.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic050x.u34	Minister, like you, I am concerned about respect for the rule of law. It is not a question of taking arbitrary measures against persons who have the right to express their views freely or to participate freely in a demonstration. The previous acts of the persons concerned remain to be known, to be identified and to be verified in the course of the event. I dare not imagine that you would not ask your services to check whether the presence is known and whether they were able to identify, in particular on video images, their behaviour during this demonstration. Did they incite violence? Did they themselves commit acts of violence? And, after a police investigation, if necessary, you have to ask for the case to be referred to the prosecutor's office. I find that, at the very least, when we know the pedigree of those concerned, taking some additional control and verification measures does not seem to me unnecessary, even in terms of administrative police.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic050x.u35	Mr. Maingain, the video images are being analysed. Whether they are from the far right, the far left, the centre, the extreme centre or I don't know what, if they are agitators, they will be prosecuted. That's right! We currently have 14 cases before the courts and tribunals, but this has nothing to do with the ideology of these people. We're back to the rule of law. The investigation will determine whether they caused the problems that occurred on November 6, 2014.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic050x.u36	Their ideology is important if they commit acts of violence, for which they have already been responsible at demonstrations in other places and at other times. It is a tradition for individuals of this acabit to be subject to enhanced surveillance or even control when they set foot in the territory of our country, a fortiori when the circumstances are those of a demonstration, such as the one we experienced on 6 November.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic050x.u37	Mr. Chair, Mr.Minister, my question was tabled well in advance of the debate we had on the budget, during which I had already asked you several questions on this issue of the financing of police pensions. So I'm not going to repeat myself, since you've already answered my questions. However, I would like to know whether there are any new elements in this file and whether you have been able to reconnect with the trade union organisations. Basically, that's what I want to know.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic050x.u38	Minister, I can actually repeat what Mr Hamou said. I submitted my question a long time ago, on 14 November. In the meantime, we have debated the policy paper and the budget. During the discussion on the policy paper, you said that bilateral consultations with the syndicated partners would start and that you expected results by the end of 2014. It's the beginning of 2015. My question is therefore very simple. What's the status of the pension file?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic050x.u39	I am glad that you have changed or, at least, updated your question. It does not make much sense to repeat itself. In fact, I said in the policy paper: at the end of the year. As regards the policy statement, which we later had, I said that we will still need the month of January. We are reviewing some of the compromise proposals, still bilaterally. I want to finish that exercise by the end of this month, either with an agreement with the syndicated partners or not. I am afraid to do so today, but I do not think that the matter is hopeless. We can still come to an agreement with the syndicated partners, but I am not making any preliminaries on the result. We must come to a conclusion. The period of uncertainty must be closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic050x.u40	Thank you for these answers, Minister. We will not fail to come back to this issue very soon.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic050x.u41	Mr President, Minister, a while ago there was a great deal to be done about the arrest in Thailand of a West Flemish cannabis farmer, Mr Lagrou. He mainly asks questions about the documents on the basis of which he was arrested. In the press it was even suggested that the documents drawn up by the federal police would not be valid. It is in the interests of everyone, of the rule of law and not the least of the police themselves, that such harsh words could be made clear. Hence my questions. Who drew up the relevant documents? Are they fully legal? Do they support it for acceptable reasons? Will the incident give rise to further steps from your office?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic050x.u42	Mr Degroote, I will have to leave many of your questions unanswered. On the basis of the information available to me to date, this person was arrested in Thailand on the basis of the violation of immigration laws and would be expelled by the Thai authorities. For the aspects relating to a possible Belgian judicial part of this case, I must of course refer you to my colleague in the Justice Department. That falls within his competence. You know that it is up to the Justice Department to draw up such documents as an arrest warrant or an international alert. That's not police jurisdiction. So I repeat that my information shows that the person was arrested in Thailand for violating their immigration legislation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic050x.u43	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply. Then I'll continue my search.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic050x.u44	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, my inquiry is somewhat dated, as it followed events that took place during Toussaint's leave. However, the lessons to be learned from these facts remain relevant at this time as well. The Minister of Home Affairs of the Flemish Government, Ms Liesbeth Homans, stated that she wanted to strengthen the control of the use of languages in the colleges of the commune councils of communes with special linguistic regime located in the Flemish Region and especially in the communes with ease. This claim is obviously not new, even if it takes on an additional dimension because of Mrs Homans' assertions. Clearly, the Flemish Government is still unaware of the scope of a judgment of the Constitutional Court of 10 March 1998, given on a preliminary question, which clearly states that the obligation to use Dutch during the sittings of the communal council applies exclusively to the mayor and other members of the college of mayors and aldermen. It therefore does not apply to other members of the communal council. The jurisprudence of the Standing Committee on Linguistic Control, the French-speaking and Dutch-speaking chambers together, has remained constant in this regard, providing that the oral use of languages in the communal council is free both in public and in camera and that the communal councillors of the communes referred to in article 23 of the Act on the use of languages in administrative matters are free to use Dutch or French when they address the college orally or in writing. The constitutionalist and professor Jan Velaers, often cited in the north of the country, said that it is necessary to recognize the authority of the judgments of the Court of Arbitration. It referred to the decision of the Court of Arbitration, today the Constitutional Court, which I referred to in quotation. As Minister of the Interior, you have a legal obligation to ensure compliance with laws on the use of languages in administrative matters. And so, in this case, the jurisprudential interpretation given by the highest court in the country that is the Constitutional Court. So could you confirm to me that you fully share the scope of the Constitutional Court's ruling and that, if necessary, you might take the initiative to remind your colleague Mrs Homans of the authority of a Constitutional Court ruling? There is no need to take other measures which are more demanding or more binding than what the Court imposes and which, on the contrary, guarantees a well-soothing linguistic freedom in the municipal councils concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic050x.u45	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Maingain, in your inquiry, you mention certain things that Minister Homans would have said. Article 7 of the Special Act of 8 August 1980 is very clear on the distribution of supervisory powers. I therefore have no hierarchical authority over the powers of Minister Homans. The national level is made up of the Federal, the Communities and the Regions at the same level. According to your inquiry, the minister has said certain things and has not done anything that is not covered by the laws on the use of languages in administrative matters. So I don't see what action I could take.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic050x.u46	Minister, you could have been even shorter by saying that you respect the authority of a ruling of the Constitutional Court. If you have any difficulty getting in touch with Mrs Homans, what I can understand in view of the principles of autonomy behind you, I propose a more direct and simple solution, so Mrs Homans will not blame you. I propose that you write to the presidents of the communal councils of the communes concerned simply to say that you, too, recall the decision of the Constitutional Court and the authority attached to it. Undoubtedly, this would be an excellent initiative on your part.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic050x.u47	In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. A motion for recommendation was tabled by Mr. Olivier Maingain and reads as follows: The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Mr Olivier Maingain and the response of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Security and Interior, responsible for the Grand Cities and the Régie des Bâtiments, - having regard to the recent statements by the Flemish Minister of Home Affairs, Mrs Liesbeth Homans, to step up control of the colleges and communal councils of the communes with facilities; - having regard to the ruling of the Constitutional Court of 10 March 1998 on a preliminary ruling, states "expressis verbis" that "the obligation to use Dutch during the meetings of the communal council applies exclusively to the mayor and other members of the college of mayors and echevins, and therefore does not apply to the other members of the communal council"; - since the CLCC's jurisprudence has remained constant in this respect, providing that "the oral use of languages in the communal council is free both in public and in camera" and that "the communal councillors of the communes referred to in Article 23 of the Laws on the use of languages in administrative matters are free to use Dutch or French when they address the college orally or in writing"; - having regard to the recommendation of the Congress of Local and Regional Authorities of the Council of Europe of 31 October 2008 by which the Congress: * considers that Belgian language laws as interpreted and applied by the Flemish authorities in the so-called "facilitated" municipalities hinder the participation of Belgian French-speaking citizens in local political life; this situation undermines the very spirit of the text of the European Charter of Local Self-Government ratified by Belgium, and in particular paragraph 5 of the preamble, which recalls a fundamental principle of local democracy ("Considering that the right of citizens to participate in the management of public affairs is part of the democratic principles common to all Council of Europe Member States"; * recommends that the Belgian authorities (...) revise the language laws, in particular as regards their application in the municipalities with facilities, in order to allow in particular the use of the two languages, French and Dutch, at the meetings of the communal council by the municipal councillors, asks the federal government - to form part of the recommendations made by the Council of Europe bodies, of which Belgium has assumed the chairmanship of the Committee of Ministers since November 2014, having regard to the authority of this institution in the field of fundamental rights; - to ensure respect for the jurisprudence of the Constitutional Court in the head of the Flemish authorities, so that the communal councillors can freely make use of French in communes with special linguistic regime. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr Olivier Maingain and reads as follows: The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mr Olivier Maingain and the reply of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Security and Home Affairs, in charge of Great Cities and the Government of the Buildings, - having regard to the recent statements by the Flemish Minister for the Interior, Mrs Liesbeth Homans, that she wishes to strengthen the supervision of the mayor's and ship's colleges and the municipal councils in the facilities municipalities; - having regard to the judgment of the Constitutional Court of 10 March 1998 in response to a question referred for a preliminary ruling, which expressly states that the obligation to use Dutch during the municipal sessions applies only to the mayor and the other members of the mayor's and ship's college and thus not to the other members of the municipal council; - having regard to the consistency of the case law of the VCT in that regard, which states that the oral language in the city council is free in public meetings and closed-door meetings, and that the municipal council members referred to in Article 23 of the laws on the use of languages in administrative matters are free to use Dutch or French when they address the college orally or in writing; - having regard to the recommendation of the Congress of Local and Regional Authorities of the Council of Europe of 31 October 2008, in which Congress: * considers that the Belgian language laws as interpreted and applied by the Flemish authorities in the so-called "facilities" municipalities prevent the participation of French-speaking Belgian citizens in local political life; that this situation infringes the spirit of the text of the European Charter of Local Autonomy ratified by Belgium, and in particular the fifth paragraph of the preamble which refers to a fundamental principle of local democracy ("Whereas the right of citizens to participate in public administration is one of the democratic principles common to all Member States of the Council of Europe"); * insists that the Belgian authorities... revise the language laws, in particular as regards their application in the facilities municipalities, in order to allow, in particular, the use of the two languages, French and Dutch, by the city council members at the municipal sessions, asks the federal government: - to comply with the recommendations of the Council of Europe's bodies since November 2014, Belgium has been chairing the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe in view of the authority of that institution in the field of fundamental rights; - to enforce the case law of the Constitutional Court by the Flemish authorities, so that the municipal council members in the municipalities with a special language regime could use French freely. A simple motion was tabled by Mr. Koenraad Degroote. A simple motion was tabled by Mr Conseil Degroote. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over. Debates of the European Parliament 463 by Mrs Khattabi has been converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic050x.u48	Minister, we have just understood that 27 of the 34 fire zones are operational. In addition, according to the Royal Decree of 19 April 2014, there is a new financial statute attached to this. I would like to refer to Articles 35 and 36. According to Article 35, the amount of the performance fee shall be calculated per performance. Each benefit shall give rise to the payment of a fee calculated in proportion to the number of hours worked. Article 36 provides that the minimum remuneration for a service corresponds to that due for one duration of performance. Every hour begun shall be reimbursed in full. According to the interpretation of the administration, therefore, the zones may not pay more than one hour to the called volunteers, if the performance does not exceed one hour. At present, a majority of the voluntary firefighters within our firefighter zone are certainly not otherwise called upon to intervene for a minimum of two hours, even if the intervention time is de facto shorter. Only those who opt for their old financial status, on the basis of Article 207 of the Civil Security Act of 15 May 2007, can continue to benefit from the minimum payment period of two hours for intervention. The question of maintaining the minimum remuneration for two hours within the new financial statute for the voluntary firefighters was raised several times by the firefighters' federations. The date of 1 January 2015 has already passed. Our fire zone too already has its legal personality. So my question may be outdated, but that is why it is no less pertinent. Can you confirm that you are sticking to the interpretation of the administration? If not, is the zone free to make a derogation as long as the principle of at least one hour is maintained?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic050x.u49	In view of the importance and fundamental role of the voluntary firefighters in the organisation of the fire department, which was also recognised in the government agreement, I intend to adapt Article 36 of the financial statute of the firefighter by means of an amending decision, which will, however, have to go through several steps: the Treasury Inspectorate, the budget, the Council of Ministers, consultation with the trade unions' partners, the Regions and the Council of State. So there is a long way to go, not suffering, but at least that is the firm intention. Pending the amending decision, I will distribute an interpretation by means of a letter which allows the zone to pay out more than one hour to the volunteers who have been called in for an intervention. It will be within the discretion of the zones to deal with this problem until we have been able to amend Article 36 of the financial statute.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic050x.u50	Minister, I can only thank you on behalf of all the firefighters for your intention. I hope this will not be a long agony, but the letter will certainly be a relief.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic050x.u51	Mr President, Minister, on November 12, 2014, a major explosion from the Tihange nuclear power plant caused a certain stir among the population on the site. Some residents fearing a major incident potential have alerted the police. It would appear that the explosion of a generator is at the origin of this alert. Minister, could you confirm this information and clarify to me the exact nature of the facts? Is it not disturbing, or even disturbing, that this kind of incident occurs at a nuclear site? Following numerous calls, the integrated police communication centre in Liège contacted the police area of Huy. Then the latter reportedly called the security officer at the Tihange nuclear site. It appears that no explanation of the nature of the facts could be provided to the local police area. You will easily understand that this incident raises serious questions about the security of the site, how security is managed, and how information is managed. Minister, could you please remind me of the procedures that are in place for such an incident, particularly in terms of information? In the case of the incident I just described, why was the police not informed by the site security officer of the exact nature of the incident? Has a report been provided to you by your administration? Could you please give me a detailed account of the contents? What about the manager's responsibility? What measures have you taken to avoid a new setback of the same kind?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic050x.u52	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, an explosion in a nuclear site is fortunately not a daily event. Having said that, AFCN has developed a directive in which it asks operators to inform immediately the competent services in the event of such an event. The nuclear safety authorities (AFCN and Bel V) were notified on 12 November at around 9:40 p.m., in accordance with the above-mentioned directive, that an explosion had taken place outside the nuclear zone at the exhaust stack of the combustion gases of a Tihange 2 diesel group at around 6:40 p.m. on the same day. As a result, AFCN and Bel V were not notified until three hours after the explosion, which is abnormally long in view of the concept of immediate notification applicable to such events. The various competent authorities, namely the Crisis Centre, the SPF Employment, Labour and Social Concertation, the mayor of Huy and the governor of the province of Liège, were notified at the same time, i.e. around 9.50 p.m. I would add that the written confirmation of this notification was received only the next day at noon. Bel V conducted a reactive check on 13 November and AFCN visited the site on 14 November. The latter sent a letter to the operator requesting, inter alia, an analysis of the root causes of the event and a detailed explanation of the malfunction of the communication, namely the delay in notification and the late confirmation of the information. Once all the elements have been assembled – which is not yet the case – AFCN and Bel V intend to carry out a follow-up inspection to assess all the elements submitted by Electrabel and the future action plan that will aim to prevent such an event from occurring. According to my latest information, the follow-up inspection could still take place this month.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic050x.u53	Mr President, I thank the minister for his very comprehensive answer. I distinguish the event itself from communication and communication management. Obviously, you have the first explanations, but we are still waiting for the full report. This has happened in the non-nuclear part and there may have been other more worrying things recently. I will not elaborate on this point any more, I would like to wait until the report at the end of January to ask you again. With regard to communication management, there was a deflagration at a nuclear site, which is particularly challenging for residents, but the first services were not informed until 9:40 p.m., three hours later! I ask you to pay particular attention to this aspect. The incident that took place a few weeks later was better managed from the information point of view. Perhaps the lessons learned from the first event were learned. It is not obvious for the mayors of the neighbouring communes to manage the anxiety of the population for three hours without knowing what is going on. You say the mayor of Huy was informed at 9:50 p.m. All right. It happens that the power plant is located in the immediate vicinity of a nearby municipality, Amay, which is sometimes more hampered by noise than Huy, a commune that actually houses the power plant. Could you also ensure that neighbouring mayors can also be directly informed? However, between mayors, information can sometimes flow faster than the three hours that have been lost in this case. It would be good if information could be given more effectively. I will also be interested in your report on this point, but I will come back to you once you are in possession of all the elements, probably in early February.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic050x.u54	Minister, in August British dock workers in the port found a dead Afghan and 35 exhausted stowaways in a container that came from Zeebrugge. After some research it soon appeared that a scanner that detects human presence in trucks could have prevented this. However, that scanner turned out to be defective at the time. Among other things, the governor of West Flanders, Carl Decaluwé, insists that one should quickly consider what can be done about it. I have four questions for you. Could you give me some information on the state of the investigation under way? What control methods are used by the shipping police to reduce the number of illegal immigrants? Can you allocate funds for the purchase of a new scanner in Zeebrugge? Can our country make use of European funds for such investments? Answers to my first question are probably difficult, but to my other questions I would like to get concrete answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic050x.u55	Mr Demon, I do indeed have to answer your first question that as long as the investigation is under way, I cannot provide any information in the interest of the investigation. Your second question concerns control methods. Reducing the number of people in illegal residence is a shared responsibility of the government and the private sector. The shipping police contributes to this and carries out punctual checks on the public road in the port, aimed at illegal migration, based on risk analyses. It also supports large-scale operations led by administrative and judicial authorities as one of the partners in the fight against illegal migration. The shipping police have technical means, including a cargoscanner, CO2 meters, a thermal camera, residual light amplifiers, a videoscope and migration control dogs. For the replacement of the scanner or for a new scanner, three possible options are considered, namely the purchase of a new cargoscanner with maintenance contract, an upgrade of the current scanner with maintenance contract or the maintenance of the current cargoscanner with renewal of the existing maintenance contract. The technical specifications for the tender request are now being worked out. That work is almost complete. A decision will be taken on the basis of the tenders and opinions submitted. However, there is budgetary scope to provide for one of the three forms of replacement that I have just outlined. In reply to your last question on European subsidies, I would like to inform you that the Federal Police have already submitted to the ISF of International Security Fund, Partition Police, a project for subsidies through EU funds for the purchase of a new or the maintenance of the current cargoscanner. Frontex currently does not provide any budgets for the purchase of detection material. At the other agency, which is the International Security Fund, the application is ongoing. We don't have an answer yet. However, we are sure that we cannot expect subsidies from the Frontex channel.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic050x.u56	Mr President, Minister, it is good to know that there are a lot of containers in Zeebrugge, namely 1.2 million containers. That is why we need to bet as soon as possible on re-updating the scanner or placing a new scanner. Thank you for your resources. I also hope that you will be able to ensure that this can be done at a reasonable speed. After all, we hear in the field that the issue raises problems. However, I would like to thank you for providing the necessary budgets.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic050x.u57	Mr President, now that there are plans to mention the port of Antwerp-Zeelakte...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic050x.u58	That is a dangerous subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic050x.u59	Should I say my mind on that?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic050x.u60	Minister, I would like to dwell on a royal decree of 18 March, published on 8 April and entered into force on 1 September. It's a very brief royal decision, with just a few articles, but, if I may say so, it's a little sloppy and it raises, frankly, more questions than it improves the work of, for example, a number of e-commerce parties, and the latter are very much to my heart. It might be good to look very briefly at the royal decision itself. It provides that a number of goods, which are listed, should be subject to a special transport and treated according to the rules for private and special security in transport. It's about paper cheques or vouchers, and then I spontaneously think of the Bongo coupons, which are certainly popular at the end of the year as a gift. Those vouchers are more and more digitally traded as e-commerce in our country, but the paper version is strongly endorsed in the Royal Decree. Other than that, it's about gemstones. I can imagine, they must have great value. Then it's about jewelry and platinum and gold. It does not contain jewellery of platinum and/or gold. It does include jewelry of platinum and gold. We must therefore assume that jewellery is classified as a separate category in the Royal Decree. For the rest, there's no definition of the jewels. Jewelry can mean just about anything. It could be about a 25-euro watch being sold online, or a very expensive watch. Everything is being treated in the same way here, and that certainly gives cause for concern. We, as politicians, do not have to make a lot of illusions. It is not because the KB came into force on September 1st, that no one dares to send a 5 euro bracelet. I believe that we politicians should dare to ask whether we are still doing well if no one is taking into account the legislation that we are adopting here. In my view, we all have an interest in careful regulation. Unfortunately, this is an example of careless regulation. In short, I find Article 1 difficult to read and interpret for those who have to deal with it. To be honest, Article 2 makes it even more difficult if possible. This provides for derogations from Article 1. The first point is clear: you can still wear or transport jewellery yourself. If that were not possible, it would be completely absurd. The second point concerns the transport between pick-up and delivery points, which are only on foot. In my opinion, few logistics companies can imagine this today. With horse and cart it is still allowed, with the bike it is not allowed, while more and more bicycle courier services are created. It is therefore curious to have to read this in contemporary legislation. It also excludes transport between operating seats of the same undertaking, in so far as the total value carried does not exceed the amount of EUR 30 000, and transport by staff of bpost. Of course, besides bpost in the logistics around e-commerce, we also have a lot of other players. I thought for e-commerce that market should be free for some reason. If the provider of e-commerce has organised logistics via TNT or DHL............................................................................................................................................................................ There are other rules in this regard. The carriage of goods referred to in Article 1, 1° may be effected by bpost. For the goods referred to in Article 1, 2°, i.e. jewellery, the value shall not exceed the amount of EUR 150 000. There is therefore a separate treatment for bpost. A private company would therefore feel discriminated against in a free market. Another exception shall apply to the goods referred to in Article 1, 2°..... jewellery.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. In other words, we take out every logistics company. If one does it oneself, the exception applies, but one should not place a logistics player in between. This too is frankly unthinkable in e-commerce. Fortunately the KB is very short and I didn't have to read much. However, I have had to read it a few times. I think it hangs together with hooks and eyes. We should therefore not be under any illusion, because the KB is simply not being applied today. Do we benefit from legislation that is not being applied? I have a lot of questions about that. Either the KB disappears, or it gets rewritten properly. I fully understand the need to make certain things safe. We are all once again shocked by what can happen in our Western society. I therefore understand that safety is a priority and that safety has a price. Especially people who handle high-value goods, such as precious jewels, should be protected. I can understand that. In this way, however, it does not benefit. The KB harms and doesn't benefit. So we're not doing very well.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic050x.u61	Mrs Ceysens, the objective of the regulation on value transport has always been to prevent robberies. Goods can be insured against theft, but there is little or no alternative to the suffering of the escorts of the value transport. Policy was a policy issue, and that is also my policy concern. It remains to ensure the protection of the physical integrity of the staff and citizens on the public road. That is the objective of the Royal Decree. How it is implemented is another matter, but the objective is certainly noble and I endorse it. You yourself said how the RB was created and when it entered into force. In summary, two types of goods are endorsed, namely cheques and vouchers in the broad sense of the word, and jewels and gems on the other hand. I have instructed my department to evaluate the implementation problems of this decision and I have proposed amendments where necessary. I would ask you to give me your extensive criticism so that I can include it in the evaluation. After all, I think that some elements make sense, and I certainly want to take them into account in the evaluation, without losing sight of the original starting point. You talked about jewelry in detail. Now, the common definition for a jewel is: a jewelry that is worn on the body with the exception of clothing to embellish it. And then there is indeed the whole spectrum of things that lie in the vault more than they are worn on the body, to other things that one would not, so to speak, bend over to pick them up when they fall. I mean that functional objects such as clocks and fountain pens, however expensive they may be, are therefore not yet jewelry. I have no knowledge of capacity shortages and delays in deliveries, especially when it comes to significant flows of goods. Private value transport companies are also flexible and can handle ad hoc transport very quickly. You mentioned the exception for bpost. They have the monopoly on registered shipments and this is mainly about registered shipments. If that can be interpreted more broadly, we must indeed look at it from the outset. However, I do not see very well how e-commerce can be compromised in general. However, I would certainly like to take your comments with you. I come to your final question. There is no European regulation in this area, perhaps not yet. However, many Member States, such as France, have a similar regime to ours. As a bottomline, I would like to invite you to give me your criticisms so that I can take them into the evaluation we are currently making of the Royal Decree.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic050x.u62	I am happy to do so, Minister, because I believe that a rewrite would please the whole sector. The aim would then be clarified, after which a concise regulation could be drawn up. I have another question about timing. When do you think the evaluation will be ready and by when could the royal decree be rewritten? Could that happen relatively quickly?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic050x.u63	That should be fast, but I'll let you know the time frame.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic050x.u64	Thanks for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic050x.u65	Minister, legislation on care homes is partly Flemish and partly federal. Normally, only one family can be registered in a home. In a home in the context of care residences one can still create a subordinate housing entity, which was previously called kangaroo residences, which means for example that two families are registered at an address, one of which is made up of a sixty-plusr. This is subject to a number of conditions, contained in the Flemish Codex and the teachings of Home Affairs. It has to be a subordinate housing unit. It has to form a physical whole. It's got to be a third of the house. The main house and the housing unit must be owned by the same owner. They must be one or two people over the age of 60 or dependent on a disability. This is in line with the problem of house numbers. I'm also a ship of spatial planning. If people are in need of care, I would remind them that they can choose to transform their home into a care home provided they meet the conditions. The problem is that owners of a large house want to stay in the main house and someone in whom they trust moves in with them to do shopping or keep an eye on when one of the two needs care. In that case, the person in need of care does not reside in the subordinate housing unit. I would like to talk about this problem. Are the care-related measures only applicable when the person in need is moving in with someone and not the other way around? If so, on what basis? Should we rely on these teachings? Is that the unique interpretation? What happens if we still assign a house number when the older person stays in his own home and rents the subordinate property to someone else?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic050x.u66	The aforementioned interpretation of the concept of residential care is already applied by my department in the circular to the municipal authorities of 23 September 2014. It explicitly states that care homes not only apply to healthy people who take into their homes an elderly or needy person, but that the opposite is also considered to be care homes. People who become old or needy can therefore divide up their too large home, live in the smallest part and take healthy people into their homes to assist them. This interpretation is included as such in the teachings for keeping information data in the National Register. The other questions are therefore without object.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic050x.u67	Thank you, Minister, for that clear interpretation, because we had a study day on this with both Flanders and the federal level, and it was not so clear. You expressly confirm that in both cases elderly people who are going to live in the subordinate home or who continue to live in the main home can receive a number.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic050x.u68	It's included in the teachings.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic050x.u69	I can't take it out like this, but your answer makes it clearer for the administrations.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic050x.u70	Mr President, Minister, in the Court of Auditors' report of May 2013, a whole list was published under the name "Management of absenteeism among federal officials." However, there was no specification of absenteeism in the personnel of Defence or the federal police. As a result, questions have already been asked in the Senate, but I have some additional questions about the percentage of absenteeism due to illness in the federal and local police. How many days a year is a staff member absent from local and federal police on average due to illness? How many different periods of absence are the average per year? How many absences did a check take place? In how many cases did the absence of illness turn out to be unjustified? Also important, is there any evolution in absenteeism with the federal and local police? If so, how do you interpret it? Are there notable differences between the various functions performed by the police? I have already received some figures from you, so we should not go over them here anymore. However, I would like to know whether there are differences between the police and whether this has been broken down by post. Are there any data available on this?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic050x.u71	Mr President, Mr Demon, as far as your first three questions are concerned, we have indeed provided you with some tables. As far as your fourth question is concerned, the police medical service does not have figures broken down by function, as there are 400 different codes within the integrated police. So I don't have that information. It is actually the information from which you could draw conclusions, but unfortunately we do not have it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic050x.u72	Are you prepared to instruct your administration to divide this up a little? After all, I think we can draw conclusions from that. People are getting older and we all know the current problems of retirement age, for example. I wonder if there are any clear differences between the cop on the field, the neighborhood cop, and the cop behind the desk. We may not find four hundred different parts, but you could ask your administration to split it up anyway, so that we could get more specific information on this at a time of one to two years, so that we can learn from it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic050x.u73	Mr Demon, without making any formal commitment to this, because I must first look at what efforts this requires, I would like to look at what efforts it requires to split up the most relevant distinctive parts, according to the example you mention, such as office work, district agent or intervention. I cannot formally commit to this now, because I need to see what that means. After all, we are also facing more blue in the street, so I would prefer the cops on the street to be working. You are right to say that the interpretation of these figures can teach us something.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic050x.u74	Mr Minister, as has just been mentioned, there are still a lot of questions for staff when starting fire zones, especially for volunteers. One of these points is the lack of clarity about the growth potential within the fire department. For someone who joins the fire department as an ordinary firefighter and then wants to become a petty officer or officer, according to the new statute, there are quite a few uncertainties: can this still be done for those involved and can it be done within a reasonable period of time? I have four specific questions on this subject. Firstly, can firefighters and corporals, who have already obtained their license from sergeant and thus meet the current conditions of promotion, be immediately appointed sergeant in the new statute, or do they need additional training and, above all, additional seniority? Secondly, to increase a degree, five years of seniority are required. Five times 180 hours of seniority would correspond in practice to about 7.5 calendar years. Minister, are you not afraid that this will eventually lead to a shortage of voluntary officers and officers? Thirdly, when pulling out the first vehicle, a petty officer must always be present. In the present statute, a corporal is sufficient with the license of sergeant. This will no longer be possible in the new statute. Minister, are you considering a transitional period so that enough people can be prepared for the post of Petty Officer? Fourthly, does watchkeeping also count for the establishment of seniority?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic050x.u75	Mr President, promotions from the entry into force of the zone must be subject to the conditions of promotion of the new statute. This means that the firefighter can promote corporal, provided he has three years of degree as a firefighter, excluding the internship, has a final positive evaluation and the B02 licence and has also passed the new promotional tests. The degree of discretion acquired within the municipal fire department counts. Corporal's license will be assimilated in the new royal decree on training. For a positive evaluation, the last evaluation received counts. Only the promotional test is new and will have to be completed. The following promotion conditions apply to the sergeant: five years of degree as a corporal or three years if a specific certificate, determined by the new KB Trainings, has been obtained. So we are talking about five years if we do not obtain qualifications. If one obtains one of the qualifications defined in the new KB Trainings, then three years of seniority is sufficient. Again there is a final positive evaluation, the licence M01 and success for the new promotional test to be developed. Sergeant's license will be assimilated to the new KB Trainings. The last evaluation received counts. A further test of promotion will therefore have to be carried out. Specifically for the sergeant there is also an additional condition regarding the degree. The previously acquired degree in the municipal fire department counts as one year, but this acquired within the zone counts as 180 hours of performance. A distinction is therefore made at the time of entry into force of the zone. As far as your second question is concerned, it is not true that the 180 hours of benefits will not be available in one year. This will depend on the organisation of the service and the number of calls to which the service is subject. This condition was necessary to ensure real operational experience before being promoted to sergeant, lieutenant or captain. This is determined by the concern not to get a theoretical period but actually gained experience in the lower degree. The other degrees are not subject to this condition; it applies only to the promotion of sergeant, lieutenant or captain. As far as the compulsory removal of the petty officer is concerned, this obligation has nothing to do with the new statute. She already existed in the Royal Decree of 10 November 2012 on the fastest adequate aid. A transitional period of three years has already been granted. It ran from December 7, 2012 to December 6, 2015. This period therefore runs for a small year, within which the municipalities and the zones could and will be able to take the necessary measures. Then I come to your specific question about the guards. Guards do not count for the construction of the degree level of 180 hours of service. This applies only to the promotion to the degrees of sergeant, lieutenant and captain. No distinction is made for the other degrees; there one year of degree is equal to one year. The concern here is practical experience. And if you have 180 hours waiting, I don't think you can distinguish between a corporal and a sergeant, a sergeant and a lieutenant, a lieutenant and a captain. The intention is really to have gained practical experience, to have been sufficient in the operations before being eligible for such promotion.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic050x.u76	Thank you, Minister. This operational experience is absolutely necessary, but we must also, of course, ensure that the expected seniority does not become too great, so that problems can arise within the fire stations with the follow-up of petty officers or officers who disappear for various reasons. I think it is important to evaluate that and to ensure that no fire stations can get into trouble. As far as the answer to your third question is concerned, it is true that a petty officer should have been present earlier on the first exit. However, my question was whether the corporal who has the sergeant's license is also eligible to meet those conditions. In the old statute, that's okay. I am not entirely clear in the new statute, but perhaps you can let me know.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic050x.u77	May I take that question, because I do not have a specific answer to it now. As far as the 180 hours are concerned, it also has a lot to do with managing the mail. If one looks further ahead and one sees that there may be a shortage of a corporal, for example, then one can foresee that these people will get their 180 hours on an annual basis. That is a matter of management and management of the post. You're asking for an evaluation. As you know, in the CBAs, it has been established that they are being evaluated on a regular basis. I think the committee itself will pay sufficient attention to this. The pressure's gonna come from underneath.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic050x.u78	Mr.President, Minister, as part of the reform of the Regional Fire Service (RSS), fire departments were called upon to comply with the new legal framework by January 1, 2015, establishing larger rescue zones than currently. However, some flexibility has been granted, allowing for an additional one-year period for municipalities wishing to do so. The Hamoir Regional Fire Department, which is active in the communes of Condroz, is expected to switch to a fire zone by 1 July 2015, in order to ensure efficient and rapid response. Hamoir's firemen regularly travel to the Durbuy area. Until 31 December 2014, costs are therefore claimed from the Durbuy Fire Department, but as of 1 January 2015, Durbuy will depend on the Marche-en-Famenne fire zone. There is therefore a transitional period of six months, between 1 January and 1 July 2015, during which the Hamoir IRS and the Marche-en-Famenne relief zone will not have the same regime. Minister, what procedure will the SRI of Hamoir have to follow to charge for its actions in the territory normally covered by the emergency zone of Marche-en-Famenne? Is it necessary to establish an agreement between the Hamoir IRS and the Marche-en-Famenne relief zone for the transitional period to allow for the invoicing of interventions? Thank you for your clarification.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic050x.u79	Mr President, Mrs Cassart, thank you for this question. It raises a problem that is also present in other areas. Article 221 of the Civil Security Act of 15 May 2007 provides, pending the entry into force of the zones, for the municipalities to conclude agreements between themselves which regulate the financial arrangements and the implementation of the most rapid adequate assistance, as well as the arrangements for the reinforcement of personnel and equipment. Article 6 of the same Act provides for the same principle for rescue zones as soon as they enter into force. In the same vein, it is recommended that an agreement be concluded between a rescue zone and a commune. My services are currently thinking about a solution if it is not possible to reach an agreement. If there is no agreement between two zones, the law provides that the area providing the aid may charge. It's annoying for the area that has to pay, but it's an opportunity for the area that can charge. It is clear, however, that this imbalance does not lead to an agreement between two zones. We are studying how to solve this problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic050x.u80	Minister, thank you for your answers. On the one hand, you confirm that the Hamoir fire zone may have an agreement with the Marche-en-Famenne SRI until the end of June. The agreement will have to be reached because it is really from a legal point of view that the problem arises. On the other hand, you raise another important point. Since my future emergency zone is very well equipped, we wonder on what basis to charge in the event of an intervention. I myself said that at some point we will not be able to do what we want because rules will have to be established. But it is also clear that some areas that have been well equipped and have made investments cannot either be penalized and go to all areas that do not invest without having a counterpart. Minister, I am therefore looking forward to coming back to you in two or three months, as long as you and your office are looking into the matter, to see how this circular and this invoicing between zones evolve in case of a problem, in order to avoid any discrimination.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic050x.u81	Minister, you mentioned earlier, in particular the policy statement, that you provide a major role for multidisciplinary local task forces per arrondissement. They work both preventively and repressively. The involvement and flow of information to local police areas would be strengthened, including through the establishment of mixed teams with federal police and specific training programmes. After all we have been through with IS, the events in Paris are still coming today, but there are no clear conclusions yet. According to reports on the Internet, however, radicalism is being looked back in the direction of radicalism. I hear in the press today that you will wait until after the Sharia4Belgium process. I was wondering if you could clarify the state of play in the operation of the local task forces radicalism. Are there any bottlenecks? What's going well? Do things need to be redesigned? Based on what we're going through these days, we're gonna have to step up.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic050x.u82	We all know that the local authorities play an important role in combating radicalism and extremism. This should not be tackled at one level, but requires a multi-level approach. Municipalities and cities are often the first to face the consequences of radicalism and extremism at local level, but are also often best placed to see the first signs of radicalisation. They are therefore not only best placed to act against it, but also to receive the signals. Local task forces have shown in the past that they can play a key role in supporting local authorities. Also today, including in the problems of the Belgian fighters in Syria, the local task forces play an important role. I am not going to repeat how they came about. Nor will I draw any conclusions about Paris. The tasks of the local task forces have a double purpose. It concerns, on the one hand, the exchange of information between one another and with other levels and, on the other hand, the proposal of measures, which can therefore be maintained and implemented. Therefore, I regularly sit with the mayors of the municipalities who are most involved in monitoring this. All local task forces are operational and also meet regularly. More importantly, the operation of most local task forces is really at cruising speed. The local task forces shall coordinate and organise the follow-up on the ground between the participating services. The participating services in the local task forces are the Security of the State, the local and federal police, the ADIV and the OCAD. The local representatives of the intelligence and security services shall exchange information within their area. Contacts with local judicial authorities are also maintained by the various task forces. Concrete operational files are handled within the various local task forces. The division of tasks and the composition of the local task forces depend on local dynamics. That wasn't imposed. One can choose the best way of working locally. The differences in organisational form and structure between the different services encourage a certain flexibility in the way local consultation structures operate. As a result, the workings of local task forces may vary considerably. The circular of 25 September 2014 provides for an evaluation of the Radicalism Action Plan. It hasn't happened yet, but that's what's planned.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic050x.u83	In an interview you gave to De Tijd, you said that you want to eradicate radicalism with root and branch. I think that we absolutely must continue to do so. With what we are going through today in Paris, and with enlargement in Europe, we will still have to think about how we can make progress and organise ourselves even better. I am very pleased that you are taking the necessary steps.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic050x.u84	I would just like to take this opportunity to say that the projects of legislation are actually ready. I just wanted to wait for the statements in the Sharia4Belgium trial. I do not want to experience that we would not have incorporated the interpretation that the judge gives of certain things into the laws. With the issue of Jejo Bontinck, we now know that the debates could possibly be reopened. If that happens, I'm not gonna wait. Then I will immediately come forward with the legislative projects. We still have to make the balance between speed and compliance with all the elements. If the verdict does indeed, as planned, fall next week or the week after that, we will await them and test our legislative projects accordingly. If there is a delay in the process for that reason, then we will take the projects to Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic050x.u85	Mr President, Minister, within the framework of the Civil Protection Act of 31 December 1963, which constitutes the general framework for the organisation of fire services, 250 SRIs were created, 84 of which were in Wallonia. It is this pattern that has been radically changed in the context of the reform initiated in 2007. Indeed, from 2015, the operation of the fire services will be based on zonal structures whose territory is much larger than originally planned. There will be 34 emergency areas in the national territory and 14 in Wallonia. The stated objective is to provide better service to citizens, to reduce costs – which I would be very surprised to hear – and to pool as many services as possible. Very concretely, the establishment of the relief zones is also expected by 1 January 2015 with, however, a possibility of postponement of a maximum of one year left to the discretion of the authorities of the pre-areas, resulting in the loss of as many twelfths of additional funds as of months of delay. In view of the arrival of the first deadline, certain mayors, commanders and other actors directly concerned express certain uncertainties, in particular as regards federal funding and possible overall costs higher than the current cost of equal service. This reform is profound. It also amends the financial and administrative statutes and the leave system. Minister, of the 34 areas expected, how many have been operational since January 1? As far as the statutes are concerned, some latitude is left to the zones. Therefore, cannot there be any fear that agents will feel discriminated against in terms of their status and that of the neighbouring area? Is this not creating a risk of multi-speed zones? Is there not a loss of homogeneity between areas? The principle of 50/50 is enshrined in the Act of 15 May 2007. Article 7(2) states that "as long as the ratio between the resources of the municipal and federal authorities provided for under this Act is not equal to one, the municipalities of an area shall not, together, contribute more in real terms than their present contribution". Is there an agenda for achieving this ratio? Do you confirm the federal contribution? What about financial guarantees for core and complementary federal endowments? Minister, I know my questions are numerous, but there are a lot of problems with this issue in terms of practicality. It is therefore important that you can respond. Having said that, I would understand that some of my questions may remain open, conscious of the fact that you still need to work on this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic050x.u86	Mrs Cassart, thank you for your question. This reform raises questions, not problems. That is why I proposed to the chairman of this committee that regular meetings should be held only on firefighters and on the reform of the safe areas. My firm's specialists could be involved. That would be helpful. You're picking up a lot of signals, too. We could then see how to solve the problems, perhaps by modifying the royal decrees. To answer your question: 29 of the 34 emergency areas have been operational since 1 January. The remaining five will be completed between 1 April and 1 July. The Royal Decrees of 19 April 2014 on the administrative and financial status of firefighters include the majority of the provisions governing firefighters. The relief zone has some autonomy in terms of status. However, in my opinion, it remains limited. Therefore, it does not call into question the principle of a uniform status of firefighters. Previously, there were still differences between municipalities. Now, decisions can be made area by area. The principle of 50/50 in article 67 of the Civil Security Act of 15 May 2007 is not an objective in itself. This is in fact a guarantee for the municipal authorities, under which the reform of the fire services will not cost them more than they currently pay. This guarantee does not concern each municipality individually, but the overall cost of the municipalities within a relief zone. With respect to financial guarantees for federal endowments, the amounts announced for 2015 have been included in the federal budget and are not subject to fiscal savings measures that apply to the remainder of the federal budget. It is the only budget for which we have not made any savings.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic050x.u87	Your proposal to organise a special commission after a month or six weeks is interesting. Could we be notified of this via the agenda on the House's website, because I am not a member of this committee? As for what you're telling me about the status of firefighters, that's not what I heard on the ground. On the day of this committee, I will come with additional and perhaps more relevant information. I would like to compare our information, to see if there is any communication problem on the ground. Thirdly, I am pleased that the announced federal staffing has been retained. It was not easy to develop this reform, it is important to continue with the same data. I'll pass on this information.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic050x.u88	As far as the status is concerned, the Royal Decree on Discretionary Powers takes up the list, which is quite limited, since the transfer to the new status must not be too revolutionary. The municipalities can decide together how they want to operate, but the list is quite limited.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic050x.u89	Mrs Pas, you have 10 minutes to speak, but you can keep it shorter.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic050x.u90	Mr President, I can reassure you. I won't need ten minutes to raise the issue. After all, I am convinced that the Minister is aware that the application of language legislation in Brussels local authorities has been grossly violated for decades. There are several reasons for this. The recruitment policy of these Brussels local authorities is already a first problem. Secondly, there is also a lack of supervision. At the moment, the Brussels government should do so, but we can speak of an organized boycott in this area. The third major reason is that there is no effective sanctioning mechanism. I had given some figures as an example. In 2012, the latest year for which we have figures, six out of ten recruitments in Brussels municipalities are illegal in terms of meeting the language knowledge requirement. For the OCMWFs, these figures are even higher and an appalling score of eight out of ten is achieved. I do not need to draw a picture of the consequences of such a procedure for decades: there is no longer a bilingual service. In French one can always go there, often not in Dutch or in a very poor way. The examples are numerous, but I shall confine myself to a recent example. Brigitte Grouwels' husband was not served in Dutch last month when he came for a new passport and he even received a French driving licence last year. You are a competent minister, because the language law in administrative matters is a law of public order. Its competence in Brussels is a federal matter and falls within your competence. You could set up an official working group on your own initiative. I hope you are convinced that a thorough assessment of the situation there is needed. Brigitte Grouwels' husband reminded me that a number of N-VA MEPs tabled a proposal for a parliamentary committee of inquiry on this matter last year. I have not been able to look into this anymore, but I am sure you share my concern about the problem and I am very interested in the initiatives you will take to address it. Are you considering setting up an official working group to deal with the problem? If that is what you intend to do, what specific task would the working party be given, and what deadline could that be? The situation there is getting worse and worse.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic050x.u91	Mrs Pas, you know that we are very close to this problem. However, successive state reforms have also ensured that the Regions and the Communities are at the same level as the federal government. As Minister for the Interior, therefore, I cannot exercise any hierarchical control over the Brussels Government. This was one of the major achievements of the state reforms that the Regions and the Communities were at the same level as the federal government. This, of course, has its drawbacks, including that I do not have any hierarchical control over the Brussels Government with regard to compliance with language legislation. In that sense, therefore, the answer to your specific question is no. I have no authority to do so, I have no hierarchical control over the Brussels Government. We can set up working groups all we want. I want to do that if there is a real output that can bring about improvement on the ground. However, I do not have the authority to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic050x.u92	That the sixth state reform has produced little good, I was already aware of that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic050x.u93	That existed before the sixth state reform.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic050x.u94	Unfortunately, she hasn't changed much. On the contrary, she has reinforced some of the wrong things. You say that you have no power to act against the Brussels Government, which deliberately boycotts language legislation. That's a conscious strategy. Either we will have to reduce language legislation in the future, or we will simply continue our boycott. The situation is only getting worse. There are still so many cooperation agreements to implement the sixth state reform. I urge you to stand on your lines and link one to the other before something is implemented. Something must move urgently. It will certainly not come from Brussels. I'll make a motion immediately asking you to do the same.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic050x.u95	At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Barbara Pas and Mr Jan Penris and reads as follows: The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mrs Barbara Pas and the reply of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Security and Home Affairs, in charge of Great Cities and the Government of the Buildings, - whereas language legislation in administrative matters in Brussels local authorities is being violated on a large scale; - whereas the language law is in matters of public policy; - whereas the language law in administrative matters in Brussels-Capital is still a federal competence; - whereas this falls within the competence of the Minister for the Interior, asks the Minister to instruct an official working group to examine the issue of non-application of the language law in Brussels-Capital and to put forward proposals within six months to ensure that the current provisions of the language law in administrative matters relating to Brussels-Capital are applied correctly in future." A motion for recommendation was tabled by Ms. Barbara Pas and Mr. Jan Penris and reads as follows: The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Mrs Barbara Pas and the response of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Security and Interior, responsible for the Grand Cities and the Régie des Bâtiments, Whereas the legislation on the use of languages in administrative matters is to a very large extent flouted in the local administrations in Brussels; - Whereas the Law on the Use of Languages in Administrative Matters is of public policy; - Whereas the Law on the use of languages in administrative matters still constitutes a federal competence in the Brussels-Capital Region; - Whereas this matter falls within the competence of the Minister of the Interior, asks the Minister to instruct an administrative working group to address the problem of the non-application of the Law on the use of languages in the Brussels-Capital Region and to formulate, within six months, proposals to ensure the correct application of the provisions of the Law on the use of languages in administrative matters relating to the Brussels-Capital Region [[."]] A simple motion was tabled by Mr Koen Metsu. A simple motion was tabled by Mr. Koen Metsu. Motions for resolutions will be voted on at a later date b. The meeting's over. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic050x.u96	Mr President, Minister, the question I asked you last November is a result of a concern expressed by some cities and municipalities. These are cities and municipalities that have a strategic security and prevention plan and receive additional financial assistance to develop peacekeeper projects under the Activa scheme. Many peacekeepers have been hired on the basis of this funding and are concerned about their fate. It is known that these Activa measures have been regionalized since 1 January 2015 as part of the Sixth State Reform, which raises questions about maintaining funding for Activa Peacekeepers. Last July, the Belgian Forum for Urban Prevention and Security (FBPSU) sent a partially reassuring letter to cities and municipalities stating that the Activa and ALE grants would remain federal and that the federal authority could, after the transfer, under its security jurisdiction, continue to subsidise these agents in a form other than an ONSS reduction and a measure to activate the unemployment benefit. I understand that you yourself intend to continue to finance 420 euros per peacekeeper per month as part of the Strategic Security and Prevention Plans (SSPs). Although this information was rather reassuring, the municipalities had no certainty as to the envelope to be devoted to Activa measures. We are now in January 2015 and local authorities are eager to obtain clear information to reassure their agents about their ability to retain their staff. Minister, what exactly is it at the beginning of 2015? Can you confirm that the Activa Peacekeeper Grant will continue? What amount will be allocated to this grant? What form will this grant take in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic050x.u97	Mr Dispa, it is true that the previous government has failed to make timely arrangements to transform activation measures for prevention and security officers into subsidies. As a result, these activation measures remain unchanged until now. It is also true that the federal government can no longer give priority to socio-economic integration as a criterion for granting subsidies in order to support the commitment of peacekeepers by cities and municipalities, as employment policy has become a competence of the Regions since the sixth reform of the State. As far as the problem you are concerned, I took the matter back into my hands when I took up my duties and a discussion must be started with my colleague in charge of employment. The current envelope for the activation measure for peacekeepers amounts to €7.2 million. However, it covers the staff actually engaged and not the entire quota available for the cities and municipalities benefiting from this measure. Several options are on the table, which need to be discussed within the government. It is therefore premature for me to decide what form this possible subsidy could take. I need to have a discussion with the Minister of Employment on this matter. However, I can confirm that the funding provided by the Internal SPF of 420 euros per month per peacekeeper in the framework of the PSSP will remain in full in 2015.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic050x.u98	Mr. Minister, thank you for these partially reassuring clarifications. There is a guarantee of the continuation of the financing of EUR 420, which is already an important element. I understand that discussions still need to take place within the government in order to achieve a legally definitive solution. I would perhaps suggest that you ensure that the information given to the municipalities concerned is as complete as possible, either by sending them this information directly or by transiting through the Unions of Cities and Municipalities. I can tell you that in the field there is a real concern about the possibility that the municipalities have of keeping the agents in place.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic050x.u99	Debates of the European Parliament 586 by Mrs Kattrin Jadin has been converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic050x.u100	Minister, there appears to have been an incident on 16 November 2014 at a Sterigenics irradiation facility when a maintenance operation was carried out. Safety-related equipment was not available and operations were carried out with minimal protection against radiation risks. Could you confirm this information? Could you also clarify to me the exact nature of the facts? Has this incident harmed people or the environment? Have any measures been taken to limit the impact of the incident? On the other hand, I imagine that your administration carries out periodic checks in such establishments. Could you give me the details of these for Sterigenics? Had this anomaly been mentioned in previous reports? More generally, what lessons do you learn from this new incident?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic050x.u101	Mr President, Mr Nollet, I confirm this information. After a maintenance operation and while reloading of the GAMMIR I irradiator to cobalt 60 radioactive sources had begun, it was detected that the installation had not been fully locked in the safe position (recording). A metal bar attached to the irradiator physically preventing the rise of the sources had not been properly positioned. The hydraulic units allowing the rise of the sources had been cut off. This was a single defence barrier to prevent the rise of sources during reloading operations. As soon as the incident was found, the operations were immediately stopped and the procedure for recording the installation was properly completed. This event did not harm workers, the population or the environment. The PSAN conducts proactive thematic inspections based on a program established once or twice a year for this type of facility, as well as reactive inspections in the event of an incident. Bel V, the AFCN subsidiary, controls the site at least once a month. This anomaly has never occurred before and therefore does not appear in a previous report. The safety of the installations is designed on the principle of defence in depth, thus with several barriers each having to play their role independently in order to avoid an incident in the event of another barrier failing. In this case, the remaining barrier worked correctly. This incident reveals that the operator must always prepare properly for a scheduled response by ensuring that safety measures are applied on an ongoing basis. Prior to the intervention, he or she must inform and train his or her staff on the security measures in force. I can inform you that a proactive inspection of Sterigenics, on the subject of the control of safety devices, is included in the 2015 AFCN program. This inspection will certainly go back to the course of the incident as well as to the further actions taken to prevent this incident from happening again.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic050x.u102	Minister, thank you. The exercise proposed here for 2015 is extremely important, especially in this undertaking. There is a history of this. It is important to recall and exercise security measures properly, even when dealing with incidents that are not planned and for which there is no detailed procedure. Specially hazardous materials are being worked on and equipment must be available at all times.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic050x.u103	Debates of the European Parliament 610 by Mrs Zakia Khattabi has been converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic050x.u104	Mr President, Minister, I will ask you to be even more attentive than usual. Indeed, I updated my question, in view of the information that was disclosed yesterday with regard to the provisions concerning Doel 4. In my initial question, I asked you about the status of the sabotage investigation, the status of the pre-start procedures, what steps still needed to be taken and what timetable. The latter question is no longer relevant since, in the meantime, the plant has restarted. On the other hand, my question about the state of the investigation remains valid. I also asked you if it was conceivable that the reactor would restart without the identity of the offender(s) being known. I have already had this debate with your colleague, Mrs Marghem. She did not feel that there was a problem. Similarly, she said that specific measures should not be taken. I am also aware of the views of the Federal Agency, since some of its representatives have been heard by the Nuclear Safety Sub-Committee. Among the measures that have been presented to us are the double visual check, i.e. the presence of two people at the same time, the installation of cameras, etc. I have explicitly asked a question about the personnel concerned, since there is a strong suspicion that it is someone internal to the company who would have committed this sabotage, the consequences of which are quite serious, even if it did not take place in the nuclear zone. I therefore drew their attention to the fact that the person concerned had not been identified, but that this did not prevent the reboot of the plant. The officials then informed me that it was no big deal. For them, the most important was the measures taken, not the people. Yesterday, however, it was reported that thirty workers would be banned from entering the nuclear site. Why was this measure not announced at the appropriate time, when we were talking about devices such as double check. Why is it mentioned later? Is it because of information you would have received? This is not a court decision, it is a decision taken by the operator, the Federal Agency or by you. Still, it fell yesterday when it seems that the plan had been defined before. Perhaps it was part of the confidential passage of this plan. I ask you to let me know, because I believe that this is an important element. Can you explain it to me? Indeed, such a decision could have reassured the public more than the initial statements made. What is the meaning of measurement? Why do we only receive this information now? Are they thirty people? I take this opportunity to ask you if the information is correct, because the press may have been wrong. Are these people in technical unemployment or can they still work in other areas of the plant? Is this valid only at Doel 4 or on the entire Doel and Tihange site? Were these workers hired by the site or were they subcontractors? This information is not clear. I want to take advantage of my question and ask you for further clarification. Would some of the thirty still be able to come to work exceptionally? In short, you will understand that I need as much clarification as possible, because the information fell when we had already received answers about the measures taken and that was not part of what was said. Why does this investigation last so long? Why is this measure suddenly complementary to others?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic050x.u105	Mr Nollet, I think the minister will answer the questions you asked, but with your update and follow-up to yesterday's information, you will not receive your answers today. Or only partially. I was told it wasn't normal procedure.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic050x.u106	I understand: I said it myself when I started. But it's not something that happened this morning or an hour before the commission; it's something that happened yesterday. Of course, I will understand that the minister does not respond to certain elements as precisely as the statement of my question. Perhaps he still has some elements in connection with this information from yesterday. For the rest, we will see in the exchange.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic050x.u107	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will try to respond to certain points and I will provide you with information on others later. Why is the ban not included among the measures announced by Mr Marghem? In my opinion, these are two different things. On the one hand, it is necessary to review the procedures: by applying the procedures, see how to better ensure safety. That's the purpose of the project. On the other hand, it is a review of safety by assessing the degree of confidence to be attributed to certain personnel. In fact, the safety certification granted to individuals remains valid for years. It's an aspect that needs to be revisited. An example everyone thinks: it is not because I have a security certificate today that, in two or three years' time, I will not become a radicalized Muslim. That's not excluded. This validity should be reviewed regularly with respect to staff working in key positions. According to my information, this would concern both plant personnel and subcontractors.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic050x.u108	In fact, among the thirty people are the two categories?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic050x.u109	Yes, both. It is obvious that this staff assessment must be carried out not only for the reactor where the problem occurred, but also for any site where a problem could also arise in the future. In my view, these procedures must be applicable to all plants. The judicial investigation is still under way. It's confidential. I don't know why she's taking so long. This is the secret of the investigation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic050x.u110	But as far as the thirty people are concerned. Who started this? This was not part of the original plan. Is that you?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic050x.u111	No, it's not me. Without being sure, I think it's AFCN.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic050x.u112	That's weird. They were received in the sub-committee and this was not addressed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic050x.u113	I will provide you with information on this point.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic050x.u114	Live then. So I don't have to ask you again. It's perfect.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic050x.u115	Then we come to question No. 634 by Mr Penris.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic050x.u116	Mr President, I have spent 15 years in a chair, although in another House. I know what you're going through right now. I propose that this question be converted into a written question, in order to buy some time, Minister. My other question will be asked later, if only to give Pallieterke a scoop.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic050x.u117	Debates of the European Parliament 634 is converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic050x.u118	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, on March 19, my colleague Valérie Caverenne had questioned your predecessor, Mr. Wathelet, about Class G driving licences. Since 15 September 2006, a specific driving licence has been required for the operation of agricultural and forestry tractors and agricultural mobile equipment. This category includes agricultural and forestry tractors and their trailers, as well as vehicles registered as agricultural equipment, motoculturer or harvester. However, drivers born before 1 October 1982 must not hold any driving licences for vehicles of category G, as well as drivers who are not entered in the population register, in the register of foreigners or in the waiting register of a Belgian municipality. The brochure published by the SPF Mobility on driving licences for agricultural tractors states that the driving licence of category G can only be used for the driving of vehicles registered as agricultural and forestry tractors and used for agricultural and forestry purposes. If the agricultural or forestry tractor is not used in the agricultural or forestry operation, the driver must hold a driver's licence B, B+E, C1, C1+E, C or C+E, depending on the maximum permissible mass of the tractor or assembly. Mr. Wathelet then reassured Ms. Caverenne that not all persons born before October 1, 1982 had to have a permit to drive an agricultural tractor or a slow vehicle up to a speed of 40 km/h. He had told him that the circumstances in which the agricultural tractor was used did not matter, whether it was for agricultural purposes or for road transport. With respect to persons born after October 1, 1982, Mr. Wathelet had indicated that a driver's licence is still mandatory, either a G licence, only in connection with an agricultural or forestry operation, or a B or C licence, depending on the mass of the tractor, if the vehicle is not used on an agricultural or forestry operation. This also applies to the operation of a slow vehicle. He had also referred to the example of the retired farmer, who was supposed to have been born before that date, so he does not need a permit to carry out other transport services. Recently, however, some persons born before 1 October 1982 had been subjected to roadside checks while driving a tractor and the latter had been put in default by the inspection services. So, Minister, what about this category of people? Why are people born before October 1, 1982 now subject to a fine? What about what Mr Wathelet said six months ago? Can you confirm them and, if necessary, inform your responsible departments? Obviously, information did not percolate.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic050x.u119	Mr Clarinval, in accordance with Article 1, 9° of the Royal Decree of 23 March 1998 on driving licences, the function of agricultural or forestry tractor "is essentially resident in its traction power, which is specially known to pull, push, carry or operate certain tools, machines or trailers, intended for use in agricultural or forestry operations and whose use or transport on the road of persons or goods or for the traction on the road of vehicles used for the transport of persons or goods is merely accessory". According to Article 2, 15° of the same Order, category G applies only to agricultural and forestry tractors and their trailers, as well as to vehicles registered as agricultural equipment, motoculturer or harvester. However, it should be added that, in accordance with Article 1(1),(1),(5) of the Royal Decree of 15 March 1968, vehicles registered as category T, i.e. wheeled agricultural or forestry tractors, are all limited to a maximum speed of 40 km/h. They can therefore be considered as slow vehicles. These, referred to in Article 4, 12e of the Royal Decree of 23 March 1998 on driving licences, are defined in Article 1(2), 75 of the Royal Decree of 15 March 1968 on the general regulation of the technical conditions to be met by motor vehicles, their trailers, their components and their safety accessories: "Slow vehicle: any vehicle whose nominal maximum speed cannot, by construction and of origin, exceed 40 km/h. Any transformation that results in exceeding this maximum speed removes from such a vehicle the character of a slow vehicle." Second: "Any trailer operated exclusively by the vehicles described in point 1". In conclusion, the driver of an agricultural vehicle born before 1 October 1982 is still exempt from the obligation to hold and carry a driving licence, even if he does not use the vehicle on the farm. The vehicle shall not be considered as category G until it exceeds 40 km/h. If some persons have been verbalized, this may be the case where the agricultural or forestry tractor was not used for this purpose and it was not a slow vehicle, as previously defined. In this case, the vehicle is classified in category B, C1 or C, according to its maximum permissible mass.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic050x.u120	Excuse me, it's technical, but in the agricultural world, it's important! Mr Minister, we therefore agree that when we are dealing with a slow vehicle and we were born before 1 October 1982, we do not need this permit. However, according to my information, there were reports against drivers in this category, because they were on the road. Being on a road or on a meadow doesn't matter to me. Clearly, there may still be some confusion in some police services. I would simply remind the various agencies responsible for this, that it is not the presence on the road or in the fields that matters, but the fact that it is above or below 40 km/h. I thank you, in any case, for this very technical answer, but very clear.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic050x.u121	Questions Nos 641, 643, 646 and 648 by Mr Goffin will be converted into written questions. Interpellation No. Question No 7, by Mrs Pas and interpellation No 7 Mrs Pas 8 has been postponed at her request. Debates of the European Parliament Mr De Groote's 672 was postponed. Debates of the European Parliament 674 by Mr Blanchart was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic050x.u122	Minister, a recent incident took place at the Tihange 3 nuclear power plant. As since then, a series of information has been provided, I'm just going to ask you if you have any new elements.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic050x.u123	I'm sorry, but I don't have any new information to share with you. Perhaps you could speak to Mrs Marghem, who is also competent in this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic050x.u124	I totally understand. I asked Mrs Marghem yesterday. She didn't have more elements to provide me with.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic050x.u125	Question No 682 by Mrs Cassart-Mailleux is adjourned. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Jadin's 699 has been converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Blanchart's 700 has been postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic050x.u126	Mr. Chair, Minister, with this question, I come back to a matter that was recently discussed: the issue of the purchase of Smith & Wesson weapons in 2010-2011 by the federal police, and the follow-up to it. At the time of the announcement of the choice of the federal police in favour of this US-based weapons factory, to the detriment of the FN Herstal, I had expressed doubts as to the merits of the arguments put forward. These doubts appear to have been justified since it was subsequently found that legislation regulating public procurement has not been complied with, and that an investigation into corruption was initiated against two police officers charged with forgery, use of forgery and breach of the Public Procurement Act. Minister, what elements would this investigation have updated, if you could bring them up to date? Another subject of surprise, we recently learned from the press that some 1,600 Smith & Wesson pistols had to be sent back to the manufacturer for technical failure. In other words, the weapons recommended and selected by federal police specialists, considering that the weapons produced by the FN were not appropriate, were hardware that did not meet the requirements of the specifications. My second question is: What about this technical problem? Is there a cost to the budget of the interior? Finally, beyond what is likely to be called a fraud, I would like to know whether this has led to a reflection and whether, as I wish, the book of standards has been revised to specify the type of weapons that can be used by our police officers, and above all how the police and the federal police can contract. Thank you, Minister, for the elements of your response.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic050x.u127	Mr Miller, I remember, when we had the first discussion about Smith & Wesson weapons, that I learned a lot of new words in French. For your first question, the investigation has not yet been completed. This means that the federal police are not kept informed of the results. We have to wait for this investigation to be completed. With regard to the technical problem, I can tell you that two safety issues have been identified. The first concerns the safety of the impactor, or more precisely the metal cup that maintains the safety spring. Some cups have a deformation such that it allows the spring to decentralize in its housing. In some cases, this may lead to a deformation of the spring leading to the impossibility of burning. The second problem concerns the organs of the target (the pin of sight and the handlebar). This is a dimensional tolerance problem between the arond tail of the slide and some organs. You see the new words I learned in French. The clamping of the handlebars is then insufficient and makes them able to move as a result of the shooting, which can go as far as the loss of the handlebars. Federal police gunners conducted tests to determine whether the operation was impaired in such a case. Turns out the weapon remains functional without its target organs. However, the downgrading of the target organs may mislead the police officer as to the accuracy of his shooting. With regard to the cost to the budget of the Interior, the replacement parts and the machine for testing the target body having been provided by the successful tenderer in the context of the call for guarantees, the additional costs incurred relate only to the full time equivalents which it will have been necessary to mobilise for the collection, delivery and revision of weapons. These additional costs have been requested but have not yet been calculated. To answer your last question about the revision of the standards book, at the technical level, the weapon corresponds to the imperative aspects described in the specifications, as well as to the minimum standard. There is currently no need to revise the standard for individual weapons.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic050x.u128	Minister, thank you for all these elements of the answer. I also learned a few words in French. However, with regard to the last question I asked you, it is true that the weapons correspond to the specifications, but the results of the investigation must also be taken into account. Everything suggests that the specifications were written so that Smith & Wesson was chosen.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic050x.u129	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Jadin's 751 question will be converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Deseyn has also converted 784 into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Pas 802 has been postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic050x.u130	Mr President, Minister, I am going to ask this question, I have no choice. Following the death of Queen Fabiola, a week of national mourning was proclaimed. This should have the effect of protocol that flags should hang half-sticks on all public buildings throughout the country. We can still understand the fact that the federal tricolor was half-colored. In Flanders, however, the lion flags and the provincial flags, together with the municipal flags and even the district flags had to go half down. In many local governments a republican majority is currently working which has little or no affinity with the Belgian royal family. My co-worker even wrote a capital letter in Belgium. In view of the principle of local autonomy, it should not be wrong not to deal with the federal protocol missions in this respect. You will tell us later whether or not you have given these orders. The same authorities may also find it difficult to wear a federal tricolor at ceremonies where this is still prescribed by federal law. A protocolary freedom for our governing bodies is therefore imperative. Minister, I would like to remind you that a number of boards of this protocolary freedom may have already taken advantage of by removing the photographs of the royal couple in the district, municipal and city houses in Flanders. What steps are you going to take as Minister of the Interior to free the Länder and local authorities from the so-called protocolary compulsion? I look forward to your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic050x.u131	Mr President, Mr Penris, this is a matter of competence. Prescription of the band that a mayor has to go around his loins is a Flemish affair. The hanging of the flags and the order of the flags on the town halls is a Flemish matter. Lucky for you, I'd say. As regards the flag and the flag half-stick following the death of Queen Fabiola, I quote you literally from the letter I sent to the various administrations in the country: "In this respect, following seven days of national mourning and pursuant to Article 2 of the Royal Decree of 5 July 1974 on the flag of public buildings, I ask you to ensure that the national flag on your buildings is hung half-stick during that period. I added: "The other flags may also hang half pole." The authorities were thus given the freedom, in accordance with the relevant legislation, to decide for themselves what to do with the other flags, alongside the national ones. This was true for each level of government, so both the municipalities and the Regions were allowed to interpret it themselves.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic050x.u132	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I'll confront some local authorities with that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic050x.u133	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Demon's 837 was postponed. Mrs Temmerman is not present, so I am asking her question No. 849 postponement. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Degroote's 916 will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic050x.u134	Mr President, did Mrs Temmerman ask to postpone her question?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic050x.u135	No, that's my choice. You know that now.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic050x.u136	That's how we get (...).
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic050x.u137	No, I'm not.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic050x.u138	Mr Minister, the US authorities are opposed to a strengthening of the Convention on Nuclear Safety (CSN) and are apparently trying to put pressure on the European Union. They are aimed in particular at Belgium, which, if it does not surrender, could be deprived of uranium supply for the Mol nuclear reactor by the United States. Mol is one of the world's largest producers of radioactive material for hospitals. By doing so, the United States is playing a scandalous blackmail. Without uranium, it is impossible to produce the radioisotopes that are used in cancer treatments. Minister, could you provide us with the information you have on this file? Are American threats proven? What about it? What is the government's position on this issue? Has a consultation with the PSAN been established? What are the elements that emerge from these meetings? If these threats are activated, what steps have you taken to ensure that the health of thousands of people is not affected?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic050x.u139	Mr Nollet, these data on uncertainty about the supply of uranium from the United States are not available at the central level of my department. This parliamentary question is not a matter for me but for my colleague, Mrs Marghem. Of course, this answer does not help you. Nevertheless, allow me to wish you a happy birthday, for I have learned that you are celebrating it today.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic050x.u140	This will teach me to ask questions on my birthday! Thank you for this gift, Minister! I'll turn to Mrs. Marghem. We are still in a period of running-in in understanding the distribution of skills. I was thinking – I am also speaking to the secretariat of the commission – that when one question was addressed to a minister rather than another in relation to his or her jurisdiction, it was reported so that it could be withdrawn and addressed to the appropriate minister. That would prevent us from moving around for nothing. I shall rest the question with your colleague. On the other hand, yesterday I asked Mrs Marghem questions, although they should have been addressed to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic050x.u141	Security is one of my skills. Your question is about supply.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic050x.u142	Yesterday, when I asked him about dimensions related to energy production, the mere use of the word AFCN led to a reference to your department. The information is contained in the record in my possession. Minister, it would be useful to clarify this in order to avoid being referred from one commission to another. Similarly, if the question is not addressed to the competent minister, could the minister or his secretariat not redirect it to the competent minister?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic050x.u143	Interpellation No. Mrs Pas 12 has been postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic050x.u144	Mr. President, Minister, absenteeism at work because of illness is a constant concern of private and public companies. The police force has not escaped the phenomenon and has for many years recorded high figures in terms of absenteeism. In the area where I am happy to sit anyway, they reach records! Since 2004, the Federal Police has developed an action plan to reduce absenteeism at work. Medical checks have been optimized. Initiatives have been taken to provide more adequate medical and psychosocial guidance to staff and to maintain them in good physical condition. Specific trainings related to absenteeism have also been set up. In the context of this fight against absenteeism, the police area Houille-Semois, which covers the commune in which I serve as mayor, recently requested the services of Medex, the administration of medical expertise. Medex responds to requests from two types of clients, which correspond to two different types of controls: on the one hand, the Medex-affiliated administrations for the control of sick absences and, on the other hand, the federal public service administrations. Workers who belong to the first category are checked by doctors who come to their homes or to whom they are led to surrender themselves. Those in the second category must go to the medical centre on which the administration depends. Desirous of optimising its absenteeism control system, the Houille-Sémois police zone expressed its willingness to obtain affiliate status, but was denied by Medex who declared that he was not momentarily interested in obtaining such aggregation. Minister, why does Medex refuse to take over the control of the police services, including the police zone in question? However, they are part of the public service. In addition, can you tell me the exact nature and reasons of the difference made by Medex between the so-called affiliated administrations and the others?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic050x.u145	Mr Clarinval, this is not the first time that your question has been asked, since Medex has already refused his services to other police areas. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that Medex falls within the competence of my colleague from Health, who can answer you more fully. However, I can provide you with the following information. In order to be able to carry out medical checks of a police zone, Medex should legally apply to be approved for this purpose by the Director of the Police Medical Service and therefore meet the various criteria set out in Circular GPI54 on the Integrated Police of 9 January 2007. It has come back to me that Medex is obliged to limit the number of medical checks carried out not only for budgetary reasons but also and above all because the number of independent doctors ready to carry out medical checks is clearly decreasing, given the shortage of general practitioners. For the rest, I'll send you back to Mrs. De Block.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic050x.u146	Minister, thank you for this partial answer. I'll question the Minister of Health. What you're telling me is nevertheless interesting. Indeed, we still have the impression that it is rather Medex who is not interested in having "clients" in addition. It is therefore necessary to understand the disarray in which police areas like ours find themselves, since we have almost no solution to control absenteeism at work. In our country, more than 10% of staff are constantly ill. I don't know if you realize what it means to run a police area with 10% fewer personnel. Clearly, there is a problem and I would like you to see with your health colleague if there is no way to provide assistance via Medex to the local police areas that are facing this particularly difficult situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic050x.u147	Mr President, how are the work organized? If you'll allow me, I can work for another 15 minutes. There are a few more questions from Mr Clarinval, Mr Metsu and Mr Nollet. I think that is the question. Mr Nollet has already replied in writing.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic050x.u148	Mr President, point 67 consisted of a written question for which I had no answer and which I therefore turned into an oral question. However, if the minister could provide me with a written answer, I would be content with it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic050x.u149	I can give you my answer immediately.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic050x.u150	Minister, the Walloon Tourism Code and its appendices state that all tourist accommodation must be equipped with a generalised system for automatic fire detection by point detector. The installation of this type of device shall be carried out by an installer certified and approved by a Type A inspection body. Following the visit of the municipal fire control services, a hotelier was sent a series of modifications to be made within his establishment in order to bring it into line with the standards in force. He then set up an installation of automatic detectors in good form, which was refused in a later inspection. In question: the non-wired nature of the installation, contrary to the NBN S21.100 standard, which explicitly states that any installation must consist of three essential elements: sensors, a detection centre to give warning and a network of electrical wires and cables. At present, after an unsuccessful attempt to appeal to the court, this person is still without the certificate requested from the municipal services. Minister, according to some sources, it appears that the NBN S21.100 standard is currently under discussion in the federal government. What about it? Do you not think, moreover, that this standard should be revised to take account of technological advances, such as non-wired systems? Thank you in advance for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic050x.u151	Thank you for your technical question. She also calls for a fairly technical answer. The federal level, including the Federal Internal Public Service, is not responsible for the creation or revision of technical standards. Indeed, the Belgian technical standards are developed, monitored and developed within the framework set up by the Office for Standardization (NBN), which is an autonomous body with legal personality. The Act of 3 April 2003 on standardization sets out, inter alia, the various tasks entrusted to the Office of Standardization. At present, NBN S21.100, version 1986, has been the subject of a proposal for a consequential amendment by an ad hoc working group mandated by the Committee on Standardization (Commission NBN CEN/TC72 Detection). This proposed revision has been accepted by the NBN Board of Directors under a new name that I will not read you all the abbreviations. These draft standards are currently under public investigation until February 28, 2015. As determined by the NBN, everyone can comment on a draft standard during their public investigation period. In the revision projects, the content of the NBN S21.100 standard has been radically redesigned, including technological advances such as linear smoke optic detectors, suction systems and multi-criteria detectors. However, the fire detection and alarm systems with interconnected wireless components have not yet been detailed in this draft standards. The revision of standards is an ongoing task of the Standards Commissions in order to adapt them to innovations, but without jeopardising the necessary level of quality and safety. The development of requirements for technological advances requires a time of experimentation that allows useful and important lessons to be learned. Finally, it is up to the Standards Commission to decide whether a technology is sufficiently proven to be integrated into a standard.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic050x.u152	Minister, I thank you for this answer and note that there has not yet been any progress on non-wire technology. I will invite you to take note of this new legislation being prepared in the Committee on Standardization.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic050x.u153	Mr. Chairman, Minister, the Doel site overview does not correspond to a humorous overflight, as in Tihange, or media, as directed by RTL. The question relates to the fact that the Doel site was overflew by a drone on Saturday, 20 December. Many questions arise as a result of this incident and are clearly within your competence: safety. Can you describe the events and how they were detected? Could the authors have been identified? What are the possible reasons for such an act? What connection do you make between this overflight and the re-launch of reactor 4, even before the perpetrator of the malicious act is known? Can there be a connection to the 30 people we mentioned in a previous question? Can you recall the legal framework for the overflight of nuclear power plants by a drone? Is there a link between this overflight and the overflights of nuclear power plants in France? They were quite numerous, concentrated in time and organized. Is this the first overflight of this type of power plant? If there were others, when did they date? Can you explain to us what follow-up you intend to give to this incident? What specific measures have been taken? Have specific monitoring measures been adopted for and by other power plants? What immediate response measures are planned if a drone was to be re-detected above one of our power stations?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic050x.u154	Mr President, as soon as the overflight of drones over nuclear sites was observed in France, the AFCN called for greater vigilance over the entire nuclear sector, in close consultation with the OCAM. Since then, only one drone has been seen in our country over the Doel nuclear power plant on 20 December 2014, the one you have just mentioned. A RTL-TVI drone also flew near the Tihange power plant but did not fly over it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic050x.u155	And before?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic050x.u156	No. It was in France that the drone overflight was observed for the first time. When the drone was seen over Doel, the nuclear power plant immediately notified the competent authorities of the incident, the police and the AFCN. A complaint has also been filed against X by Electrabel and legal action is under way. Until this investigation is completed, we cannot rule on the identity or motivation of the perpetrator of this incident. Following this incident, the increased vigilance of the nuclear sector vis-à-vis drones was confirmed. With regard to the overflight of nuclear sites and other critical infrastructure, my colleague Minister Galant is competent. AFCN will consult with the Mobility and Transport FPS and other relevant authorities to strengthen regulations against overflights of nuclear sites, including drones.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic050x.u157	Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic050x.u158	Mr Vanvelthoven is not here. His question No. 1056 is considered to be withdrawn in accordance with Rule 127 (10) of the Rules of Procedure. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Pas (COM). - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Questions Nos 1064 and 1096 by Mrs Temmerman have been postponed. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Van Hecke's 1110 was postponed. Debates of the European Parliament 1142 by Mrs Schepmans is withdrawn. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Yüksel's 1144 was postponed. It is an amazing, but also a fine observation that we have met a deadline today, even though I did not think we would succeed. This is often the case in politics.
