ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic157x.u1	Mr President, the press has echoed an increase in the number of bonus plans. In addition, the Council of Ministers decided to increase the amount of tax-exempt benefits from €3,130 to €3,200. This increase in the exemption is intended to strengthen the attractiveness of the system. What is the budgetary impact envisaged for such a measure? What was the Finance Inspectorate's analysis of the note submitted to the Council of Ministers? What compensation do you imagine to finance this measure?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic157x.u2	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Nollet, as indicated in the file submitted to the Finance Inspectorate, the impact of the upward revision of the amount of benefits that can be exempt from tax under the so-called non-recurring results-related benefits can be considered neutral. This is explained by two factors. On the one hand, the bonus cannot replace an existing salary and must therefore be paid in principle as "extra salary". On the other hand, the additional benefit can be considered as deductible professional expenses. However, this lower income is linked to the deductibility offset by social contributions linked to the benefits to be paid. Thus, the lowest tax revenues should be offset by an increase in social contributions. As a result, no compensation has been provided. You know that, and I thus meet your legitimate question: the budget is a forecast of expenditure and revenue and may be adjusted, if necessary, on the basis of any assessment of the measures taken. On the other hand, I can confirm that the Finance Inspectorate gave a favourable opinion, stating that there was no objection to this measure or to the way it was organised. For further information, I therefore invite you to put a question to the Minister of Finance in due course, in the appropriate case. In my view, this is a tax measure, but it certainly will not have escaped you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic157x.u3	Mr Minister, I did not escape that. On the other hand, I am disturbed because you consider that this measure has a neutral impact. When your collaborator responded to Le Soir on 14 March 2015 to the question of what was the estimate of the budgetary cost of the measure, he explained that the cost of the measure had not yet been quantified and that it was imperative to compensate for the shortfall by new revenue. The principle was clear: there was a loss of profits. Here you say it's neutral. So there is a small discrepancy between what was said at the time and what is said now. I remain convinced that there will be a budgetary impact. Your co-worker said so. And now you say the impact is neutral. I'm not sure I understand.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic157x.u4	Mr Nollet, I do not think there is any difference between the comments made by the staff member and my answer. Compensation may be linked to social contributions. It was not said in the press that it was purely fiscal. In the overall budget, compensation is seen as generally neutral.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic157x.u5	So there is a compensation to balance, which I think is more coherent. But what is the cost without compensation? Or what is the use of compensation? So I can assess the extent of what is at stake. I understand that this is neutral because there is compensation. But what is the magnitude of one of the two columns? The compensation or the cost? That's the question. [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic157x.u6	I understood that this was balanced, but it was not the subject of my question. I wanted to know the cost before and after balancing.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic157x.u7	This cost cannot really be quantified at this stage. It is necessary to take into account the extent, and consequently, according to the principle of communicating vessels, the neutral compensation that will be established. We find ourselves in a budget with an amplified measure.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic157x.u8	So there's a cost, even if it's offset elsewhere. What is the magnitude of this cost? It's simple.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic157x.u9	When you launch a "photovoltaic" policy, you don't know how many panels will be placed on a year. You may not be able to quantify the costs of subsidies until you start a year. I can't answer you until the budget year is over. I used to take an example at random.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic157x.u10	Mr President, I remain very dubious, even outside this example.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic157x.u11	Mr President, in the Minister's interview with La Libre Belgique on Friday, 20 March, he said: "We discovered wool stockings in some departments." It is always very interesting that the Minister of Budget discovers reserves! My questions are therefore very simple. What are these wool stockings? In which departments have they been found and what amounts have been identified? Minister, I am not asking you to answer that a budget has been tabled. I know that. I would just like to know what the wool stockings you referred to in the press article are.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic157x.u12	Mr President, in the interview to which Mr Nollet refers, granted to La Libre Belgique on the day after the receipt of the report of the Monitoring Committee in March 2015, I indicated, in response to a question on the efforts to be made in the context of budgetary control, that low wool had been discovered in some departments thanks to a careful analysis carried out by the employees. "Low wool" also means understanding the ability to achieve additional savings without affecting the quality of services provided by different departments. The Council of Ministers has thus, within the framework of budgetary control, validated proposals for additional savings in primary expenditure totalling EUR 17.5 million and EUR 7.5 million for public social security institutions. These savings will apply to operating and investment appropriations, including strategic cells, taking into account the need to complete the projects planned for 2015. In addition, the analysis carried out under budgetary control has also highlighted possible compensation within certain budgets to finance new initiatives. I have no doubt that we will have the opportunity, next week or later according to Parliament's agenda for budgetary control, to discuss these aspects in more detail. Rationalization policies that are carried out in a positive manner without necessarily affecting staff allow for some savings. The circular which was sent to all 130 public institutions at the end of October and the beginning of November by me to restrict the so-called "end-of-year" expenditure has led to positive effects in terms of savings. No one will have escaped that it may happen that we are trying to use budget queues at the end of the year in a particular department that does not necessarily need them in the current year. We saw a return of that. That's what I wanted to express through the interview you're referring to.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic157x.u13	Minister, your answer is very generic, when my question was very specific. It was intended to know, by department, the amounts identified. I will not argue any more about this, but I would like to anticipate the work of the budgetary adjustment and ask you to come at that time with the precise list; this will save us time. Could you at this time present the list, department by department, rather than stay in global terms as you do here? Otherwise, we will have to make the request at the committee meeting in 15 days. That gives you some time to draw up this list, otherwise I will ask you again later! As much as allow you to prepare yourself for this work as best you can!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic157x.u14	Question No 3417 by Mr Frédéric Daerden is postponed.
