ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic220x.u1	There is a misunderstanding about the topical debate. At the Conference of Presidents this morning, they asked for that debate to be held at 2:00 p.m. After the opinions of the Council of State, the debate on pensions in plenary was postponed. There is therefore a topical debate as well as several questions by Mr Deseyn, Mrs Pas and Mr Deseyn. Dedecker, Gilkinet, Van der Maelen, Crusnière, Van Biesen and Mme Wilmès. At the Conference of Presidents this morning, it was asked to hold this topical debate at 2 p.m. because of the discussion on pensions, but I have been informed in the meantime that the discussion on pensions is postponed after obtaining the opinions of the Council of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic220x.u2	Mr President, when there is an agreement to discuss a given subject at a given time, it is complicated to change agendas at the last minute. We all came running today. The committee has a unanimous agreement, we are not going to change our entire programme now.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic220x.u3	All right, so the debate will take place at 3:00 p.m. I will not have any procedural debates here. At 15:00 we will begin the topical debate on Greece. If that is the way it is agreed, then we must abide by it. I will not have a debate on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic220x.u4	Could we not have another room by 3:00 p.m., if possible? Given the smallness of the place here and when I see the number of people...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic220x.u5	All rooms are occupied, I can't change rooms. We'll see you at 3:00.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic220x.u6	The newspapers are currently full of the debt crisis in Greece, which cost every Fleming an average of EUR 600. There is no mention of the fact that a large number of them go to Wallonia every year. I asked you a question about this not long ago. You will forgive me, because in the meantime there are a lot of new facts, that I will come back to that question. A first new fact is that the Prime Minister of Flanders, Mr Bourgeois, who refused to map these transfers at first, will now order a study on these transfers of wealth. In fact, the Prime Minister wants these transfers monitored permanently. A second new fact is that a new study has been published by the University of Namur. According to that study, transfers from Flanders to Wallonia would amount to 7.8 billion a year. Another result other than the result obtained from previous studies. Finally, a remarkable new fact since I asked you a question about this is that your parliamentary group leader, Mr Vuye, supported by Mr Veerle Wouters, recently had a free gallery published on the Knack site. In it they launch a call to clarify the transfers. A few quotes from that column I do not want to deny you: "Solidarity must be transparent and encourage responsibility'; "Comparison of research centres' studies is particularly difficult. The methodology is too different. The greatness of the transfers therefore varies from study to study. These miraculously different research results show that the money flows within Belgium are not transparent. The Belgian house is therefore a barnyard that does not know its equal. Even cash flows are difficult to map.... Fair and efficient interregional solidarity must meet three key concepts: simplicity, transparency and accountability. And in Belgium this is not the case at all. So there is a certain amount of movement in relation to the problem of transfers. Hence my question as to whether things can move at federal level. Is the federal administration also prepared to cooperate in the study announced by the Flemish Government but still refused? Will the necessary information be provided? Will they also carry out studies in this area themselves? Will there also be a permanent monitoring from the federal level, following Flemish example? Secondly, Minister, will you instruct your administration to examine how to simplify and make more transparent this interregional solidarity, as both members of the N-VA Chamber, and how to respond? Finally, when I questioned you about this last time, you said that, as a result of the sixth state reform, inter-Western transfer flows will decline. No figures were given for this claim. Are you basing yourself on concrete study work by the administration? If so, can we get those calculations and figures? If that is not the case, will you consider having this examined and calculated by your administration?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic220x.u7	Mrs Pas, like you, I understand that Prime Minister Geert Bourgeois will order a study into the transfers of funds within the Belgian federal state. This was also apparent from his answer to the parliamentary question by your Flemish colleague Stefaan Sintobin. If the sub-governments ask for detailed tax figures, I will look at this question in depth within the framework of, on the one hand, public administration, but, on the other hand, certainly also in the context of privacy law. Within this framework, the two elements are important in this context, and I will then decide whether or not certain data can be provided. So far, let me be quite clear, the federal government has not yet received such a question. Of course, as in other cases, the federal government will adopt a constructive attitude to cooperate with the regional authorities and to provide the information we can provide within the framework outlined above. The claim that the interregional figures are falling is not based on FPS Finance's own calculations or calculations. This conclusion is the result of recent research by the think tank VIVES. In 2018, according to the VIVES study, the transfers would decrease by 4,68 % or 348 million euros.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic220x.u8	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. It seems logical to me that you will provide the requested information to your colleague, Mr Bourgeois, if he needs it. However, I have not received an answer to my question as to whether you are thinking of a study yourself and whether you yourself, like the members of the N-VA Chamber, will ask for more transparency and simplicity. I hope that I do not have to ask four questions, like my colleague, Mr Sintobin, before you, like Prime Minister Bourgeois, begin to map the transfers. You say the transfers will be reduced by the sixth state reform. You rely on a calculation of VIVES. According to their calculations, this would be EUR 348 million, but of course there will still be several billions a year. In fact, VIVES has completely different figures and maps the transfers completely differently from all kinds of other studies. If we do not have a uniform method of calculation or proper basis for the transfers, then it cannot be discussed properly. By refusing to provide transparency yourself, you must establish and agree with the members of the N-VA Chamber that Belgium will remain, in terms of transfers, a coffer that does not know its equal, in order to repeat it in their terms.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic220x.u9	To be continued, no doubt. I experienced the first study, in 1979, by Paul van Rompuy and the late Albert Verheirstraeten. Then everyone wondered how they got those numbers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic220x.u10	Mr President, Minister, following the complaint from a nursing home, the Court of Justice of the European Union will shortly be asked to rule on the exemption currently available to nursing homes in respect of VAT. If the Court were to speak out against this exemption, the residents' bills could, according to some estimates, increase substantially. We are talking about amounts ranging from 1,500 to 1,800 euros per month. Rest and nursing homes are among the subjects that have been regionalized in the context of the sixth reform of the State. In response to a topical question, the Flemish Minister responsible for this sector, Mr Vandeurzen, expressed his wish to organise a proactive consultation on the subject with the federal government. Minister, what benefits could be subject to VAT? What would be the gain for the federal state? Do you have any estimates of price increases for residents of nursing homes? In the case of a conviction by Belgium, how do you intend to adapt the legislation? Will you respond to Mr Vandeurzen's wish and organise a meeting on the subject with the federated entities before the final judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union falls?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic220x.u11	Mr Minister, anticipating the treatment of the Les Jardins de Jouvence case against the Belgian State, the press mentions the fact that the VAT exemption for rest homes would be called into question, albeit not entirely for additional services, such as the provision of meals and other services. The question referred for a preliminary ruling concerns only service flats. The question therefore distinguishes between, on the one hand, the provision of housing where an elderly person can live independently and, on the other hand, the various optional services provided to the residents of the service flat and to non-residents, such as the provision of food and beverages in a bar or restaurant. Minister, is there a risk that, although the question referred for a preliminary ruling relates only to service flats, the Court of Justice's reply will have an effect on the scope of the VAT exemption for rest homes? Does the VAT Directive allow a distinction to be made in the application of the VAT exemption between service flats set up by public bodies or non-profit organisations recognised by the public authorities, on the one hand, and commercial companies, on the other hand? Such a distinction can still be found in other services, such as the provision of education. In this distinction, only commercial companies would be subject to VAT. What is the Belgian Government's position in case C-335/14 before the Court of Justice?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic220x.u12	Mr President, Minister, residents of rest homes and flat services have thus far been exempted from VAT on accommodation and surcharges charged. The Court of Justice of the European Union could decide to change this situation and to remove this exemption partially or totally. The decision is expected to fall before the end of the year. Medical care is not involved. These include extra supplements and services such as restaurant, hairdresser or laundry fees. For residents of nursing homes, this would involve paying, where appropriate, 12% meal taxes or 6% accommodation charges. The federal government's funding of care for patients in need of heavy care is also a question. Some rest homes, if not sufficiently subsidized, would be forced to raise their prices to get out of it. Mr Minister, can you inform us of developments in the VAT exemption case at the Court of Justice of the European Union? How are the discussions going? What benefits would they be subject to VAT? Since the policy of the elderly has been transferred to the federated entities, do you intend to contact them in order to organise a consultation?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic220x.u13	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will try to rise above the sound of the bell that announces the beginning of the plenary session. Institutions whose purpose is to provide care for the elderly are exempt from VAT. That's the principle. This exemption is aimed at both bodies governed by public law and private law recognised by the competent authority, irrespective of their legal form, such as non-profit organisations, etc. This exemption applies not only to the care of the elderly in old people's homes or care centres, but also to service flats or assistance homes. Moreover, the exemption applies to all services offered to residents, i.e. both services to be provided or insured, and services that are or may be offered optionally. In order to settle the dispute between "Les Jardins de Jouvence" and the Belgian State, it is necessary to determine whether the care provided by the flat services or residence-services managed by a private undertaking is exempt from VAT. The session took place on 3 July. The Belgian State supports the view that these services are indeed exempted. The European Commission has supported the Belgian State in all aspects of this dossier at its meeting. Although the final position of the Court cannot yet be deduced from the hearing, it is in any case highly unlikely that this case would have a legal spillover effect on the VAT exemption applicable to old people's homes or residential centres, which are, by the way, literally mentioned in the VAT Directive. I insist: it is still highly unlikely. We are now waiting for the next step in the procedure, namely the conclusions of the Advocate General. They're due on July 9th. However, I will be very vigilant about any possible negative developments.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic220x.u14	Minister, I regret to have asked you my question orally. I should have put it to you in writing. In this way, we would not have had to suffer the interferences of this ringing! Thank you for the answers you provided. Of course, we will all remain very attentive to this situation, as the decision may have significant effects. Unless I misunderstood you, you did not mention the consultation of the federated entities. Are you going to lock it? This would be useful, since this subject is of interest to the whole population but also to all levels of power. Exchange of information, development and a common strategy could be justified. Of course, if new elements appear, I'll come back to question you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic220x.u15	Mr Minister, let us hope that the European Commission, which has already supported our view on the exemption on 3 June, will also conclude tomorrow that the exemption for rest homes, service flats and assistance homes and for all services provided in this respect can be maintained. I'm just sorry that the press sometimes writes so negative and scares people so much. After all, there is a very good chance that the stir was unnecessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic220x.u16	Minister, thank you for your answers, despite all the external elements that may have parasitized this issue. I will not fail to inform the nursing homes with which I have contacts that you are following this file carefully.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic220x.u17	Mr President, Minister, you know that the general administration of collection and recovery is going through a whole process of organizational change in order to move from the management of debt that is still territorially bound to the administration linked to the debtor's tax residence. That is important and has many advantages. The various tax debts will no longer have to be succeeded by a local receiving office, but will also follow the debtor when he moves. The management of debtors will thus reduce the costs of recovering arrears. This is in the interest of the debtor, who in principle has to pay the costs, and of the government, who pays for inabilityed debtors. Long ago, a cooperation agreement was concluded with the bailiffs in a protocol. Both the organisational changes in the general administration of the collection and recovery, the redrafting of the judicial landscape, there are only twelve arrondissements more............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Minister, what is the impact of judicial reform and the territorial redeployment of recipients in the general administration of collection and recovery on cooperation with bailiffs? Does the current protocol allow recipients to impose requirements regarding an automated information exchange? Is the protocol on the cooperation agreement between recipients and bailiffs revised? If so, what is the timetable? Finally, what is your view or that of your administration regarding cooperation with the bailiffs? Would one court bailiff be preferred per area or would it be preferable to allow cooperation with several bailiffs, so that a direct comparison remains possible?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic220x.u18	Mr President, Mrs De Wit, neither the reform of the judicial districts nor the reorganisation of the reception offices of the general administration of collection and recovery has any impact on cooperation with the bailiffs. The current protocol between the general administration and the bailiffs talks about an information letter that can be sent by e-mail or fax, but does not require an information exchange from system to system. A working group was set up consisting of officials of the General Administration and representatives of the National Chamber of Court Bailiffs to write an addendum to the current protocol in order to regulate the special working procedures from 1 July 2015, which is the date of establishment of the Recovery Service. This addendum is intended to be completed during July. All bailiffs who have signed the current protocol and who will sign the addendum will continue to work for the general administration of collection and recovery. At a regional recovery centre, the competent regional director, in cooperation with the bailiffs, will be able to employ several bailiffs who meet the conditions in his centre.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic220x.u19	Minister, despite your very clear answer, I have one more question. The protocol states that there is no obligation to automate. I understand that work is being done to make the exchange easier. Are there any objections to allowing very simple automation? That interests me, because the privacy data will of course be important. I am certainly looking forward to the content of the addendum that will follow to see to what extent the exchange can be effective and how far it can go.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic220x.u20	I would like to add something to my answer. I gave the date of 1 July, but that will be 1 September, because the discussion around the addendum ends. We now assume that we will be able to cut everything short by 1 September.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic220x.u21	I thought it was a little weird. Okay.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic220x.u22	Mr President, Minister, there is still some money to be spent, which is why we are interested in this. The FPS Finance started a pilot project in Ghent in September 2014 to collect outstanding penalty payments. That project ran until the end of the first quarter of 2015 and is now over. There would be an evaluation and we believe that this evaluation should be seen in a broader context than merely the effective recovery of the penalty payments. So, Minister, I have some very simple questions. Will the structural cooperation for effective recovery of penalty payments with the bailiffs concerned be stopped or will it continue until such time as that evaluation is carried out? In reply to previous questions, I understood that you would like to extend that project. Which parties or bodies are involved in that evaluation? Is that evaluation only aimed at effective recovery of penalty fines, or is the experience acquired integrated into the general policy on FPS Finance recovery? What lessons and adjustments should be made in the computer field for the general administration of collection and recovery?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic220x.u23	Mr President, Mrs De Wit, unpaid fines are collected by the administration itself through the tax balance sheet, the simplified third-party seizure or through the customs number scanners. Other unpaid fines are enforced through a bailiff. What is happening in the project is the recovery by the bailiffs after a period in which it was impossible due to the lack of certain functionalities in the computer system First. The cooperation with the bailiffs is clearly only one part of the whole project. By the way, the bailiffs have long worked together with the administration to collect penalty fines, and that aspect of the approach continues. Of course, the efforts the bailiffs have to make to process the amount of fines should not be underestimated, but the evaluation of the pilot project is mainly carried out by the administration. That evaluation only deals with the recovery of penalty fines. Experience on the recovery of direct taxes or VAT shall be integrated into the management of the recovery of penalty fines and not vice versa. All functionalities related to collection and recovery will be integrated into the computer system First, which will become the recovery and recovery application for the entire FPS Finance in the longer term.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic220x.u24	That is once again a clear answer, Minister. I believe that the pilot project has done its job and that a significant catching-up operation has already taken place. It is therefore very important to be able to continue. I am therefore pleased to hear that the project can also continue at the present time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic220x.u25	Mr President, Minister, on 29 April last you announced that a High Committee would launch a reflection on the future of the Belgian financial system. At the end of its work, the High Committee should submit a report containing an analysis of the situation in the Belgian financial system and a series of recommendations. Very quickly, we learned that this High Committee would be composed of 8 members. Of these 8 members, there are academics specializing in financial matters. At present, we do not have any more information. With this in mind, I would like to know what specific themes will be addressed by this High Committee? Is there a deadline for their work? If so, which one? Will the members of the High Committee present their findings to Parliament? Why not include representatives of financial NGOs in the membership of this High Committee?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic220x.u26	Minister, as Mr Mathot said, you announced the creation of an expert group at the end of April. The High Level Expert Group on the Future of the Belgian Financial sector should consider the future of the financial sector. The analyses would result in concrete recommendations, which would be brought together in a report. The government would then rely on that final report to address a number of challenges for the financial sector. Since the announcement in April, we have heard little or nothing about it, hence my questions. On what basis was the expert group composed? What is the exact composition? Are all players within the Belgian financial sector represented? How often does the expert group meet? What's his assignment? Is it delineated? Is it just about the challenges? That's kind of vague. Does he have any other specific assignments? Has the expert group had a say in the creation of the new banking tax? What was his analysis of this, if any? What is his view of the government on this matter a number of times: the possible privatisation of Belfius? Is he also bowing to a possible solution for the ARCO co-operatives? What is his opinion on the postponement of labelling and the information sheet and the need for comparable financial products? Is he bowing down to the financial sector? Is he also talking about the insurance sector? What are the contours of that? When can we expect the final report? Will you also come to our committee with the final report to explain it? Does the expert group also propose to wait until Europe makes concrete proposals, for example on labelling?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic220x.u27	Mr Mathot, Mrs Temmerman, the mission of the expert group is to have a broad reflection on the Belgian financial landscape by taking stock of the challenges facing the sector after the financial crisis of 2008 and to examine the future prospects. In the question, I have put a strong emphasis on the fact that we have probably started a period in which there are important changes to be expected in terms of diversification in the financial sector and the intrusion of players who are at first sight outside the financial sector, in a framework where it is not always clear how this will be presented and how it should be followed up as a government and regulator. Like the Lamfalussy Committee and by analogy with the Commission on Ageing, the Group of Experts will make recommendations on three important issues which are crucial at the political level: a strong financial sector in the future, Brussels as a financial centre and an adapted tax system. The Panel will present its first interim findings to the Minister of Finance at the end of July. The final report of the Panel of Experts will be presented to the Minister of Finance at the end of November. It is not intended that the group of experts should present conclusions to Parliament, but, without any doubt and without any problems, the parliament may invite the group of experts if it considers it useful or necessary. There are therefore no recommendations at present, nor any action has been taken on the basis of recommendations from the expert group. I cannot therefore comment on, for example, the expert group's view on the privatisation of Belfius. The expert group is also not involved in ongoing initiatives such as the banking tax. He's not looking into the file on ARCO either. The financial sector will be widely examined. Insurance companies and related activities are therefore also included. This is also in line with my opening remarks that in the financial sector, with everything that is around there, there is a great deal of movement, not least in the field of technology. The selection of members took place on the basis of the experience and expertise of the members and certainly also with regard to the fundamental starting point that each of the members brings to the expert group. André Sapir and Geert Noels are presidents and vice-presidents respectively. In addition, the group consists of Jean-Pierre Blumberg, business lawyer specializing in financial affairs, Luc Coene, former governor of the National Bank, Tom Dechaene, director of the National Bank, Lex Hoogduin, former director of the Dutch national bank, Paul Jorion, sociologist of the ULB, and Lieve Mostrey, chief technology officer of Euroclear. In addition to the members of the expert group, other actors will be intensively heard by the group, including trade unions. In this case, the aim is to learn a large number of visions with industry participants and national and foreign specialists. Diversity, international vision and multidisciplinarity are actively sought. The expert group I still attach great importance to this work in full independence and, of course, meets regularly. When and how members come together and how they organise it is entirely their responsibility.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic220x.u28	Minister, thank you for all the answers. That's what's going to happen. In your speech, we can be reassured by what is said. Nevertheless, I would like to have some clarification and to be sure that trade union organisations or other sectors will be heard or consulted. I hope that they will indeed be heard by the experts chosen. Do you have a list of eight experts?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic220x.u29	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic220x.u30	Then we can have it. In any case, thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic220x.u31	Thank you, Minister, for the explanation. I understand we're gonna have to wait a little longer. It's a personal opinion, but I think the group is rather one-sided. I hope, therefore, that the hearings will be fairly wide-ranging and that a number of other bells will also be ringing. Mr President, I would like to address you, as the Minister is prepared to bring the results and the report here. I hope that you will organise this so that we can take note of it and, if necessary, ask questions about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic220x.u32	Mr President, I did not have the opportunity to ask my questions last week. It was regrettable that Mr. Piedboeuf had anticipated and asked his question while mine and hiss were joined. Knowing that an answer has already been given, I still allow myself to ask my first two questions, the third being in fact a reply to the answer you gave last week. On 5 February, the last "Gaïchel" meeting brought together the Luxembourg and Belgian governments. Various commitments were made on that occasion. Among them, an increase in the amount of financial compensation granted by Luxembourg to Belgium in order to guarantee the financing of Belgian municipalities with a significant number of residents working in Luxembourg. This amount is currently EUR 18 million and is increased to EUR 30 million. This increase takes account of developments in the number of Belgian residents working in Luxembourg and the professional income earned by them. The compensation must be reviewed every three years on the basis of the real occupational income of cross-border workers, which is about 40,000 spread throughout the Kingdom. Can you tell me when this amount will be realigned? You are aware that, for the past three years, the municipalities have been obliged to propose a pre-budget. Will they be able to count on a revised and accurate amount for their next pre-budget to be tabled by September 30th? How will the municipalities concerned be informed? My next question refers to a previous question put by my colleague Josy Arens, who had addressed it to your predecessor to know what he thought of the solution for German residents working in Luxembourg. The Minister replied that the Belgian tax administration was prepared to discuss a provision comparable to the Luxembourg tax administration. Since then, progress has been made, since on 16 March, amicable agreements have been concluded on the basis of Article 25(3) of the Convention on the Prevention of Double Taxation concluded between Belgium and the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg. This agreement sets a limit of 24 days for the number of days a Belgian resident works in Luxembourg to work in Belgium or in a third State. While this agreement has the merit of clarifying certain things, it is not clear on all points. Moreover, it does not take into account a number of situations, such as those involving telework or those involving travel more than 24 days a year in a third State. Minister, has the March 16 agreement been specifically communicated to the FPS Finance departments responsible for its implementation? How are leave days taken into account? If the 24-day limit is exceeded by 1 day, is the taxpayer taxed on 1 day or 25 days? What documents are eligible to prove its presence in either State? Has the agreement signed on 16 March received specific information about the taxpayers concerned? What are the results of the control action taken by the FPS Finances with taxpayers who have declared a foreign employee's remuneration and who are seeking exemption from it? Does the Belgian tax administration recognise the right of Belgian residents working in Luxembourg to telework as their colleagues residing in the Grand Duchy? In reply to my question on the financial compensation paid by Luxembourg to Belgium, you said about the method of calculation: "The effect of this revision for each municipality concerned can only be communicated after the calculation of the additional municipal cents for the 2014 tax year." Regarding the calendar, you also said: "The payment will be made in December 2015, as in previous years." The calculation of the additional cents is one of the elements of the calculation that allows the FPS Finances to allocate the fund among the municipalities. For the past three years, under the Code of Local Democracy and Decentralisation, Walloon municipalities have been obliged to propose a pre-budget for 30 September. Minister, regarding the FPS Finance calculation method, what is the weight of the additional cents in the FPS Finance calculation? What other criteria do they take into account? With regard to the timetable, could you provide an estimate to the municipalities before the end of September to enable them to integrate this compensation into their pre-budget?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic220x.u33	Do I have to answer both questions or only the last?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic220x.u34	Only the last one. First, I consider that you have responded. It was a misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic220x.u35	Good. With regard to the method of calculating the FPS Finances, the calculation of the additional cents is based on the principle of Articles 466 and 466 bis of the Income Tax Code 1992 (IRC 92). The additional "fictitious" cents are taken into account for the distribution of financial compensation between the border communes. These fictitious cents are calculated on professional income from Luxembourg sources which are exempt from taxes in Belgium under the Belgian-Luxembourg Convention. With regard to the timetable, the study service will send a new estimate on the subject to the municipalities as soon as possible for the service. I can't give you an exact date.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic220x.u36	This means that the municipalities will probably have to base their budgets on previous estimates and possibly apply a pro rata according to the increase?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic220x.u37	There you go. I think that will be the best solution.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic220x.u38	Can't you give a pre-estimate?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic220x.u39	No, otherwise the confusion may occur between the different figures.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic220x.u40	Thank you, Minister, for your answers. And thank you, Mr President, for accepting this change in the agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic220x.u41	Mr President, Minister, in the light of the reorganisation plans, the office in my home town will close from 1 September. The control then moves to Ypres. All services of the FPS Finance were housed in the same building, owned by the Government of the Buildings. However, in a recent reply from your predecessor, it was stated that the administration of Taxation would retain an information point for individuals. Minister, which services or services will not be housed in Poperinge? Will the residents still be able to go to the office during the period of the tax return? What impact will the further developments in the FPS Finance have on the staff employed there? Has there been any contact with the Buildings Regie over the future of the federal part of the building, which is slowly but surely running out? Quid with the restaurant housed on the second floor of that building?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic220x.u42	Mr President, Mrs Lahaye, in the context of the Coperfin reform, the modernisation process of the FPS Finance Office is intended to use the available infrastructure and staff more efficiently. This new structure must enable the FPS to work faster and better, so that the file of a citizen or a company can now be dealt with within a single service. While citizens and businesses too often still need to visit different buildings and services, we want to ensure that this does not happen more or at least much less in the future than in the past. In this respect, we are moving towards fewer but larger and more modern buildings. This inevitably implies that it is necessary to close a number of smaller buildings or only maintain a basic service. For the building on the Hondstraat in Poperinge this means that there will still be a limited presence of about eight customs officials. They remain there in the form of a so-called antenna Poperinge, which is part of the new so-called mobile team Roeselare, whose headquarters will of course, as the name suggests, be located in Roeselare. There is also an info point for private individuals in Poperinge. For the other services the citizen will be able to go to the Arsenaalstraat in Ypres. During the reporting period, local sitting days may also be organised to complete the declaration. In addition, we will of course continue to make every effort to ensure that the e-services are offered as fully as possible. As a result of the Coperfin reform, the staff currently housed in Poperinge have been able to choose a different place of employment. These are now known to all involved and in 2015 and 2016 they will be able to reach their new location. The space in the building that will no longer be occupied by the FPS Finance will be transferred to the Government of the Buildings. The further completion of these buildings and their function is, of course, the responsibility of the Government of the Buildings. The delivery of meals from the restaurant in Kortrijk will also be completed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic220x.u43	Thank you, Minister, for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic220x.u44	Mr President, Minister, the Amazon e-commerce site had centralized all its European activities in the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg for tax reasons well known since the LuxLeaks. A 2003 ruling limited the tax rate to 1% of income. But it has recently decided to account for its sales locally and therefore to pay taxes in the countries where its profits are made. Unfortunately, at this stage only four countries are involved, namely the United Kingdom, Germany, Italy and Spain. It seems that France should follow. Amazon's decision is in the right direction, but it is now, on the one hand, that it should be extended to the other Member States of the Union, including Belgium, and, on the other hand, that other companies, particularly those active in electronic commerce, follow this very logical path of taxation in the territory where the profits are realized. This is what is at stake in the discussions on this subject at European and OECD level. Minister, have you been aware of Amazon's decision concerning the United Kingdom, Germany, Italy and Spain? Do you know why Belgium is not yet concerned? What steps have been taken with regard to Amazon to ensure that it also declares its income in Belgium? What is your strategy to encourage web multinationals to report their sales actually made in our country? Is there any European reflection on this with your ECOFIN colleagues when you are not talking about Greece?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic220x.u45	Mr President, Mr Gilkinet, I hope you will understand that I am not allowed to disclose confidential information about a specific taxpayer. In general, however, in order for a company to declare its income in Belgium, it must necessarily reside in our country or have a Belgian establishment through which it operates. In this regard, I can assure you that every effort is made to ensure that the principles of law governing the place of taxation of the activities carried out are fully respected. With regard to VAT, the principles relating to the determination of the place where the tax is due are uniformly regulated at European level by the VAT Directive and the Regulation adopted for its implementation. Generally speaking, in the case of physical delivery of goods or when content is supplied by electronic means, VAT may be payable in the country where the customer is established.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic220x.u46	Minister, you are giving me an answer in principle. You're not exactly closing the door. I note, moreover, that the government is discussing at the employment level on specific conditions to promote e-commerce in our country, i.e. the location of e-commerce activities in Belgium. I hope that the logic will be followed in this respect and that the activities implemented in Belgium will be taxed in Belgium and not in tax havens, although Belgium is sometimes part of these paradises too. I have no doubt that you will be attentive to it. This is an issue that we will come back to in the debate on special, possibly differentiated, contributions for e-commerce players.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic220x.u47	The Rules of Procedure provide for each questioner to have two minutes' speaking time, but let us interpret that a little more broadly. It's a topical debate after all. That does not mean that it can be ten minutes, but we will not chronometrate the speaking time. Everyone has to be able to be covered. Since this is a topical debate, Members who have not tabled a question may also speak from their group. Are we going to start immediately with the questions or are we going to give the Minister a chance to give a state of affairs? First the questions? All right, then I give the floor to Mr Deseyn.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic220x.u48	Mr President, Minister, our group is obviously very concerned about the Greek people. Politically, there has been a flag flight. We could almost predict that, regardless of the outcome of the referendum, but we are faced with huge youth unemployment and a huge amount of debt. Our position is still that Greece belongs to Europe and Europe belongs to Greece. So we will have to offer a perspective in very difficult political circumstances. It is, of course, true that the Greek Government is acting very ambiguously and provocatively. What we saw with last Sunday's referendum is actually a textbook example of how a referendum should not be organised. It was a very strange, formalistic approach, also with the interpretation of the direction of the cross. When one looks at the question and claims that democracy will prevail... It is in itself problematic to reduce such a complex problem to one question. Moreover, if we are to vote on something that is completely out of date, it is quite dramatic. Then one cannot claim that it is a high day for democracy. It is rather an insult to democracy. We need to see what can happen now. There have been several meetings of the Eurogroup and of the European Council. I'd like to get your vision of leadership from you. Sacrifices have been made from Greece. Is there still a great deal of coherence and consensus in the approach? Is the chairman coming to those meetings with the right methodology? Will the European fora lead to a result? After all, we would prefer the euro area to remain intact. To what extent has the peace offering made sense from Greece? What will be the position of Mr Dijsselbloem? I would like to have a positive or a negative appreciation of this. We've also heard the ultrasounds from the National Bank. Luc Coene has stated that a partial restructuring of debt will have to be considered if it is to be elegant. I would like your response to that. Then there are the questions about alternative scenarios, ranging from alternative means of payment, whether temporary or not, to administrative assistance, which seems to me to be a salutary slope, without talking about a political curate. It might be wrong to speak of a strong administrative force, but one might think of strong administrative assistance from Europe to check the books and implement collection mechanisms. Mr Laaouej shakes his head, but I do not see what is fundamentally wrong with offering administrative assistance in this area. I also wonder, Minister, whether the geopolitical aspect of the finance ministers' economic and financial talks is also being discussed? I see what is now being posted from Turkey, a bit unexpected, but of course not without self-interest: there too, the cheque is waving. Of course, there is also the generous offer from Russia. To what extent does that weigh on developing a scenario for the next few days? Finally, I would like to ask a very important question about the risk to Belgium. This is argued in all directions. Some say that the 6 billion should be considered in the context of the issuing loans, by building up in the budget or by registering in the books. It's not exactly an eminent danger. However, we must never forget that our contributions to the Stability Mechanism or the Solidarity Mechanism of the EFSF are much greater in quantitative terms. The money from the IMF did not fall out of the sky either. There are national contributions there too. If all this is put together, one could speak of an operation that could have the same impact or the same risk as saving the banks. It would be a good thing if you, as Minister of Finance, were to do away with this issue. What are we exposed to? What is the sword of Damocles, to put it in Greek terms, which is now hanging over our heads? How sharp is it and how heavy does it weigh?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic220x.u49	Mr President, I have noticed that there has been a great deal of moral pressure from the European Union in recent weeks and days, particularly in the period before the referendum. That has happened in several ways. We have had all kinds of thunderstorms of the European bangs, they have predicted a real catastrophe if the result were to be no. The euro area countries even tried to prevent an IMF report on Greek debt from being published last Thursday. Despite all these attempts at influence, the Greek people have spoken very clearly. They have clearly chosen a different path than the one the European Union wanted to set out for them. They have chosen by a large majority, rationally, a completely different way out from the savings plans. The thunderspeaks have had the opposite effect. This proves that democracy cannot be blackmailed. However, it should also be noted that Greece is moving de facto towards the exit of the euro area. That does not necessarily have to be a disaster scenario. This has already been confirmed by renowned credit rating agencies such as S&P. It can even offer prospects. We have been calling for a Greek departure for years, because the euro structure in which the northern countries have to pay for the southern situation is a loose-lose situation. As long as one wants to hold on to it cramped, it only costs more for everyone. The Greek debt crisis has cost the average Fleming about 600 euros. The question is what else will be added. The previous speaker has already referred to the Belgian risk. What will that mean for our budget and for our savings if we do not see back the money lent to Greece? Moreover, would I have liked to know from you the attitude of the federal government towards a grexit, in the current circumstances? The grexit has come very close with the referendum. While Mr Juncker said yesterday that he had nothing to prepare a grexit, he says today that he already has a detailed plan in place. So my question is how realistic that scenario is and what position will our government take in it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic220x.u50	If I heard Mrs. Pas talk, I'd say, "Les extremes se touchent." Extreme left and far right, one battle. That is what we have seen today in the European Parliament, where even Mrs Le Pen's group was waving "Oxylene." Apparently, some people find each other. I'll kick down an open door when I say we've been witnesses to a strong piece of Greek theater. In a referendum, 60% vote no on savings proposals that nobody really knew what they meant. It's about a government that walks away from the negotiating table and then preaches all kinds of things to its people. The most pertinent thing was still former Minister Varoufakis, who told the people that if they had a no vote, they would have a new agreement within 24 hours, or even within a few hours. Then he resigns and becomes a "Varoufexit'. He'd quit on a yes, but he'd do it on a no. How can one fool their own people even more? Now, Prime Minister Tsipras claimed that a referendum would provide a strengthened capital for proposed reforms and savings, but at the same time he again calls for additional support. This means that on one hand a common middle finger is raised and on the other hand the begging hand is kept open. It reminds me of the Roman god Janus, the man with the two faces, not by chance from Thessaloniki in Greece. It is therefore strange that the same Prime Minister has the mouths of democracy when he talks about a referendum, but at the same time apparently forgets 18 other democracies while openly flirting with Vladimir Putin, not immediately the model of democracy. The Greens, too, were rightly very keen today in the European Parliament on this dual attitude and on the democratic content of Prime Minister Tsipras. They also referred to the solidarity that Mr Tsipras demands from the eastern countries, who actually need more solidarity. But come on, the contrast with the Greens in our country is apparently very large in that respect. There has now been a new proposal to the Eurogroup, reportedly, orally and not in writing. Today, however, there would have been a written request for a third aid package to the European support mechanism. That is why I would like to have some clarification on the content of the oral reforms proposed and, if you already have a look at them, also on the proposals to the ESM. Of course, I would like to hear about its credibility. You said earlier that the no-vote scenario was not yet considered in the euro group, because it was not wanted to, but of course it will have been done by now. So I'm asking what that scenario looks like. A grexit seems the most realistic, both for the banks and for the Heads of Government, to respect their statements. This is also the way things are going: the banks remain closed and there are capital controls. The ECB increases the emergency liquidity assistance and therefore does not, in my opinion, increase its own exposure, but I do not think it is appropriate to comment on decisions taken by the ECB. The risk of these banks falling over is therefore very high. I know that some people like to shoot at these banks, but we must not forget that the savings and pensions of ordinary Greeks are still with the Greek banks. Those who did not wait for the capital controls and soon moved their own money do not usually belong to the class of the ordinary Greek. One might wonder if a referendum was organized as a Greek government, knowing that there is a great chance of a grexit and still waiting for capital controls on the banks, to what extent that did not help those who were quick enough to secure their money. Those are the ones who should not stand in line today for their daily ration of EUR 60. Do you, Minister, or the international community have any idea of the movements of funds prior to the introduction of capital controls? What are the consequences for Belgium of a grexit and the intermediate steps towards it? The Greek authorities could opt for issuing IOUs and similar conditions. Afterwards, this will be a parallel currency in itself, while tourists' euro coins will still be very welcome. I would like to call on all those who wish to show solidarity to travel to Greece and spend money there. That's the best way to get the economy going again. I would particularly like to ask you about the consequences for our country. We knew we'd lose 7 billion euros. We're not gonna make it any worse by throwing more taxpayers' money at it. Minister, what are the consequences for our country on top of EUR 7 billion?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic220x.u51	I hear a lot of colleagues commenting on the situation in Greece, on the responsibility of each other. In this file, there are many fantasies. The point of questioning the Minister of Finance is to be at the heart of the decision. So I really ask him to give us objective presentations. I listened to Mr Tsipras' 17-minute speech to the European Parliament. It is online on various sites and I believe it is a gesture of appeasement with commitments on his part. First of all, there is a reading of this referendum, and that is normal. He considers, like me, that it is a major democratic act that has been put forward with a result that we imagined to be tighter than it was. Indeed, 60% of Greeks said "no", with the risk of no and very strong international pressure. It is not a no to Europe, it is a no to austerity, saying that other recipes must be used. Mr Tsipras fully acknowledged his country's difficulties and shortcomings, particularly in the area of tax organisation and control. He's not hiding from it. He felt that too many social and professional categories in Greece enjoyed privileges inherited from the past. While in place for only 6 months, he called into question 40 years of non-management in his country. He explained that it was not in six months that they could set up a tax administration and the tools that were lacking in the functioning of the State, but that it was their intention and that they had submitted proposals. Often it is understood that they do not make proposals, that they do not commit themselves to anything. So my first question is: are there any proposals or a commitment to provide you with new proposals? Because we've already seen a lot of traffic... He then concluded his speech by saying that they wanted to remain in a European project but that they could not achieve it without a rescheduling of the debt. He claims that their situation today is impossible. He explains that we cannot ask them for reforms that are difficult to implement, his wish being to save the most fragile and to make contributions to those who have not yet been asked, without we being able to set clear commitments on a rescheduling of Greek debt. That seems to me a condition for moving forward. At other times in European history, other countries have received exceptional assistance. Greece has already received exceptional aid, but the cost of non-solidarity towards Greece will be higher than the cost of solidarity and all the consequences of exiting Greece from the euro area must be taken into account. So my other questions are as follows. Where are we now? The calendar's been shuddered. A European summit was announced yesterday. Another is announced on Sunday. What is the position of the Eurogroup and, more broadly, of the ECOFIN Council on issues of debt negotiations? Can the European solidarity mechanism be used again in this context? What would be the legislative consequences? Is there an urgent need in Belgium to pass a law to this effect, as was the case when the first aid for Greece was introduced? Does Belgium, on a transitional basis, agree to make a gesture, to renounce the interests which the Greek State pays us on the basis of this aid? I hear some Members of the European Parliament criticising Mrs Merkel for playing with fire – it is really the impression that we are facing the role that Germany plays in this matter – and Mr Hollande for being soft, for not acting. What role can Belgium play in resolving the crisis? For my part, the various responsibilities, the fact that Mr Tsipras is a communist, that the Greek people have enormous responsibilities in the matter, I am not interested in that. What interests me, as a European, is that we find a solution that ensures that all European citizens do not lose money and that Greece is allowed to restart on a better basis, which will benefit everyone. I would really like to know what active role Belgium can play in a negotiated and positive solution for everyone on this issue. Minister, you were accused, when you were appointed, of your previous statements about the "Grexit". Maybe you were a visionary at the time. I systematically hear your party members adopt a very hard line that I do not think is likely to contribute to a negotiated and positive solution. What role do you play, on behalf of the government, in this matter, with other countries, to bring everyone back to reason and to a solution that is sustainable both in terms of each country's internal policy and at European level? It is essential that Belgium, the founding country of Europe, stands out and contributes by Sunday to a negotiated solution which is not a Grexit and which gives hope to the Greek people by enabling them to break this logic of austerity and to put in place the tools necessary for a normal perception of the contributions of their compatriots, especially those which have been preserved so far.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic220x.u52	Mr President, I see that there are two questions on the agenda. On Monday evening there were problems in contact with the Chamber and the question came through twice. So I only have one question. Mr. Secretary, we're in front of two yards. The first is Greece, the second is Europe, the euro and the euro zone. There's not much to talk about. I will briefly ask you a question about this. Can you tell us what's on your mind? What has happened to Greece strengthens me in a belief that I have long held, namely that Europe is too one-sided monetary-economically oriented and that there is a great need for social criteria. When we look at the countries in difficulty, I understand that certain economic objectives and figures must be imposed. However, the absence of these social criteria has led to a humanitarian crisis in Greece. I therefore hope that the plans for the euro area will pay much more attention to the social dimension. The second thing I learn from the issue of Greece is that the democratic deficit for the European Union is already high but for the euro area is very high, with very dangerous developments and risks that could jeopardise the entire European construction due to a lack of democracy. Be sure, all those number fetishists and technocrats who are making the decisions now have no contact with reality on the ground. They do not know what it is like to see very low pensions falling by 40% in Greece. There must be a great democratic splash in the euro area to prevent the construction from breaking down. I am a European federalist and I am really worried about Europe. The Europe we have seen in recent weeks and months is a Europe that people fear and turn away from. Then there's the other yard, Greece. There is no one who disputes the need for reforms in Greece. Forty years of mismanagement in that country has caused the country to face very serious problems. There will be a reform plan and we know about the ingredients. I believe it will be about savings and taxes. I hope that this will include investment and debt restructuring. Could you give us a little more insight into what that mix looks like? I should like to conclude with two specific proposals. As far as savings are concerned, I wonder whether you cannot argue at European level for defence savings in Greece. The NATO standard is now 2% of expenditure, Greece is 2.2 %. The NATO target may be 2%, but the European average for defence expenditure is 1.6 % of GDP. So I'd say save it. We do not ask Greece to do more or less, but if it is already at 1.6 %, that is already a saving. My second proposal concerns taxation. I did some digging once. Several fellow Members have already mentioned it, but I am making a concrete proposal. There is a problem with the collection of taxes, especially with regard to the collection of taxes on capital and capital. Professor Schneider, known by most of you, makes an annual exercise in which he calculates how much tax revenue a country misses. For Greece, EUR 28 billion was involved in 2009! Knowing that the Troika predicts that Greece's deficit will amount to 3.7 billion in 2015, this amount is stark against the 28 billion, which Professor Schneider says is missing out on tax revenue. All the more reason to bet on that. Professor Zucman of the London School of Economics has, of all things, held on to you, fellow Members, that Greek capital hidden in fiscal havens amounts to 120 billion euros. Rich Greeks have hidden 120 billion euros in tax havens! To give you an idea of this amount, my fellow Members: Greece is four times poorer than Belgium. I do not know if you know that, but the Belgians are the richest in Europe. The Belgians also have 120 billion euros in tax havens, but the Greeks with a national wealth of a quarter of Belgium have just as much hidden in tax havens. One more thing. According to the European Central Bank's statistics, 80 billion euro of deposits have disappeared in Greece since 2009. So there's money there. I have a concrete proposal. Last week, in the Committee on External Relations, we supplemented the double taxation agreement with Greece with an exchange of information between Belgium and Greece, new style, according to the new Article 26 of the OECD. An agreement is not difficult, because model agreements are available from the OECD. Within two months, we will be able to conclude an administrative agreement with the Greek tax administration, which will make all the information on the capitals of wealthy Greek banks available to the Greek tax authorities. In my opinion, Mr Deseyn, we can provide the Greek tax authorities with administrative and fiscal assistance with specialists. Then money can be collected. This is quite different from the discussions currently being held by the troika with regard to new tax revenues, because this concerns micro-management and micro-problems, such as an increase in VAT on olives or olive oil. It's not about that. What matters is that Greece sighs deeply under the heavy savings that have been imposed. These savings weigh on middle incomes and low incomes. The rich Greeks are spared. If there is one way to bring some justice to the burden-sharing of the reform, Greek capital abroad must be tackled. Belgium can set an example and convince its fellow MEPs to join. Allow me to give some final figures on that Greek capital. It is EUR 120 billion in tax havens and EUR 50 billion in other countries. Assuming that the capital yields a return of 3% and that 20% is levied on interest income, and if all countries participate................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... What are we waiting for? Last week I heard Mr Dewael and this morning Guy Verhofstadt said that the collection of taxes in Greece is a problem. Now, ladies and gentlemen, we can help. Let's do something about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic220x.u53	Mr President, I wanted to take this opportunity to thank you for agreeing to organise this debate today, as I asked for in the last committee. It was very necessary and useful, given the enthusiasm that this committee has aroused today. It was therefore the no of Greece's creditors that won it on Sunday with more than 60% in the referendum. The choice of the Greek people was not a break but a return to the founding principles of the European Union: principles of democracy, solidarity, mutual respect and equality. These words are those which Mr Tsipras spoke before the European Parliament earlier. Mr Tsipras is not a communist, contrary to what I have heard several times here. He concluded by saying that the Greeks' message was to break with the austerity trajectory imposed on them over the last five years, while advocating for a lasting solution to his country's debt. The painful austerity policies put in place have nowhere else been as harsh and long as in Greece. His country has become a field of experimentation with austerity. The reality must be seen in the face: experience has failed. He concludes by saying: "We are determined not to seek confrontation with Europe but to attack the mentalities that have plunged Greece and the Eurozone with it." That is what we have been advocating for several weeks or even years. I will return to a response made by former Prime Minister Elio Di Rupo in plenary session in the House on June 13, 2013. He said: "The least we can say is that the European Union's response to the Greek situation is not successful. Six consecutive years of recession and record unemployment. It's an understatement. It seems to me urgent, as you have indicated, that consciences are awakening, that we are changing course. The European Union cannot rule out any question from the back of its hand. We cannot ignore the fate of the Greek citizens who are, like us, European citizens. They're our fellow citizens. Once again, we must see that austerity for austerity, austerity for purpose, is meaningless. Take care, austerity can also harm democracy." So we were in June 2013. Strong words from the Prime Minister, in plenary session, which contrast with the speech of the current Prime Minister, who speaks unworthy of a head of government of a founding country of the European Union. No doubt it is driven by the wind of the N-VA, which, rather than defending a strong Europe, is now moving towards a Europe with a less Member State, possibly. It is therefore in the face of this implacable observation that the countries of the euro area met this Tuesday for an extraordinary summit to explore the chances of saving a Greece in a state of financial emergency and, above all, a population waiting for genuine European solidarity, not laughing with blind austerity. In Europe, there are countries that want to leave the European project, such as the United Kingdom, and countries that want to stay. We therefore call for negotiations and solutions with those who want to be fully part of the European project. On the eve of this crucial meeting, Germany and France tried to mask their differences of approach in this matter in order to present a common position against the Greek Prime Minister, Alexis Tsipras. In your opinion, Minister, our government's position will indeed depend on the new proposals that the Greek government will make. Can you tell us, then, what position Belgium took at the various meetings that took place yesterday? What do you think are the margins for negotiations in this context? What is your analysis of the latest proposals made by Mr Tsipras and the outcome of the referendum? Finally, Greece calls for a third aid plan, and has this also been raised?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic220x.u54	Mr President, Minister, I would also like to ask a few questions relating to the current situation, but I would also like to focus on more general considerations. Mr Minister, I assume you will take stock of the ongoing discussions in the Eurogroup. Is there a shared will to reach agreement on a restructuring of the Greek debt? What is the government's position in this regard? Is the resolution of the Greek crisis the only topic for discussion or do you also have general discussions on economic policy in the euro area? Is partial pooling of public debt among the options envisaged by the euro area? These are some questions you will certainly answer. But before that, I would like to say that I consider the situation to be serious and hopeless. Minister, I belong to a traditional political party that can be described as Christian, centrist, humanist, whatever! It is, in any case, a party that has been embodied, in particular by statesmen at both national and European level. I am thinking here, in particular of Philippe Maystadt or Herman Van Rompuy, who is in line with the founding fathers of Europe. I therefore do not belong to a party with a somewhat independent, self-governing tendency, which can, perhaps, be satisfied with the decline, a delicacy, a breach of the European project. In doing so, I must tell you that "I am hurting Europe" and that I am dismayed at the spectacle given to us to live day to day. I am appalled by the financial, economic and monetary impacts we face. Indeed, the extent to which the euro area is in a situation of fragility, with much less economic growth than in other economic areas is well understood. Within the euro area there are particularly important differentials and the crisis that we are experiencing is aggravating these difficulties. I am dismayed at the democratic impact of this crisis. The gap is widening between the population and the European authorities. This is true not only in Greece, where, whatever one thinks of it, the no is an expression of a lack of confidence in the choices made at European level. This is a no to a policy which, rightly or wrongly, is considered to be austerity, which, as such, becomes unbearable. I have the feeling that, beyond the Greek dispute, there is a widening gap among the entire European population between the citizens and an increasingly technocratic Europe. The Troika, which embodies the European project, cannot arouse the enthusiasm of the people, cannot fuel the European dream. This democratic concern is very strong in my leadership. Besides, I must also say that I am very worried about the geostrategic impacts of the situation. I am not at all among those who welcome a rapprochement between Mr Tsipras and Mr Putin. I find that given the situation in Greece and the global context, with all the factors of insecurity that we are facing, we cannot take this geostrategic problem lightly. So, what a waste in the face of this situation, if we continue to remain unable to find a way out of the crisis. So, of course, the issue of responsibilities may not be the most important one. Although, once we truly identify each other's responsibilities, we may already have come a step closer to the solutions to be considered. I must say that I do not have a unilateral approach in this regard. Each of the two sides must sweep in front of its door: the present Greek government in its somewhat heterogeneous composition which goes from the far left to the far right, passing through an ecological component, but also its predecessors. All Greek governments have probably failed in being unable to make the necessary changes. On the other hand, the troika itself, and therefore Europe and the European Commission, have also, no doubt, made mistakes by imposing a very tight pace, too tight for reforms, and successive aid plans which have not always been very well defined and which have ultimately worsened the debt problem. I therefore think that responsibility is shared. As a result, both sides must be called into question. It is imperative that the Greek authorities reform themselves to meet their obligations. They must undertake the structural reforms that are necessary to put their country on the path to economic recovery. They must of course improve the functioning of public administration in Greece. They must, it must be said, establish a fair and efficient tax collection system. That's indisputable. At the same time, however, I really believe that the European institutions, of which we are part, of which Belgium is a part in a certain way, must also realize that their mission is to accompany all the Member States, and in particular this one, in order to lead them to rebuild from a socio-economic point of view within the European Union. The institutions must initiate a process of deepening European integration in order to create a democratic area with real economic and social governance. They must also doubtless ask themselves the question of the partial sharing of public debts. In this respect, Minister, I must say that I am disappointed by the position of Belgium. Belgium has always had this tradition of leading role, of proactivity in European integration. If I were to describe his attitude today, I would say that it is a mixture of arrogance and attentism. Arrogance, when the Prime Minister himself intends to "broaden the end of recreation" and, as he has once again said, place the Greek government before its responsibilities. I honestly believe that arrogance is not appropriate and certainly not on the part of the Belgian Government. I am thinking in particular of the fact that you yourself had to fail yesterday on a problem, albeit different but extremely delicate, of the federal state's ability to draw up correct forecasts in tax matters. Today, I think that the Belgian government is not in the best position to teach its colleagues the lesson. Beyond this arrogance, which is a little congenital, if I may say so, there is a form of attentism which, for me, is not up to the stakes. The threats are serious. We can see that populism is at work. We can all have nuanced opinions on the results of the referendum, but what is certain is that a fundamental blade is growing in power in the various Member States. And this rise of populism is worrying. The very hypothesis of Grexit would be a failure. There is a real threat to be avoided. And I said just now how serious the economic situation is, too. In view of these issues, I would have liked the Belgian Government, faithful to the country's tradition, to contribute to the emergence of a solution, because even if it is a small country, it has the capacity to create compromises, to recreate the conditions for dialogue. For me, Grexit is not a solution and we must not solve such a scenario, because it would be a terrible precedent in the history of European integration. This would really be the starting point for a deconstruction of the European monetary union. So it's a scenario to banish. Moreover, the maintenance of artificial aid, so that the Greek State can survive while keeping it in a situation of asphyxiation, is not a solution either. There is a real need to find a third way. We must take advantage of this crisis not only to solve the Greek problem, but also to respond to the European issues that concern us all, in order to improve the situation in Europe as a whole. I do not want to go into the details, but I think that the Belgian Government should be at the forefront of structural reflection on the state of Europe. It must remember that solidarity is an inextricable value of responsibility, and vice versa. In Europe, we need solidarity and responsibility. It is a message that must be heard by all, Greeks as well as other Member States. In this process of exiting the crisis, we must work to strengthen the euro area, because it is clear that we are faced with cyclical and structural risks that we find difficult to cope with. There is therefore scope for strengthening the budgetary Union. This will include fiscal harmonisation, although I know that you do not agree with me on this point. However, this is a debate that should be held at European level. In the context of this exit from the crisis, we should also consider a form of mutualisation, even partial, of debts in Europe. And beyond all these budgetary, financial or monetary challenges, it is an opportunity for Europe to question its strategic capacity. Defence seems very far from the current realities, but if we really want to consolidate the European model, strengthen unity between the Member States, create a European public opinion, we will also have to address these issues. These are important geostrategic issues. To carry out this challenge would also be such as to build a comprehensive response to all the issues that arise through the Greek crisis. I would therefore really like to hear from you, Mr. Minister, on all these challenges, hoping that this government will eventually take the path of ambition and bring a healthy will for reconciliation at European level.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic220x.u55	Almost two months ago, I put in the plenary session, especially in the light of the concerns of the Belgian citizen, or that citizen, who participated in lending to Greece for an amount of between EUR 7 and 8 billion, that money would ever see again. In two months' time, the situation in Greece has deteriorated in all respects, especially for ordinary citizens. The problems, including those of the Greek economy, are very serious. A number of comments and suggestions are rightly made. I am glad that the debate in our sitting has so far always been conducted in a serene manner. This is not always the case in plenary, where far too much and far too soon the blackbird is being passed on to one or the other group from the past. Mr Van der Maelen has just spoken wise words. While many foolish words were spoken in plenary, there were many wise words in committee today. He made it clear that things have gone wrong there for 40 years. All the political views represented here have been taken into account. Of the income from savings, nothing was given to the Greeks. They didn't get what they needed. There are areas in Greece where there is no VAT and where people cannot even join.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic220x.u56	Isn't that paradise for a liberal?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic220x.u57	There are still a lot of savings to be made in many areas. You suggested a number of them last week, as in defence, but also in other areas. One can ask why the ECB should give money to Greek banks, which thus finance the political parties and the Orthodox Church. Is that the role of the IMF and the ECB? So there is a lot of work to be done, especially in Greece. Today, during the debate in the European Parliament, one hears a small initial statement that one would be prepared to carry out a number of structural reforms. I ask you, Minister, how concrete that is, because it is not the first time Greece has announced that it will take certain measures. However, it must be clear that the measures must be of such a nature that they fundamentally reform the country and not, as recently, only the citizens and the working class are hard hit. Let us be honest: in this respect we must give clear guidelines to the IMF. However, we must also recognise that the situation in Greece has deteriorated and is actually becoming hopeless for the Greek economy. The debt mountain has risen to almost Belgian heights and is now EUR 320 billion. For a country such as Greece with such an economy, it is almost impossible to raise such a sum. That is why a number of people put debt restructuring at the centre. That is why we are hearing today in the Greek Government's discourse that not only fresh money is needed, but also debt restructuring. We believe that every possible means should be used to find political solutions to the problem. However, we must not stare blindly at this. After all, what is the biggest problem of the Greek economy? The Greek economy is not an export economy. This means that we actually have very few monetary elements to make the economy run. In other words, if we go to a scenario of a grexit, one should not think that a devaluation of the drachma would give the economy so much strength to get on. No spectacular quantities of Oikos, feta and olives will be sent around the world. The Greek economy is not an export economy. In other words, a strict monetary policy does not help the Greek economy. That is an element which has been taken far too little account of so far. Mr Van der Maelen has just said that tailor-made solutions must be provided for a country. He called it social corrections. I think it is important to look for a way to get the economy back on its feet. It is clear that this must be done in a different way than in other countries, because Greece cannot be an export-based growth economy. In this respect, there are not enough elements available that can actually produce anything. This also means that any new debt restructuring that is currently being proposed only shifts the debt over time. We need to be aware of that. If we say massively today that the Greeks must repay everything, then the problem is shifted over time and no solution can be found. They certainly do not have any new income to repay the debts. Minister, what position will our country take on the question of the IMF and others, including Mr Coene, about the possibility of a debt restructuring for our country? To what extent can concessions be made to the Greek Government in this context, without prejudicing the pillars of EMU? What are the possibilities? What are the red lines for the Commission and the Eurogroup, excluding the Greeks and the IMF? Do you share my analysis that a grexit will in no way benefit the Greek economy? What is more, the question is to what extent this will benefit our country. I also repeat my question from two months ago. What does a debt restructuring mean for the Belgian budget and for the stability of the NBB, which also holds a lot of Greek paper, and for the possible dividend flowing to our budget? Not only do we have 7 billion outstanding debt, but we also have the debts of the NBB, which could also be severely affected by this.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic220x.u58	Mr President, contrary to what was sometimes announced last week, the door is still open for discussions with Greece. Everyone agrees that this is a good thing. For discussions to be open, a tangible plan must be worked out. We therefore all expect a tangible plan, a serious and credible reform plan, a written and costed plan to be proposed. In this regard, I wanted to know Greece's commitment to achieving this. Is there a specific timing? There has been a great deal of disagreement over the past few weeks that a plan is actually being presented. It is only once this plan is clearly laid down and established that an agreement can be considered. This agreement will itself serve as the basis for further financial assistance from the European Union and why not, in the long run, from the IMF. If there were to be a third rescue plan for Greece, after those of 2010 and 2012, for 240 billion euros, we cannot speak of arrogance! We can speak of solidarity with Greece, a solidarity that goes hand in hand with an important responsibility, regardless of the political line of the Greek government. The latter, like all governments, must be able to take the necessary measures to ensure a fair and effective tax levy in order to ensure a sound financial and economic situation for the benefit of the inhabitants. Greece has all the cards it needs to stay in the euro area, and that is what we want. But it is sometimes forgotten, and it is not wrong, that being part of the euro area entails bonds. We don't just have rights, we also have homework. These political decisions, sometimes difficult to take and sometimes difficult to accept by the people, have been taken by other European countries with success! I therefore do not find it abnormal to say that there is solidarity but that there is also a responsibility on the part of those to whom this solidarity is directed. These measures are sometimes difficult. Other countries have taken them. Ours also – but on another level, fortunately – takes on its responsibilities in trying to carry out the necessary reforms. Moreover, the management of the euro must take place collectively. If a Member State fails to fulfil its commitments to the single currency, it will weaken. But, in doing so, he brings with him all the other countries of the euro area. This is a risk that we cannot tolerate. I don't think anyone here would accept this scenario. In this context, it is important for Belgium to be extremely proactive in the matter of strengthening economic and monetary union. The last report presented by the five Presidents at the last European Council referred to this need. However, I maintain that it is only when economic and monetary development is healthy and sustainable that social policies can be ensured, and not the other way round. Adjustment measures aimed at the Greek debt were discussed after the full effect of all reforms. What about it? Has this possibility been discussed? What would be the timing of its implementation? On both sides, the will to succeed is absolute. To say otherwise would not be accurate and would be tantamount to a trial of intent. That said, our job is also to consider all possible assumptions. If the discussions did not succeed, what would be the consequences of non-repayment of debt for Europe, but also mainly for Belgium? I would also like you to clarify the legal basis for an exit from Greece from the euro area. In that case, what would be the pattern? What are the risks we need to anticipate, both politically and economically and financially?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic220x.u59	Mr President, Minister, I would like to ask you a little frankness and to go beyond a somewhat hypocritical stance taken by those who are fighting the present Greek government and the people who support it. In relation to Grexit, minister, I would ask you to be honest. Contrary to what my colleague has just said, I think there is a fairly clear will on the part of Germany but also of most European countries, including Belgium, to organise a Grexit. Things seem clear to me. The will is to lead this Grexit by bringing responsibility to Greece. If we analyze things beyond appearances, I have the impression that it is this scenario that is emerging today. When I hear our Prime Minister, Mr. Charles Michel, saying that Mr. Tsipras cannot put a revolver on our head or a knife under our throat, I have the impression that he is a little inverse of the roles. If we listen to Mrs Merkel and others, it is clear that there is, on the one hand, a willingness to impose conditions even harder than those which were rejected by the referendum in Greece and, on the other hand, a clear refusal to restructure the debt as the Greeks demand. In these circumstances, this position is clearly to organize Grexit by bringing responsibility to Greece. I would therefore like you to give your views on this matter. We know you've been putting this idea of Grexit forward for some time. How do you argue this exit? What would be the consequences? We hear that the Greek government does not come with anything on the table. You have expressed your dismay to the Eurogroup about this. I believe that Greece's position is not to want to be stuck in technical discussions which are followed only by a political discussion on debt restructuring. The Greeks first want a commitment from Europe on this restructuring and then come the technical discussions. How do you disagree with this request? The third point concerns the lack of reform to combat clientelism and to bring in taxes. I think that clear reforms have been launched by the current government to reduce the number of departmental advisors, reduce the amount of cars out of price, to evaluate public servants... I will not mention all the measures that are being implemented but that take time; this is not being done in six months. At the level of taxes, there is clearly a desire to increase. However, when the Tsipras government is proposing to increase corporate tax, who is reacting to this idea? It's you, Minister! Do you want to have tax revenues or tax your way of doing taxes and doing politics? How far does interference go? How far do Greeks have to accept interference? Finally, I conclude with the failure of austerity policies in Greece, but also in countries that are regarded as good pupils who have followed the measures imposed, unlike Greece. The situation is also catastrophic. Socially, it is catastrophic in Spain, Portugal and Ireland. At the level of debt, which is such an important criterion for Europe, we see that it is also a disaster. In Greece, from 2008 to the present, debt has increased 1.5 times, but in Ireland, Spain and Portugal the situation is worse. In Ireland debt was multiplied by 2.8, in Portugal by 1.8 and in Spain by 2.5. This means that the debt-to-GDP ratio has increased even more in these countries than in Greece. Can you recognise that these austerity policies have failed and have led to an increase in the debt-to-GDP ratio? Do you deny these figures, which are obvious, and therefore the failure of these austerity policies, the failure that we see throughout Europe, including Belgium, since apart from four or five countries, debt has increased everywhere in Europe? Do you recognize the failure of these austerity policies and the right of Greece, but also of all the peoples of Europe, to question them?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic220x.u60	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic220x.u61	Mr President, I am pleased that we have the opportunity to have this exchange of views. An exchange of views was initially planned with the President of the Greek Parliament, but I would very much like to take the opportunity to have the debate here today, in the heat of the battle, after a six-month political joust. On 25 January 2015, Syriza was elected and on 28 January 2015, three days later, the President of the British Central Bank, Mark Carney, declared that the eurozone is stuck in the debt marsh and has to step away from the hard savings policy. That was long before we were in the current chapter. At the end of the 1990s, the IMF admitted that its recovery programme for developing countries in the 1980s had not actually worked, quite the contrary. In the meantime, we have seen a report and an analysis by the IMF advocating a debt restructuring for Greece. Prime Minister Tsipras waved it. While Mrs Lagarde takes a very different position or position from her staff in that note. Why do I say that? The game we have seen over the past few months is not rational. The exercise that was made was not an exercise to come to a solution together with the political leaders of the euro area, but almost a game with which one wanted to test who was the strongest and who would lose out, not what worked best. However, it has been clear for a long time that this type of policy is not enough for the population throughout Europe, including Greece. Poverty in the euro area has exploded, including in those countries that have pursued such an austerity policy. We can even see a flight from Portugal and Spain to ex-colonies in Latin America and even Africa, to Angola, to find work there, because unemployment among young people, including Spain, is almost 60%. This is not a success story for Europe. This story should be looked at in the context of the European political project. I agree with a large part of Mr Van Biesen's discourse just now, but I am waiting for the exercise in the direction of a solution, which comes both from the euro group and from the Tsipras government. I said in Parliament that reform is necessary, not only for the Greek Government and Greece, but also for us, for Europe. Many citizens are waiting for us to take that step. Between 2010 and 2012, pensions were cut 12 times in Greece. The VAT level is currently one of the highest in the euro area as a whole. In 2012, it was predicted that the Greek debt would fall below 110 % of GDP in 2022 after the exercises and proposed reforms. In the referendum that took place, it really doesn't matter whether or not it was obsolete at the time, the Eurogroup and the rest of the troika knew that this package of measures would not even get below 140 percent. What the hell are we doing right now? What is the result of this for the political project Europe and for the economic and democratic project which should take shape in Greece? How do we give oxygen to that? That is the question that concerns me today as a democrat in Belgium. We know that a grexit would have a disastrous effect on the Greeks and would also have a disastrous effect on politics. Poverty in Greece would only increase further. Moreover, the instability in the rest of the Balkans would infect Europe and the European project would be undermined. We do not even need the grexit to see how anti-European feelings are rising. We absolutely want to avoid that scenario. We want Greece to really tackle clientelism, corruption and fraud, as well as huge expenditure on defence, to continue to be 5,6 billion, and to go after the many outstanding billions of unclaimed taxes. That is what we want today. There is not even a register in Greece that would allow us to know who has what is true and how many late payments there are. That is the level at which we are talking. I want to know the position of our country in relation to a grexit. Is that an option for us or are we saying that as long as Greece doesn't want to go with it, we will inevitably go there? Is that our position, when analyses have come out of the IMF that indicate that the tough attitude of the troika is counterproductive and therefore for our Belgian people, as taxpayers, only means that there is even less guarantee that we will get our money back? Why don't we take a look at it this way? For the 6 billion still outstanding, we have not only less guarantee, but in the current situation we know that if we continue to pursue this kind of austerity policy, the chances of us ever seeing that money again will not exist. How do we feel about that? Do we take these analyses to heart? I'm not talking about Piketty, I'm talking about the Jeffrey Sachs of this world. I am talking about the presidents of the central banks. I'm talking about those people who belong in the normal right-wing conservative camp. They have asked the Eurogroup with open letters to amend this policy because it does not work. Are we going to think about a way to give the economy in Greece oxygen? It is not an export-oriented economy, but it lives on tourism. For example, it has a huge possibility of this coming from Green to take a major step forward in the field of renewable energy, also in favour of the rest of Europe, which could make it an exporting country. Is that an option? Such options have never been proposed by the troika. Is that what you're thinking? What lessons have we learned from the fact that public debt in Greece has exploded in a negative way in recent years? How will this lead to an adjustment of the reform proposals made by the countries and the Eurogroup itself? In what way does our country want to play a role in this? You are well aware that this situation is once again a banking crisis. The fact that the Greek banks are closed today is not due to the uncertainty and debate between political leaders. No, it's to prevent those banks from falling over immediately. Only part of the money can be collected to ensure that the money does not flow abroad and the banks do not turn massively. We know that too. Again, what have we learned from the past period? We can make analyses of the past. I think everyone agrees that Greece has not made a clean journey in the last 40 years. We know that Didier Reynders himself knew that Greece did not really belong in the euro area. He admitted that in so many words. They knew, but it happened. We can continue to talk about this, but what steps can we take to try to move towards a solution? How can we make it clear to the Greeks that it is for the people and not for a leadership game to prove who has the most testosterone, or to lobby, like Mr Dijsselbloem, for a re-election as President of the euro group, or even as Mrs Lagarde, who will be re-elected as President of the IMF in 2016. If the IMF knows that the recipe is not working, if the eurogroup knows that the recipe has not had a good effect, how are we going to adjust it? What will be the position of our country? Do you agree with me that a grexit, both for Greece and for Europe, is absolutely a bad option?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic220x.u62	Mr President, I will try to give my answers succinctly and groupedly, otherwise we will have a very long sitting to which I have no objection. First of all, I would like to remind you of what has happened in the last ten days. I'm going back to the Friday of two weeks ago. At a time when the hope was still very real that Greece and the creditors, either directly or through the three institutions, would reach an agreement, the Greek negotiators left the negotiating table very unexpectedly. That was, believe me, a thunderbolt in the clear sky. No one expected that. It wasn't announced in any way. Even less was announced than a few hours later the announcement of the referendum. From the government we have been sufficiently clear about this: there is no one who denies the Greek government the right to hold a referendum. But the fact that it suddenly came between the data on the table was not conducive to the underlying understanding. Moreover, and this is crucial, the Greek Government said very explicitly that it needed that referendum in order to get a mandate. She considered herself deprived of a mandate to continue the negotiations. In other words, there was no point in talking to a government which declared itself to be decommissioned. According to this iron logic, the negotiations have been suspended for a full week. Mr Varoufakis then said in the most bizarre way that negotiations were still going on, but that really was total disinformation. Nothing has been negotiated between the weekend before and the referendum itself, with the result being 61 % versus 39 %. What exactly did the Greek people say in that referendum? I assume that you have read the text submitted to the Greek people or their translation. They asked the Greek people if they wanted change or if they wanted it to go on as it was. I believe that this was a very suggestive question in this context, because it would have been very surprising if the Greek people had not wanted to change. I believe that the Greek people have spoken in this sense: it must be changed. This seems very understandable to me. Mr Tsipras made it clear that he saw the outcome of the referendum as a major asset that he could put on the table in the negotiations. Therefore, the expectations were very high to see first in the eurogroup yesterday and then in the euro summit of the Heads of Government what concrete proposals would be put forward to pull things off again. The bewilderment was therefore very great when it appeared that nothing came on the table. This, ladies and gentlemen, has been a constant throughout the eight months in which I myself have been involved in these negotiations. I have seen a barrage of proposals and suggestions made by several Greek government leaders in the media. I didn't see any of that on the negotiating table. The negotiating table included slogans and vague intentions, but never very concrete proposals for measures on taxation, reorganisations or restructuring. It was always about very vague, general principles and never about concrete proposals. This was repeated yesterday. Both in the eurogroup and at the euro summit, no concrete proposals have been made by the Greek Government where it wants to go, what it wants to achieve and how it intends to achieve it. The Greek Government has always been relatively clear about what it did not want in the media, much less in the negotiations. Of course, it is difficult to make policy agreements on the basis of what a party does not want. It is much more efficient and constructive to know what one wants. It has also been suggested to Greece, with the regularity of a clock, and apparently even before the period I was in the negotiations, to take action, independently of programmes, which had to be carried out in the interests of the Greek economy and the Greek population. The example that is always on the table is tax collection. What is stopping this Greek government and previous Greek governments from doing something about the way in which taxes are collected? That, of course, has far-reaching repercussions. If one proposes to increase certain taxes as part of the package, but everyone knows that the tax system does not work, then there is no credibility in proposing to achieve certain results through tax increases or other tax interventions. What are we waiting for to do something about that? Well, that's what happened. Belgium, among others, has had two VAT carousels specialists in Greece on site for months. They have made concrete proposals, made analyses, rolled out ICT programmes to show how it could be done. Within the shortest time after they left, their work was dead letter. What are we waiting for? We are waiting for a Greek government that is willing to live in Greece and we are living in a democracy and cannot do anything about it; we want to make sure that, for example, the tax system is finally going to work as it should in a modern state. I have just been asked about my specific contribution. I myself have constantly applied in the meetings for concrete proposals to Mr Varoufakis' predecessor, Mr Varoufakis' predecessor, and yesterday to his successor, very humbly. Anyone who speaks of arrogance from the euro group is really wrong: everything is done to ask with all possible consideration and humility for concrete proposals, things that we can judge, things that we can fill in. If that doesn't happen, it's gonna be a deaf man's conversation in the long run. You can't keep talking to yourself. What is the position of Belgium in general in this situation? It has been clear and consistent. If the Greek Government comes up with serious proposals and not just vague intentions, then anything remains possible. We'll need a hoodtop if we're gonna be able to hang on to business. Of course, the situation created by the Tsipras government in the past four to five months is in a very difficult situation. We could not possibly extend the programme that ended on 30 June. This would have never been accepted by a majority within the euro group and the euro area, given the way the cards were. It will be very difficult for the ECB to intervene if there is not at least a reference framework, such as a programme. I do not wish to comment on what the ECB should or should not do. I am convinced that over the past 15 years the ECB has proven to be up to its task. This is a very special situation. It is the people of the ECB who must decide what can and cannot be done for them in the context of their vocation and statutes. But there has been a pressure on time and this pressure on time is the result of the actions of the Greek Government. Let's face it, there is now a demand for a third programme. That question needs to be answered. This is an application to the ESM and not to the EFSF. The conditions to be met are slightly different from the previous programmes. This means that in the next few hours the Greek Government will be concrete about what it wants to do about the various aspects that need to be dealt with in order to get the Greek economy on the right track. At that time, the three institutions, the hated troika, must express their views on this matter. On the basis of these evaluations and further discussions within the eurogroup, a number of countries will then have to go to their parliament to have that validated. These aren't the rules that were invented yesterday or last week. These are the rules of the game that have been established in the euro area over the years. So, on the one hand, with a situation of very great financial pressure on Greece and, on the other hand, with a situation where, because of the attitude of the Tsipras Government, there is now a kind of gap, a period that is needed to get that third programme started effectively. That is a very difficult situation. Again, it is not for me to point the finger at the European Central Bank. Questions have also been asked about the debt restructuring. I refer to the decision taken in the framework of the Eurogroup of 27 November 2012. It was then decided that if, in the context of the implementation of an agreed programme, the progress of that programme is deemed necessary to consider a debt restructuring, this is possible. That decision remains valid today, and the Eurogroup is still unanimous in its support. Allow me, however, to put on the table in this context a few things which are less important, but which are very real. As a percentage of GDP, Greece's interest burden is significantly lower today than, for example, for countries such as Italy and Portugal. That is a first point. Secondly, within the Eurogroup, the representatives of countries such as Portugal, Ireland and Spain do not have the slightest doubt that if debt restructuring is allowed to Greece, they will immediately ask the same question. I understand the attitude of those countries. Are we going to come to a situation where, within monetary union, debt-taking can happen with the prospect of its transfer to the rest of the euro area, to the whole of the euro area, if that debt is high enough? It is called moral hazard and that sounds complicated, but it means that everyone must take responsibility for it in a monetary union. It is therefore unacceptable that the debt should be passed on to the whole of the Community, in this case the euro group as a whole. The geopolitical considerations have been taken into account or taken into account in the discussions. As has just been pointed out by several interpretants, it is very difficult to make a correct assessment of what, for example, you allow me to use this word for a moment, namely the freedom between Mr Tsipras and Mr Putin. For Mr Putin's Russia, the situation today is somewhat different from a situation of USD 120 for a barrel of oil, because that amount is significantly lower today, so the room for manoeuvre is also less. As far as Turkey is concerned, we must wait and see what that means. I can, however, give the following considerations. There has always been a double starting point for the euro group. Firstly, there is consideration for Greece and, above all, for the Greek population. No one in the euro group is aware of what is happening in Greece today. Of course, there is a social and human tragedy there today. At the same time, this is why these people are sitting there, and this is why they have a responsibility to the whole of monetary union. It is a decision that we all took in 1999, on which a great deal of our prosperity has now depended on everyone and with which we must therefore be careful. We cannot simply take any decision in the context of monetary union, which by definition means that there is respect for agreements and rules. There's got to be. One can't get out of there. I'll keep the impact on Belgium to the last. I would like to enter into a further economic discussion with those who say that Greece does not have an export industry. That is true at first sight, but I would like to point out to those who make this statement that, if one thinks carefully about it, tourism is also an export industry. If I may express myself economically, there is today a very large market loss for Turkey in terms of tourist attraction to other countries that offer similar conditions. I am talking about sunshine and beaches and not about the cultural heritage of the country. The person of Mr Dijsselbloem has also been mentioned here. I have the greatest respect for Mr Dijsselbloem. These were and are very difficult circumstances. Mr Dijsselbloem is indeed a socialist, but that does not matter to me. I hear Mr Crombez describes him as a social democrat, which apparently is something else. In my humble appreciation, Mr Dijsselbloem has done an excellent job. At all times, he has taken account of the two basic considerations, which I have just given, in a very balanced and thoughtful manner. He did not let himself be chased by one camp, or by another, or led him into one-sided positions. I would also like to draw everyone's attention to the fact that, through the IMF, the voice of the international community is resounding in this regard. It is all too easy to say that the IMF is a group of technocrats who, on the basis of sophisticated economic models, push forward all kinds of decisions. In the IMF Board, the non-European countries and regions are in the majority, of course. So if there is a position from the IMF, which is hard for the euro group or for some of the euro group's constituents, then that is what the international community is talking about. It might not be a bad thing to listen once in a while if countries such as Brazil and India, through the IMF, let us know that we are supposed to put things in order and not fall into situations such as those we are now in, mostly I will continue to repeat this with great certainty as a result of what has happened from the Tsipras government. As far as Belgium is concerned, we have EUR 6.82 billion in total. This is essentially through two channels, namely bilateral loans, six in total for EUR 1.85 billion, and the guarantees given to the EFSF, the European Financial Stability Facility, for EUR 4.87 billion. That is, of course, our share in that whole pot of the EFSF. That 6,82 billion is already in the state debt. If today's public debt is more than 400 billion, that 6,82 billion is already an integral part of it. What is, of course, on the subject of Greece's default is that at the time when we should normally have received refunds from Greece after 2020, which of course will not be there. At that time, therefore, there will be a slightly higher level of public debt than could be seen from the trajectory that is being drawn out today. If there is a default of Greece for those debts, Eurostat rules today stipulate that it should be included in its deficit, in the current deficit for 2015 if it occurs in 2015, in 2016 if it occurs in 2016. This situation is the same for all euro area countries, because everyone has contributed. As has already been discussed in the Eurogroup, although it is, of course, the ultimate responsibility of Eurostat within the European framework, a special line could be provided within the budgets of all countries, because it is a very special case with an impact on the current budget. Indeed, the National Bank has, on the one hand, Greek paper and, on the other hand, through the European Central Bank, of course, it also has a share in the entire portfolio of the European Central Bank. If this is to be written off as part of a default, it will of course also have repercussions for the National Bank. I'm rounding up. Until this year, the federal government received 700 million from the National Bank in the form of a dividend. This year, partly due to the repercussions of QE, that has already been reduced to half, for reasons of caution. We have 340 million in the budget today. If there is a Greek default, it goes without saying that the profitability of the National Bank will also be put under further pressure. Then the dividend that she can pay will also come under pressure, something that we will have to take into account within the federal government, in the formulation of the budget. Finally, something about a possible grexit. In the current situation, a grexit does not remain an option for the Belgian Government. Is the grexit option therefore excluded? No. The grexit option will always, in all circumstances, be the result of decisions or non-decisions taken by the Greek Government. Anyone talking about a grexit today should call Athens in a manner of speaking. None of the 18 other finance ministers are aiming for a grexit. On the contrary, everyone wants to avoid that. If the Greek Government takes a number of decisions which inevitably go in that direction, then it will be prepared. Those are the messages we are getting, especially from the European Commission.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic220x.u63	Thank you, Minister, for your detailed reply. I think it is very good to hear our Minister who took part in all these discussions and who can nuance and clarify certain points of view. That is important for this committee. We are now in a situation where it is important in the 19 parliaments what is happening. We pretend that there is only one democracy, which in Greece, while legislation on the Six-Pack, the Two-Pack and the euro in 2000 are all the result of democratic decision-making, even at European level. The European Parliament, the European Commission and the European Council of Ministers also have a democratic basis, and so do the parliaments. Parliament has also followed all these directives, treaties and regulations. If we are to get into situations like we are at the moment, I believe that everyone must do their part of democracy and have the courage to finally accept a decision in which one country can hopefully not block everything, because then the European Union will collapse. I am talking not only about the euro, but also about many other issues. Everyone must respect the fact that democracy in all its parts, in the various governments and parliaments, has a voice in this matter. Albert Coppé, who has been the European Commissioner for Belgium for 20 years, once told me that without confidence nothing is possible. Maybe no one remembers him. He was one of the co-founders of the ECSC, at the time of the generation of Schuman, Adenauer and Monnet. Albert Coppé was actually the first high Belgian Commissioner. We got economics from him in Leuven. He said that a European construction would not be possible without confidence. What we are seeing now is a total distrust. If confidence is not restored, a technical financial and economic solution will of course not be possible either. I'll give you the floor for the replies. I would ask you to be relatively short, although there is still time. Mr Deseyn, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic220x.u64	Minister, we must never forget that we want to save a country and its people despite the lack of political leadership that has been shown. It is good that you mentioned the concrete example of the two Belgian specialists. I was kind of wondering how they relate to the entire civil service. They have undoubtedly done very meritorious work, but it may be necessary in the coming weeks to free up much more capacity for this. You have said very well and clearly that a grexit is not an option for the Belgian Government. All scenarios of assistance, assistance and even debt restructuring, which you say can be, are at issue. You say that Spain and Portugal may be the following questioners. There too we will have to show some coolness, otherwise they will be the next potential victims. They actually have different forms. Everyone realizes that. It is not because there is a precedent that it should always be used or that it would be good for the whole or for the countries concerned. That's a very nuanced hypothesis. Anyway, I welcome the government's commitment to this.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic220x.u65	Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister for his detailed explanation, especially as regards the impact on Belgian public debt, on the budget, on the National Bank and so on. It was very enlightening to know what the possible scenarios are. You said that the referendum was a clear signal that things had to be different. Over the last few weeks and months, we have seen that the Tsipras government has always asked for an extension of European aid, but refused to accept the associated savings conditions any longer. After the referendum, we see that Tsipras is asking for financial support again. Today Greece has again submitted a formal request to the emergency fund from which the aid programmes for Greece are paid. Unfortunately, that scenario remains the same. Syriza, according to the classical socialist recipe, wants the pleasure, but not the burden. Hopefully, this isn't a possible scenario. Mr Dedecker just tried to throw my party in a pile with the communists because we were also pleased with the Oxi-Jannibal. We are certainly not in favour of further pumping money into a bottomless pit. At the time, we did not believe Prime Minister Leterme when he said that a loan to Greece could be a good investment. We have always been the only party to consistently oppose all kinds of constructions of emergency aid. It was already clear at that time that there was a very low chance that it would be repaid. If politicians want to invest with their own money in a bankrupt company, that's their right. But they do not have that right when it comes to taxpayers' money. Apart from the fact that all European countries are paying for it and the northern countries are being financially sucked out in this way, it has no effect. We have seen that in recent years the Greek has not been helped by the flow of European money, quite the contrary. It's kind of like the Walls in the Belgian context. Making themselves financially dependent on the European Union is not working. [[The comments made by the speaker were taken into account.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic220x.u66	Madam Pass, can you finish?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic220x.u67	Mr President, I understand that people do not like to hear this. I'll finish up.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic220x.u68	Everyone is equal before the law, ladies and gentlemen. It's about a reply. Miss Pass, round off.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic220x.u69	Mr President, I am pleased that the referendum has brought the step towards a Grexit closer. I note that Belgium is not in favour of it, but also that Commission President Juncker has suddenly come up with a detailed plan. I hope that they are prepared for that. A euro area in which one third of euro area countries need to receive support Portugal, Ireland, Italy, Spain and Cyprus is neither sustainable nor affordable. We must, as many economists say, move towards a currency union with a northern and a southern currency, which is at least in line with economic reality. Crampy sticking to the euro as it exists today is unpayable or perseverable. In that sense, we see a grexit as an opportunity. I hope that this will have a domino effect in the future, so that Greece itself can provide the necessary oxygen for its economy.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic220x.u70	Mr President, Minister, I would like to thank you for the comprehensive answer and for the comprehensive overview of our exposure and risks. A grexit is not the preferred scenario for anyone, not the creditors and, of course, not for Greece itself. In fact, it's getting sneaky. The Greek Government has, of course, also contributed to this. It is also good to know that, despite the fact that it is not a preferred scenario, we have already been prepared. This seems essential to me. You also pointed out that a possible new plan, if anything credible were to come from the Greek Government, would have to be approved by the national parliament in a number of countries. It seems very important to me to underline this, so that we do not forget this, because democracy plays a role there too. It was thought in Greece that democracy meant holding a referendum in Greece, but of course there are 18 other democracies. The referendum was a very strange move by Varoufakis. He may be a specialist in game theory, but I think he clearly overplayed his hand there, if he had any cards in his hands. Money falling out of the sky is not exactly a card that is in hand. This brings me to the debt restructuring and a partial discharge. Clearly, this is a street without an end. We must think of the countries that until recently were referred to by the acronym PIIGS or GIPSI. Given that Greece is already in a default scenario, it can already be assumed that there is little chance that we will ever see our money again, but we cannot accept that. In any case, it is not an argument to start pleading for a debt discharge, especially in view of the domino effect. However, we must also remain convinced of the serious social and human tragedy in Greece. There's no denying that. There is no point in referring only to Europe or to the IMF, on the contrary. If a plan is drawn up, it will have to be drawn up jointly with a huge input from the Greek Government. The responsibility of the Greek Government cannot be ignored. For example, you have rightly referred to the correct collection of taxes. Today in Greece there is de facto a kind of exemption for certain groups of the population, which is, of course, unacceptable and which increases misery for ordinary Greeks. There is nothing stopping the Syrian Government from doing something about it itself, and we even support the government in doing so, because we have two people on the ground. The Syrian government could even opt to use the recipes that the red and green peers here propagate, of course, within the assumption that they would work. I would like to emphasise that we want to continue to support the correct collection of taxes. I am convinced that we are not the only ones willing to make such an effort, as this increases the chance of a refund for everyone. Of course, solidarity plays a role in this area too, and it is important to underline this.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic220x.u71	I'm always scared when I hear Mr. Dedecker. It is true that the minister is wiser in his remarks. This somewhat binary view of the situation is not going to help us get out of this crisis from the top. You have described the situation, given your vision of things, in this it is democraticly appreciative since you represent us in the Eurogroup. However, I have not heard in your leadership what the way forward would be for an exit from the crisis and what role Belgium could play in this exit from the crisis. The impression that we can have is that we are moving towards something that is the order of an explosion in the euro area, that everyone rejects responsibility and that no one takes the responsibility of saying stop at the Eurogroup or at European summits! and to consider the problem otherwise than has been envisaged so far because it has obviously not worked. You describe the failure of previous aid plans, but you do not question the causes of this failure. It's a bit about the egg and the chicken. Have we failed because the solutions were not the right ones – my conviction is that they were unable to lead to an improvement in the situation – or because these solutions were not implemented by the previous Greek governments? You say that there are no proposals from the Greek government. I am disturbed by this, because I also understand that the Greek Government - and again earlier, Mr Tsipras - is saying that proposals have been put on the table. We've seen lists circulated. Is there no proposal or is there no proposal that is acceptable to you? You talked about credible solutions, especially in the fight against tax fraud. Setting up a tax system and its administration in a country where there has been no tax system for 40 years and that has been the policy of privileges, it takes time. Is it not always easy to call for pension reforms, in particular - or a reduction in public intervention - rather than allowing time for solutions to be put in place? If you were to lead a new government whose mission would be to change everything in Belgium, it would take you a few months or a few years to build a tax administration that would not exist. You can still admit this fact? I'm afraid the key is what you said about debt restructuring: it could set a precedent! And then other countries would ask to get out of austerity policies. This, the budgetary authorities, whether democratic or less democratic, refuse to do so because they remain attached to their dogma of austerity. It would be too much to question what they have advocated in the last 20 years. Yet it is the only solution to an exit from the crisis. This is the result of the referendum in Greece. When people no longer eat to their hunger, no longer know how to treat themselves, no longer know how to get their pension money from their bank, they revolt. This is what is happening in Greece but also in other countries, perhaps less spectacularly today. Austerity revenues have not worked and it is necessary to call them into question more fundamentally. I hope that by Sunday a solution, which will be only in the short term with regard to Greece, can be found, but that then we will call into question the path of austerity, which obviously does not lead us to anything at all economically, not to mention the social and environmental issues to which we are committed. But as an economist, you must see that austerity solutions do not work.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic220x.u72	Mr President, I have three comments to make. Firstly, I regret that I did not receive an answer to my practical proposal, in particular the use of the double taxation convention and the exchange of information with Greece. As of 1 September 2015, we will do so with the United States. I don't see why we couldn't do that to the Greeks. I think that Greece is more in need of this support and information available in Belgium. By the way, I would just like to point out that the first reform plan, under the previous government, dismissed officials from the Treasury. I do not believe that this will help to bring about a well-functioning tax administration in Greece. Secondly, in his intervention, the Minister places the responsibility for the current situation unilaterally with Greece, in particular with Syria. I note that others, such as Karel De Gucht on Sunday evening or Guy Verhofstadt in De Morgen, do not quote people from my political family who have said that there is a shared responsibility for the difficult situation in which the European Union finds itself. If you ask me, there is a clash at the European level that continues, against better knowledge, to tackle the problems of the post-financial crisis, not only in Greece, but also in the wider European Union, on the basis of formulas such as Washington Consensus, neoliberal recipes, call them what you want to call ultra-savings, privatisations, government degreasing, etc. Colleagues, look at the figures. This doesn't work in Greece. As if the situation were not bad enough, a new government would be forced to impose more of the same. What do they want? That the GDP is even lower than 25%? That the debt rises even higher than 180 %? That youth unemployment is running at 60%? I believe that this is a shared responsibility. I am not defending the Syrian government in everything, but she is right when she says that enough is enough. And not more of the same medicine that doesn't work anyway. Thirdly, I have unfortunately heard nothing about investment. I believe that Greece can only be removed from the problems by starting the economy. This is not done by removing purchasing power and by increasing VAT on, among other things, the tourism industry, as proposed in the reform plans; I do not believe in that. I have heard the Minister say that if there is a debt restructuring, other countries will also ask. Unless I am mistaken, and I would like to hear it from the Minister.................................................................................................................................................................................................... As far as I know, it does not say that of the other countries listed by the Minister. Are we really going to try to help that country, or are we going to stick to the economic unity of which it has been proven everywhere in the last five or six years that it is not working? It does not work in Greece, nor in the European Union. We are the economic bloc that has been the worst since the financial crisis. So there must be something else, and I believe that this is, among other things, an investment-oriented policy. I'm sorry I didn't hear about that today. I know that Mr Juncker is talking about money at the disposal of Greece, but to my knowledge that is not new money, but bringing together money that is in different jars. We will need some sort of Marshall Plan to get the countries of the south out of trouble, in addition to Greece, Spain and Portugal. But no, the ultra-saving policy, inspired by the Washington Consensus, continues to be maintained. We know it's from the IMF. As a tier-smondist who has been following development cooperation for a long time, I know what damage the IMF has done in several countries. It is not the first country to be destroyed by such formulas. We are now doing it with Greece, if we do not change our shoulder.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic220x.u73	Mr President, Mr Crusnière had to leave this committee to go to another committee, so I will say a few words in reply. Minister, thank you for your answers, which are in fact elements of context. I would be tempted to say "more relational than technical elements of context" finally about the relationship with the Greek leaders and your feeling about the referendum that you tend to trivialize a bit. That's my perception, anyway. You say: "Finally, ask them whether they want the change or the status quo, the result was predictable." Indeed, it was predictable that they wanted change. When one sees the impact on their daily lives, one could at the limit expect a stronger result so much the impact for them is important. When the chairman of the committee tells us that this is only the opinion of one of the nineteen democracies to be consulted in the context, I think that this one is more severely affected than the others. We have to take that into account. It seems to me that there is a tendency to scare public opinion in other countries. We have talked about the possible impact, with all the difficulty of encrypting it, of Greece's failure. But what would be the impact of a moratorium, a rescheduling? The impact is quite different. There is a tendency to say that there will also be a significant impact and to scare people. With regard to what the minister has told us about Greece's attitude at the various meetings and its request to have concrete proposals from Greece, like other colleagues, I wonder whether there has been an exchange of views on the framework in which proposals are expected? I don't feel there was any discussion at that level. What are the budgetary requirements? What budgetary requirements are we in relation to the primary budget surplus? I have heard some economists say that we should have stopped the level of demand from the moment the balance of the primary budget was reached. I have not heard any reply on this subject. I also heard from you that you referred to the limits of the European Central Bank and its Statute in the role it could play. These statutes have already been somewhat twisted in some ways in order to move their role forward without changing them. I am thinking in particular of the lines that have been planned to inject money back into the banking system. This is the time to review the solidarity mechanisms both in terms of sovereign debts and the role of the ECB and in terms of the recovery that we want to have at European level.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic220x.u74	Minister, thank you for your answer. I listened carefully. I would tend to say, if I were to sum it up, that I felt you out of control, exasperated by the unsuccessful dialogue in which you must participate. In a way, I can understand that. I can understand that by repeatedly attending meetings that do not lead to anything, by insisting on proposals that apparently do not come, you have this feeling of impatience and exasperation. At the same time, if I stand on the other side, I think the feeling is quite different. When I heard Mrs Pas speak out by making a parallel between the Greeks, the people of southern Europe, and the Walloons, the people of the southern part of the country, I felt personally insulted. I have, however, in my foreground, the conviction that the Walloons probably have things to do to ensure the recovery of their Region, but the feeling that I had is to be insulted and humiliated. If I make the parallel, I think that the Greeks, even if they are aware of the efforts they must make, must feel humiliated and despised by this dialogue of the deaf. I am finally quite worried because I have the impression that between the outcasts on one side and the humiliated on the other, there is obviously a dialogue of the deaf that, if it continues, will accentuate the stubborn confrontation between the radicals of the two sides that will not allow us to emerge from the marasm in which we collectively find ourselves. The answer you provide does not reassure me as to the way out of the crisis. I have the feeling that you have a very unilateral view of responsibilities. You have pointed out your objections to Mr Tsipras in relation to the referendum that he is organizing and the impossibility of making concrete proposals. All this may not be wrong, but my feeling is that responsibilities are more shared. I have not heard in your comment any form of collective self-criticism about the functioning of Europe and the management of this crisis. I think that this somewhat unilateral vision unfortunately does not prepare for a collective surge. Secondly, I have not heard in your mouth any specific indication of the role of Belgium. I'm overreacting. You said that Belgium had sent two VAT experts to Greece. That's good. It is a form of support that can be welcomed. You said that you yourself had repeatedly insisted on concrete proposals from Mr Tsipras. That's good, too. But these two actions are not objectively up to the stakes. What I expect of my country, given its European vocation, its European history, is to play a truly driving role, a proactive role in the search for an exit scenario. I did not feel that our country, through you or through the head of government, is playing a leading role in seeking to overcome confrontation and compromise. Thirdly, it is probably not a surprise, but honestly, I did not feel in your speech any element relating to a vision of the future for Europe. I have not heard anything opening up future prospects for European integration. I am saddened by the fact that whatever is thought of the referendum and its outcome, I think that we can at any rate agree that the Greek "no" was not a "no" to Europe, to the European construction or to the euro. I think that, on the contrary, there was in the message delivered by the Greeks, at the limit both by the supporters of the "yes" and by the supporters of the "no", a desire for another Europe; no less Europe, but a better Europe, which would perhaps be more attentive than it has been so far to the quality of life of all its citizens, to investment in the economy, rather than to the only balance of public finances. I am in a state of frustration with this aspiration for an alternative Europe, for a more humane economy than we should all urgently set up because time will be short. Thank you for your answers, but I remain with this dissatisfaction with these three shortcomings that I have just pointed out.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic220x.u75	Minister, I would like to thank you for the very comprehensive answer. Today we have taken note of the actual negotiations under way. I also feel that we are talking about and looking for solutions, clearly stating that a grexit is not an option for you and for the government and that you are trying to avoid it by all means. In the past, this was a little too much discussed. I think it is very important that we do so in all circumstances. But above all, we must also take into account the difficult situation of the ordinary Greek man. We must be strict with those who make it fundamentally wrong. In my view, this has certainly not happened during the last few months under the Tsipras administration, but has been doing so for much longer. In fact, the whole structure and the economy need to be dealt with. We must, of course, make every effort to help in this respect. As a liberal, I could say that you should not send two inspectors, but all inspectors to Greece, then there are no more checks in Belgium. Of course, that's just a boltade to introduce the case. However, we must take all the elements with us in order to develop the economy and economy. I would certainly like to discuss monetary policy again. Monetary policy could do a great deal in Greece. An important suggestion that has just been raised is that one should not only look at debt renewals and the like. A new ECB project has been launched. In doing so, money was given to each country to support the real economy. It therefore seems to me that we should look at whether the real economy was actually supported. Or has there been only a certain transfer to repay certain loans? I think it is important to check whether the efforts made at all levels do indeed benefit the economy. Perhaps you should check with your fellow ministers of the European Union and with the representatives of the IMF whether the money from the Juncker plan and the ECB's project, with monthly billions of investments, really gets into the economy? Are they creating growth in the economy, even in difficult circumstances such as Greece?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic220x.u76	Minister, I would like to thank you for your explanation. Very briefly, what I remember is what I had started my speech on: you are telling us that, so far, there have been no serious concrete proposals put on the table during the discussions. It is within the groups that we need to discuss, not through the media. Indeed, as long as there is no concrete proposal, it is very difficult to reach an agreement. I share the hope that there will be proposals that are actually put on the table, not just to please creditors. Greece itself needs a series of important reforms to ensure its own development outside of any agreement or commitment to its creditors. The other thing that I remember, too, is that you have still thwarted the somewhat fanciful accusations that were heard in this room, according to which everyone's action actually pushed Greece towards the exit of the euro. You told us that this was not at all an option. I heard again that there was no evidence that there was a will to get away with it. I heard the other way around. We're waiting to see what's on the table. Once there's something on the table, it's all open. You said it. I'm very pleased with that. If now you want to see negative and use a very complicated situation elsewhere for indoor cooking, that is a choice but, personally, I do not believe in it and I do not subscribe to this approach.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic220x.u77	I will be able to respond directly to Mrs Wilmès on the basis of the Minister's comments. First of all, as far as Grexit is concerned, I have listened very carefully to you, Minister. What did you say? That this is not an option for the Belgian government, but if the Greek government forces us to do so, we are preparing this option. "If the Greek government compels us to do so, we prepare it." What does that mean? That is not to accept all that we are imposing on the Greek Government, i.e. no debt restructuring and totally unacceptable conditions, since they are worse than those which the referendum refused. If we read what you're saying, you're preparing Grexit, it's clear! Secondly, as far as debt restructuring is concerned, you say why not, and immediately thereafter, you say that if it is granted to Greece, Spain and Portugal will also ask for it. Therefore, you are clearly saying no to debt restructuring. Be clear, start by saying that! This is a clear rejection of debt restructuring, when we know that Greece is not able to repay. Thirdly, you say that the Greek government has not made a proposal in eight months. Excuse me, Mr. Minister, Mrs. Wilmès, but that's a lie! Excuse me, minister, but there is no other term than a lie. Just before the referendum, all the proposals that were submitted to... (...): (...) They are launched in the media but not put on the table.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic220x.u78	If they are not on the table, how can the IMF block all these measures? The IMF can block all measures, joined by the ECB, (...): (...) Not to the Eurogroup!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic220x.u79	Not on the Eurogroup table, but submitted to the ECB, submitted to the IMF and submitted to the European Commission! Don't play words. If the troika refuses all this, excuse me, but it cannot be said that Greece does not make any proposals. This is a lie!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic220x.u80	No, excuse me, you make it look like Greece is not making any proposals. She's made dozens of proposals! (...): (...) All this has never been put on the Eurogroup table!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic220x.u81	And what is put on the troika table doesn't matter? How can the IMF delete all proposals if they have not been tabled on the table, joined by the other troika countries? Fourthly, the exhibition of Belgium. I would remind you that if Belgium is exposed, it is because it has taken over the debts of private banks, that is because these debts have been nationalised. I would also point out that only 11% of the money that was lent to Greece benefited the country. The rest benefited creditors. Fifthly, I come to the failure of austerity policies, which I have shown you to be inefficient, not only in Greece but also in Portugal, Spain and Ireland, with a debt that is exploding. You never answer that. Never the slightest answer to the failure of austerity policies in European countries! Sixthly, the opposition does not lie in the fact that one country wants to impose its views on 18 other nations. The opposition lies between political leaders who are linked to the financial world and European populations (Greek, Spanish,...) who oppose austerity policies! Yesterday, in Le Parisien, there was a poll. In France, 75% of the population is against European austerity and I am not talking about the measures you have decided in Belgium when they were not in the electoral programmes. According to you, the Greek people have committed the fault of having made a historic act against a policy of austerity. For you, the Greek people have failed and it must be excluded through a Grexit.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic220x.u82	Mr President, at the time when we are no longer talking about months or weeks, but about hours, I had hoped that we would debate solutions. I really regret that the virulence of disgust towards the Tsipras government is now emerging, although it was democratically elected by the Greek people, and the virulence of what might or might not have been proposed. We should now debate what we can propose from Belgium. I asked a question about the Grexit, to which the Minister replied that it is not an option for us and I am glad to hear it. The question arises as to how to do that. In my discourse, I have made it very clear that the failure of the policies of the past few years must not go unnoticed by the euro group either. Unfortunately, I have not heard the Minister make any statements or proposals on the extent to which the policy of austerity has led to a declining economy, not only in Greece, but also elsewhere, with a high level of poverty. How do we adjust that? I myself, from our group, have put forward a number of proposals for action. In 2010, a list of two thousand Greeks did not pay taxes, while they were among the richest in Greece, the so-called Lagarde list. So far, there's been a major failure. After all, with the help of large banks, billions were locked away from Greece, on which no taxes are paid. As Europe, we say no to this, while the technocrats operating on behalf of the troika prevent that list from being properly examined. That too is now known. Can we please propose from Belgium to install a number of things, such as a land register? I suggest we go after that Lagarde list, and I suggest we go after defense. I mentioned the two things that I believe have a future in Greece to give oxygen to the economy, namely tourism and renewable energy rather than fossil energy, given the constitution of that country. With such proposals, we can go to the eurogroup ourselves and contribute to the solution. I fear that the wells-nothing debates will continue to drag on, in which the blackbird is always sent to the other side, as long as we do not express ourselves in a very specific way how we think we should avoid a grexit. I am very pleased that we are sending VAT experts to Greece, but I would also like to tell you that this is a little worried about the face that the tax shift is going to get from us. I am rather concerned that you are using this as an example and not, for example, the power caster. Perhaps it will also go a little more towards VAT and a little less towards the capabilities. However, you have plenty of time to convince me otherwise. I want to end with a plea not to turn this into an infinite left-right game. As a green party, we say this is a street without an end. We shouldn't pass the blackbird on to each other and pretend this is an oppositional story from one to the other. We have to get to work ourselves and go to the eurogroup with solutions that we believe can avoid the grexit, solutions which, moreover, as I said at the beginning are being pushed forward by a lot of economists, regardless of political ideology. Something else means that we have not played our role as Flanders and Belgium, as Wallonia and Brussels, in Greece, which is nestled in our own Brussels, where most of the meetings of the eurogroup have taken place.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic220x.u83	Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that we have had an extensive exchange of views, and I thank the Minister. We heard this morning that the Tsipras government is going to present a 47-page document tomorrow. Hopefully there are elements in that that can restore confidence and the grexit scenario, which no one hopes will ever happen...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic220x.u84	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic220x.u85	Your view, then, Mr Calvo. We'd like to see your green alternative.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic220x.u86	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic220x.u87	I am pleased that we have been able to have a discussion on the substance, not with slogans, each from its own point of view. I am glad that we have had that discussion, but perhaps we will continue in the next few weeks. It is not just about Greece, it is also about the euro area and the European institutions. The confidence in it is deeply shocked. As I said earlier, if this is not restored, it will be very difficult for Europe, because there are many other dossiers after Greece that will have to be dealt with in the next few years.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic220x.u88	If that ESM fund is to come, we will have to vote on it here in Parliament, if I remember correctly. Let's stay optimistic. If there's an agreement on Sunday, can we deal with it next week?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic220x.u89	Then we can treat that perfectly next week. If that can make a positive contribution, we will bring this committee together immediately. We'll make Mrs. Almaci reporter. I'm counting on the opposition not to come up with second readings or anything like that. If it can really mean a help, or a unblocking, we will certainly go into that from our point of view.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic220x.u90	There are still a number of questions on the agenda. For that, this is our last committee meeting. Next week, between 9 a.m. and 10 a.m. on Tuesday, we still have Minister Jambon, and on Wednesday, between 9 a.m. and 10 a.m. on Monday, Minister Jamar. Today is your last chance to ask questions to Minister Van Overtveldt. There are a lot of questions left. I'm gonna go walk them over. Colleagues who really insist on putting them here orally today must say so. Otherwise, they can decide to convert them into written questions. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Dispa's 5053 was converted into a written question. That brings us to Question No 1, by Mr von der Vring, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic220x.u91	Mr President, I wish to speak on the order of business. In the circumstances, of course, we can turn some oral questions into written questions. We can do this all the more easily if, on the part of the Minister of Finance, we can immediately pass on the possible answer that he has prepared.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic220x.u92	I don't know if that's possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic220x.u93	In general, the Minister's services have prepared responses.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic220x.u94	This is no problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic220x.u95	In my case, this is a technical question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic220x.u96	I sometimes add some elements but the basis of the answer is the same.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic220x.u97	In these circumstances, I would like to turn my oral question No 5642 into a written question if I immediately dispose of the text.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic220x.u98	Mr President, Mr Minister, according to the administrative directives, under the guise of responsibilities, it is the taxing officials of the FPS Finances and the ISI who should defend their taxation, in direct taxes and VAT, before the courts of first instance. The same applies to appeal courts, but only in direct taxes. These officials are often without experience in this area, have only a few cases to defend and have received a few days of procedural training, which leads them to find themselves in a difficult situation in the face of taxpayers sometimes defended by formidable tax lawyers. I have a few names in mind that I won't mention. However, in certain cases it may be decided to entrust the defence of the interests of the Belgian State to a lawyer. Where the case is not assigned to a lawyer, the officials of the judicial cells of the Regional Directorates of Administration and Management of the ISI may also defend the cases in court, accompanied, where appropriate, by the taxing officer. The Belgian State is not entitled to procedural compensation when it is represented by an official. This is what the Constitutional Court decided on 21 May. It is therefore clear that the tax administration will have to pay more attention to the quality of its defence. In this respect, I wonder whether it is not false savings that are made by your administration and by the Belgian State. That's why I'm asking you, Minister. What is your assessment of the defence of tax litigation before courts and tribunals by tax officials, in particular in terms of the cost and effectiveness of combating fraud? In the light of the recent ruling of the Constitutional Court. In particular, is it not appropriate to review the current rules on enforcement? Is there any discussion within the FPS Finance on this subject? Are there any plans to ensure systematic representation of the State by an official in a judicial cell? Is it envisaged to use more systematically the services of lawyers for the heaviest cases? If so, within what time frame will procedural changes be implemented?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic220x.u99	Mr Gilkinet, since 2001, tax officials have been the effective representative of the State, as the rate of favourable judgements and judgments has remained the same as that obtained when tax cases were systematically assigned to lawyers. In addition, I am sure that the accountability of public servants has had a positive impact on the quality of taxation. With regard to the impact of the change in the jurisprudence of the Constitutional Court on the provisions of the procedural allowance when the State, represented by an official, succumbs, it will be necessary to await the position that that court will take with regard to the application for annulment of the Act of 25 April 2014. This provision provides for an additional exception, namely that no compensation is payable by the State, when a legal person governed by public law acts in the general interest as a party in a proceeding. Whether the official representing the State is the taxing official or the official of a judicial cell does not change the fact that the State's allowance is due if he or she succumbs and that the opposing party is represented by a lawyer. As a result, I do not see why the current instructions should be changed. Especially since nothing prevents the administration from entrusting to lawyers the most heavy files to resume your expression.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic220x.u100	I do not fully share the diagnosis of efficacy. I note that the success rate has remained the same. We should have an analysis by file type. I will ask you in writing about this. In this respect, I have the impression that these are false savings and that, in order to succeed in the most complex cases, the state should be less tiring to resort to legal professionals because this is not entirely the business of tax auditors.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic220x.u101	Minister, the administration applies various VAT rates when it comes to performance in relation to fuel oil tanks. A decision was taken in November 2000, a decision was taken in March 2003, and parliamentary questions have been asked on this since 2005. For the disposal or decommissioning of fuel oil tanks, the administration proposes a VAT rate of 21%. However, the Antwerp appeal court ruled in its judgment of 8 April 2014 that the removal of a fuel oil tank from a private house could be subject to the VAT rate of 6%, in so far as it concerns the renovation or repair of a property. Some intercommunals now rely on that judgment to apply the lower VAT rate of 6% over the whole line, even if the works are limited to purely neutralising a fuel oil tank. So far, the administration has not changed the official position, leaving a great deal of uncertainty about the VAT rate to be applied. Several cleaning companies are talking about unfair competition. Minister, what is the scope of the judgment on the determination of the VAT rates to be applied? Does the rate of 6 % apply only to renovation or is it more extensive? Can the administration clarify what its position is now? Is there unfair competition when certain intercommunals applying 6% for purely neutralization? If so, what steps will you take to correct that?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic220x.u102	Mrs Wouters, on 4 May 2015 I was informed by a cleaning company about the problems you mentioned. I immediately instructed my administration to look into this matter. My administration naturally accepts the consequences of the judgment to which you refer. The removal or decommissioning of fuel oil tanks may be eligible for the application of the reduced VAT rate of 6%, provided that it is shown that the operation fits into a whole of large real estate works on a dwelling. For the purposes of applying the reduced VAT rate of 6%, it is not important to install a new tank. It is important, however, to demonstrate that the removal or decommissioning of the fuel oil tank is accompanied by extensive real estate works which are the subject of the conversion, renovation, rehabilitation, improvement, repair or maintenance of the house in question. However, the mere removal or decommissioning of fuel oil tanks without large works remains a demolition work and is therefore, in principle, subject to the normal VAT rate. The new position is published through the tax documentation bank Fisconetplus. In order to eliminate the problem of unfair competition, my control services will ensure that the rules are also strictly observed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic220x.u103	Thank you, Minister, for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic220x.u104	Mr Minister, pursuant to Article 38, § 1, 12° of the WIB 92, the fees of volunteers from public fire brigades and volunteers from civil protection amounting to EUR 4 350 are exempted, namely the indexed amount for the 2016 tax year. According to Com.IB 92, No. 38/33.1 also for ambulance firefighters. In principle, the voluntary ambulances-non-firemen do not benefit from this exemption, although it can be argued that, in so far as they are covered by the law of 8 July 1964 on urgent medical assistance, they do not perform a service which is fundamentally different from the voluntary ambulance firemen. The College of the Prior Decisions Service decided in ruling No. On 24 December 2013, 556 of 24 December 2013 that the allowances granted to volunteers of a non-profit organisation providing specific services in the context of urgent medical assistance could be considered as exempt fees, as referred to in Article 38, § 1, 12° of the WIB 92. At the time of the formation of the area, the public fire brigades were transformed into relief zones. The question now is to what extent is Article 38, § 1, 12° of the WIB 92 applicable to the voluntary ambulance-non-firemen? Can you confirm that there is no tax difference between an ambulance firefighter and an ambulance non-firefighter, in so far as they belong to the operational personnel of a rescue zone? Are you prepared to follow the reasoning of the ruling and, where appropriate, extend the article in question to the allowances of volunteers of non-profit organisations who, through the uniform call system, namely the service 100-112, provide urgent medical assistance, as provided for in Article 1 of the Law of 8 July 1964?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic220x.u105	Mrs Wouters, the exemption provided for by you can also be applied to the allowances for voluntary ambulances and non-firemen, which are currently grouped into assisted areas, in so far as their activity is part of the urgent medical assistance.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic220x.u106	Minister, your answer is satisfactory. In this way, there is clarity for those concerned as to whether or not the exemption can be applied.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic220x.u107	Mr President, Minister, in recent months, I have addressed the issue of the tax on financial transactions on several occasions. We are convinced that this is an effective tool to be put in place at European level. I've already had an opportunity to talk about it before. I think it needs to be set up at European level. I have sometimes felt a little less enthusiasm in your leader, but this is an opportunity to talk about it again and to have your reaction. Recently, the press echoed the comments of your French counterpart in particular, who pointed out that the main principles will be agreed in July. I believe that the date of July 13 had been advanced at the time, with the aim of maintaining the objective of the implementation by January 1, 2016. The press referred to two scenarios that would be on the negotiating table. A broad version that would tax all shares, including foreign shares, and derivatives; and another version, less ambitious, that would apply only to shares issued within the 11 countries concerned by enhanced cooperation, with or without derivatives. This would certainly be a first step, but it is clear that the first version is more ambitious. Minister, what scenario are you defending with your counterparts? What is the current state of discussion? In this discussion, is there any mention of how much each scenario would generate and how much revenue would be allocated?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic220x.u108	Mr Daerden, negotiations on the introduction of a Financial Transaction Tax (FTT) began in 2013 between eleven European Member States including Belgium. As the work was stalled at the end of 2014, on 21 January 2015, the French and Austrian Finance Ministers asked the other nine participating ministers to re-start the negotiations. As a result, it was decided to make the negotiations on the TTF more formal and to entrust Austria with the chairmanship of the Working Group. The negotiations remain very difficult given the very divergent views on this tax and all the issues that need to be discussed in order to have a clear and precise decision. In accordance with the provisions of the Government Agreement, Belgium continues to work constructively towards the progressive introduction of a tax on financial transactions. The government continues to advocate for this tax, which focuses on speculative stocks and derivatives without affecting financial stability or affecting the liquidity of the real economy. In addition, a possible FTT may not apply to transactions carried out by pension funds and insurance companies or to public effects. The appropriateness of maintaining the stock exchange tax is examined in this context. The Belgian government has always declared and repeats that a possible FTT has to pay at least as much as the existing stock exchange tax (almost 200 million in recent years).
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic220x.u109	Minister, thank you for these few reminders and some clarifications. If I hear correctly, you are advocating a broad logic in terms of shares and derivatives. As for the perimeter of the eleven countries or beyond in terms of emissions, it is more blurred. Will this affect all shares, including foreigners, or only those issued by the eleven countries?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic220x.u110	Only shares issued by the eleven countries.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic220x.u111	Mr President, Minister, a few days ago we received a very interesting annual report from the FSMA. It talks about the pilot project with mystery shoppers who visited a number of banks, which produced striking results, but in a negative sense. At 43% there would be false or incomplete information. In 40% of the cases there would also have been an advice given that was contrary to the investor profile. However, banks have to make such a profile of their customers according to MiFID rules. I will not give detailed examples of this, but this is certainly an important information obligation, and this evaluation by the FSMA seriously questions the compliance of the banks. What will be the follow-up to this report, Minister? Will there be any action? How do you evaluate the extent to which the financial sector takes MiFID rules into account? I am referring to the first package, because the second one is still waiting for transposition. However, I do not think that we should wait for this to make the banks aware of what they are failing to do.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic220x.u112	Mr President, Mr Deseyn, the FSMA has carried out two inspection cycles in recent years to monitor compliance with MiFID rules. The second inspection cycle took place in 2014-2015 and related to the issue of duty of care. It is of this inspection cycle that the President of the FSMA has recently explained the results. In this context, the obligation of care means, inter alia, that banks must check the knowledge and experience of their clients and ensure that their product is in the interests of the customer. The inspections took place in both headquarters and agencies and covered 88 percent of the sector. During these inspections, the FSMA identified a total of 210 deficiencies, of which 106 gave rise to an order. These shortcomings and orders relate, inter alia, to too limited customer information collection, non-testing of a product in a sales transaction or only using standard profiles by the bank itself. In addition to the announced non-anonymous inspections, the FSMA carried out a pilot project with mystery shoppers last year. The FSMA called on an external service provider to do so. 201 mystery shopping visits took place in the offices of five banks and two scenarios were tested, i.e. that of a risk shadow and that of a risk-seeking investor. Firstly, with regard to the quoted mystery shopping figures, it should be pointed out that they are averages. Secondly, account must also be taken of the fact that the mystery shoppers never actually purchased a financial product. If this had been the case, the software used by the banks would have indicated in a number of cases that the intended product is not suitable for the client concerned. In other words, should a sale have actually been made, the percentages quoted might have been much lower. No additional measures are needed for the time being. Indeed, the banks concerned have never contested the findings of the FSMA inspections and have drawn up action plans to address the deficiencies within a given period of time. The implementation of these plans is strictly monitored by the FSMA, including through additional mystery shopping visits this year and next year. I would also like to refer to the Ombudsfin's annual report, which shows that the number of complaints concerning investment advice has fallen by two thirds over two years. In this context, Ombudsfin refers to the moratorium on the sale of overly complex structured products set up by the FSMA and to on-the-spot inspections, which are ultimately the subject of these inspections. Finally, the MiFID 2 Directive and the MiFIR Regulation were adopted in May 2014. The MiFIR Regulation is directly applicable in all Member States. As far as the MiFID 2 Directive is concerned, there is still a great deal of work to be done at European level on its implementing measures. These implementing measures may take the form of a Directive or a Regulation. On this basis, it is necessary to transpose it into national law or not. The entry into force of MiFID 2 and MiFIR is scheduled for 1 January 2017.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic220x.u113	Thank you, Minister, for this explanation. If rules are made, then the banks must of course follow them well. It is a sector under attack which has caused a lot of problems in recent years. We must admit that honestly. There are a lot of rules about checking the identity of customers. I am rather active in the area of identity fraud and I happen to have had contacts on this matter today. We note that the procedures in a number of banks are not being properly applied in this area, leading to major drama events, such as accounts opened with a copy of an identity card. As far as identity fraud is concerned, I therefore also call for the banks to follow the rules properly. You say there would have been an alert in case of a sale or a transaction. Then maybe the transaction was blocked. There is, of course, a very thin boundary between the pre-contractual and contractual phases. I suggest we offer the same guarantees. Already in the information phase one should be able to stop the transaction because one finds that it does not correspond to the customer's profile. It's bad that the client has to be convinced first. Only when he is convinced will the warning follow. Something in this order doesn't add up.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic220x.u114	Mr President, I am surprised that you did not put that question to me either. I did not put this question in a written question to give you the opportunity to take note of the state of play with me. My question is very simple: quid taxshift? What is your commitment to this Parliament? Your initial commitment to the tax shift was March. I remember very well that you answered a question from me in this committee that the first contours of the tax shift in March would be clear. Afterwards, the Prime Minister adjusted that until the summer. I've only seen an interview in De Tijd, in which you argued for a VAT increase. I'm assuming these weren't the contours of the tax shift. You said March. After that, the Prime Minister said the summer. Summer has come and we are in happy expectation. You are the one who says in other debates that there must be concrete proposals and that it must be done with statements in the media. I note that you yourself are suffering from what you accuse Syriza of in the negotiations with the euro area when it comes to the tax shift. You're also suffering from a Syrian complex. You talk about it, you don't respect deadlines and you push things out for you. I would like to invite you to land and at least inform us of the state of play of the negotiations. What are the contours in the meantime? For us, this should not essentially be a shift towards VAT, which seemed to be your focus at some point, but rather towards environmental pollution and capital gains. There is still a lot on the agenda in Parliament. If you make an agreement on the tax shift, as we hope, it goes without saying that we cannot do so without a parliamentary debate. To plan our holidays, it doesn't seem uninteresting to me to ask today. Even more important than our holiday plans is the prospect of a fair, efficient and green taxation to which our citizens and businesses are entitled.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic220x.u115	Mr Calvo, it is impossible to make comparisons that really trace, but your comparison is completely off the rails. The big difference between me and Syria is that I do not have to ask 18 countries for special conditions to survive as an independent state, which is indeed the case for Greece. I believe that there is a huge difference between the situation in which this government finds itself with the tax shift and the situation in Syria with regard to the rest of the euro area. I say this, of course, with all due respect to the Greek people and the election of Syriza by the Greek people. That comparison was nicely tried, but she doesn't make any sense. As far as the tax shift itself is concerned, I did indeed say that the first contours should be clear in March. In the meantime, I think it is well known that in the past period, finance has explored many scenarios, slopes and possibilities in all their facets. We have not only looked at what they cost and what they cost, but also what the impact of measure x, y or z is on the rest of the economy. Eventually such a tax shift is organized for reasons of fairness, but at least from the point of view of achieving a more efficient functioning of the economy. That report is finished and is now on the government table. She's being discussed within the government. That happens meticulously and very seriously. I note with you that there are no leaks on this. That should be mentioned, I believe. We are fully engaged in this discussion, which will take place in the coming weeks. As far as I am concerned, it is much more important to note that even with the coalition partners, in order to arrive at a good tax shift than a tax shift that has to comply with some kind of expiry date or time limit.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic220x.u116	Mr Calvo, is that an answer?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic220x.u117	No. Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I have already made a comparison with Syria and I will now make a comparison with Christian democracy. In the last three or four sentences, you're actually saying there's no longer a deadline.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic220x.u118	My only deadline is a good tax shift for the citizen and for the economy. That's my only deadline.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic220x.u119	In other words, and that is the news of the day, you said in March, Prime Minister Michel was talking about summer onions and today you say that there is no longer a deadline. Other things are being chased by Parliament here and you have decided in the coalition agreement. Budgetary control and the budget have all been possible. These are not mini-measures, but also matters with a significant impact. The question also had to be asked as to how fair it was for the economy and its efficiency. You did all that and today you say that there is no longer a deadline for the tax shift. It could be perfect that the government leaves on vacation without an agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic220x.u120	He didn't say that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic220x.u121	He said there's only one deadline, and that's a good tax shift. I understand the committee chairman's concern. If Minister Van Overtveldt says there is a deadline, now is the time to say so.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic220x.u122	I'm telling you. The deadline is a good tax shift.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic220x.u123	There is therefore no commitment from this government to reach an agreement on this matter before the summer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic220x.u124	That's what you say, not me.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic220x.u125	He didn't say that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic220x.u126	Mr President, Minister, either you say that there is a deadline and then it is time-bound. Either you say that there is no time-bound commitment and that the quality of the exercise is all that matters.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic220x.u127	So you clearly consider the latter less important.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic220x.u128	If you answer my question, I will answer yours. Is there any commitment to reaching an agreement before the summer? Yes or no?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic220x.u129	The Minister said that quality is more important than timing. A quality agreement may be reached before the summer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic220x.u130	I hear Mr Calvo say that timing is more important than content. I say the content is more important than the timing. We disagree in a friendly way.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic220x.u131	We totally disagree in a friendly way. We agree on that. You said in March that the Prime Minister said there would be an agreement before the summer. I didn't oblige you to say that. You have done so because you feel that we need to cut through on this for economic revival, for social and political stability. Today you say that the quality of the exercise is the most important thing for you. There is no commitment in this matter anymore. The CD&V colleagues say it's gonna be there before the summer. That's unbelievable.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic220x.u132	The summer lasts until 21 September. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic220x.u133	Next time you say the sun shines in the fall. We can also consider that a bit like summer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic220x.u134	Mr Calvo, you may be young, but you know that beautiful song. It's over again that beautiful summer, that beautiful summer that started just about in May... You've made your point. We are in a procedure of question, answer and reply, not of counter-questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic220x.u135	One more thing about quality or timing. Of course, quality is more important than timing. For me, the commitment of a government is also important. When it comes to quality, I might be able to outline our tax shift, which is sufficiently substantial and in the right direction. I said it earlier: for us, this means capital gains and environmental pollution.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic220x.u136	Minister, I will not ask the whole question, as I said in writing. I would also like to receive your reply in writing. Over the last few weeks and months, we have often had discussions in the Chamber about making corporate taxes fair and fair, including in the context of the European Union, and the alignment of a number of taxes in Europe, including corporate taxes, in order to avoid shopping between the different European Member States. The demand for more corporate tax coordination at EU level and more fairness is raised by several parties in Parliament. That is why I think it is important to explain to the committee what is going on at European level. It is a very important issue with regard to the impact for the different Member States. It should not be underestimated what work is now being done on the European corporate tax base. We need to look at this and make our contribution. I also assume that this is done from the Eurogroup. That is why I asked a question about the impact of the Belgian measures on corporate taxation and the reform of taxation. What are the possible repercussions of this on the work currently being done at European level on the common corporate tax base? In the meantime, can we make any changes to our corporate tax? To what extent are we bound by work at EU level? What is Belgium's position on the European fora on the Common Consolidated Corporate Tax Base? To what extent does Belgium contribute to the work done there? Are we or are we not limited in what we can do about corporate tax measures?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic220x.u137	I'll give you the answer, but I'll make further comments. Luxembourg has been President of the European Union since 1 July 2015. The Luxembourg Presidency has put forward the deepening of monetary union and the whole fiscal debate as two main objectives for its six-month presidency. So you are absolutely right. That is in the shadow of the talks with Greece today. In Ecofin, where the 28 Member States are present, this is a discussion that continues every meeting. There is a great deal of discussion between the large and small countries. I'm schematicing now, because it's much more complex. I assume that we will be able to go into the details in the coming weeks and months through all kinds of questions. The large countries argue that it should all be poured into a tight carcan, both the taxable base and the rates. The smaller countries, like our country, are more reluctant to do so. We absolutely want as much transparency as possible. Hence the initiative to proactively exchange rulings. There must be the greatest possible consensus and uniformity as to the definition of the taxable base. On the basis of which principles and alignment are the company tax applied? The whole discussion is slightly nuanced in terms of tariffs. If everything is harmonised in terms of taxation, it is very likely that companies will systematically opt for larger countries for the simple reason that these large countries are larger markets and offer inherent benefits in this respect that small countries do not have. It is therefore logical that there is pressure from the large countries to go in this direction. Small countries prefer to maintain a certain degree of autonomy, all the more so because we are in monetary union. A monetary union means that interest rates are no longer controlled. As the word dictates, these are laid down by the ECB. As far as intra-European trade is concerned, it is no longer possible to devalue. Therefore, if we go back to total fiscal harmonisation, some economic policy instruments will no longer be usable. This raises the question of what to do when the economy gets into trouble. What instruments can we draw from? Those are the broad outlines of the discussion. There will be a new Ecofin at the beginning of next week. I am curious to see how the Luxembourg Presidency will deal with these issues and their various aspects.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic220x.u138	I have another question about the timing and the procedure that has been drawn up for this. Maybe that's what the written answer says. Do we have the ambition to land by a specific moment?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic220x.u139	In any case, it is the committee's intention to be ready by the end of next year at the latest. There will be some discussions about this, including in the light of the elements I have just mentioned.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic220x.u140	I propose that one more question be asked and that the other questions be converted into written questions?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic220x.u141	Mr President, next time, let us know sooner! I would like to turn my two questions into written questions. We've got to get organized!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic220x.u142	I've only known for 10 minutes!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic220x.u143	I thought you knew that for a longer time.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic220x.u144	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic220x.u145	Mr Minister, if you could give me the answer, I would like to talk about a few points later.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic220x.u146	Mr President, I would like to postpone all my questions. One question did not come across from the previous committee meeting, Question No 5526 on information on financial accounts. I'll let him take part in the transfer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic220x.u147	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Van Cauter's 5553 will be converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Wouters' 5494 will be converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Wouters' 5495 will be converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Gilkinet's 5490 was converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Gilkinet's 5626 question was converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Deseyn's 5526 will be converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Deseyn's 5527 question was converted into a written question.
