ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip040x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip040x.u2	The general discussion has resumed. The general discussion was resumed. A number of speakers would like to address Minister De Block. I give the floor to Mr. Daerden.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip040x.u3	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, as a whole you will have understood, the legislation before us is inconceivable to us! He understands the index jump that we talked about yesterday, and for which the main argument put forward by the MR/N-VA government is competitiveness. For him, a wage-related competitiveness problem would exist in Belgium. In his view, the latter justified violent attacks against workers, pensioners and social beneficiaries. I will not repeat the demonstration, but the truth is quite different from your assertions about the so-called competitiveness deficit. Indeed, in 2016, Belgium will experience an inverse wage gap of about 0.3%. If the index jump is added, this inverted difference is greater than 2%. That is the truth, and my colleague Eric Massin demonstrated it to you yesterday. You are attacking not only the workers, but also the social beneficiaries and pensioners. You cover all social benefits and even family allowances. This refusal by the federal government to assume its responsibilities will lead to distortions. My colleague Fonck has talked about this at length and has also demonstrated it. Let's be clear, the wellness envelope doesn't compensate for index jumping. You don't have to mix pears and apples, and I'll come back to that envelope in a moment. I repeat, the policies that draw wages down are counterproductive: they undermine the purchasing power of our citizens, and hence consumption and sustainable growth. They are economically absurd and, above all, socially unjust. They create poverty, while it is necessary for Belgium and Europe to fight it. We do not want Belgium to be the driving force behind this anti-social policy. For years now, the European Commission has been advocating through its recommendations a loosening of our wage-setting system. Your choice is dictated by Europe and seeks to seduce the Commission. I am referring to this Europe which does not provide a satisfactory response in terms of solidarity, social policy or the fight against dumping and the posting of workers, when this is where the real wage gap is located and where the problems of competitiveness lie. If the argument behind the index jump is the creation of jobs induced by this competitiveness, on the one hand, I doubt the figures of 30 000 jobs created without obligation; on the other hand, I would like to point out that the Planning Bureau, at the hearings in committee, clearly stated that a targeted reduction in social contributions was more effective in this area. Colleagues, by sacrificing the purchasing power of workers, the government takes the responsibility of creating a lasting conflict in this country, preventing the restoration of social peace. It must be said and repeated: by imposing an index leap, the government merely perverts and amends existing collective agreements and social agreements, thus flouting the freedom of association, the freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining guaranteed at national and supranational level. Recognize this: there are other ways to achieve the objectives of job creation and competitiveness; less infringing alternatives to freedom of negotiation, wages, pensions and social benefits. But this ideological government does not want to hear it. We have to stop blaming the workers, who have already made enough effort, by telling them that it is the fault of their wages if their company goes wrong. For many companies, the competitiveness problem is linked to the costs of energy and raw materials, which in many sectors are significantly higher than the share of wages. These elements as well as investment, innovation and training are more significant issues. However, the government decides to suspend the implementation of the pension effort. When we know how much training efforts contribute to increasing the competitiveness of our enterprises, we question the usefulness of this measure. This index jump, to conclude with this first important theme, has no meaning either economically or socially. It leads to regression in all respects. It also feeds the anger of the population, who, struck by the crisis, face many difficulties on a daily basis. I was talking to you a moment ago about the risk of increased poverty. This measure is just a symbol for you, a totem. It is absolutely necessary to change your shoulder rifle and work, finally, on what is right and useful to the general interest. Having said that, we must stress that the text has some social progress that we support. Thus, it has the merit of implementing the agreement of the social partners on the distribution of the welfare envelope. We would like to welcome the work done by the social partners here, and we are pleased that this time the government decides to implement it. For, as we now know, with this majority, it is not always obvious! We can only note that the distribution of the welfare envelope has not been designed to fill the effects of the index jump and because of this, the social beneficiaries should have benefited both from the indexation, their allowances and the distribution of the welfare envelope. It is not the 127 million originally planned, then to be removed – today, I don't know what's going on – that would have compensated for this loss. With regard to this point, it is also more than regrettable that the government did not, contrary to what it claimed and what had been decided by the previous government, grant 100% of the welfare envelope. In fact, the government has decided to amend the law so that the welfare envelope will be planed, by 2018, by more than 300 million euros. The Government has tried to justify this change by transferring family allowances to the Communities. However, this justification is not defensible from the moment this welfare package has never increased family allowances, especially since the Special Financing Act explicitly states that the transfer of family allowances has no effect on the amount of the above-mentioned envelope. We are therefore faced with a decrease in the amount of this envelope, when the previous government had decided to grant 100% of it in the coming years. Finally, the draft law under consideration contains technical provisions on the harmonization of workers-employee status. As a reminder, following a ruling of the Constitutional Court, the procedures for harmonizing the status of worker and employee were to be decided by July 2013 on two points: the period of notice and the day on which workers defaulted. The social partners have managed to reach agreement on these two points, on the basis of a text presented by government conciliators. Thus, the agreement provided for the abolition of the waiting day on 1 January 2014. For employers, compensation was granted in the form of an increase in the structural reduction of social contributions. It was a balanced agreement. Workers benefited from the abolition of the waiting day and employers from a reduction in burdens. Today, the government wants to delete the reference to the day of default in the law, which is very good, but it also wants to rewrite the agreement of the social partners on the grounds, if I believe the Minister's statements in committee, that the agreement is more favourable to workers. Despite the change, it remains. Once again, we have the testimony of what social consultation is for this government. We have already seen how it has perverted the partners' agreement on pre-pensions. Here, he does not hesitate to amend an agreement already implemented. In fact, the government is now providing a new compensation for employers, which is to reduce the annual holiday contribution. To this end, it is planned to allocate alternative financing to the National Office for Annual Holidays (ONVA), which will allow it to reduce its contributions. While retaining the compensatory advantage previously granted, employers are thus doubly successful: once through the reduction of structural contributions and once again through the reduction of annual holiday contributions. This is done again to the detriment of the social security budget because this new gift to employers, at a time when the government wants to make workers pay by imposing on them the disguised tax of index jump, will cost 40 million euros. On the other hand, we still see nothing coming on the other aspects of the harmonization of the statutes. What is the situation with regard to the economic unemployment of employees, guaranteed wages and holiday pay? As you will understand, the PS Group, as a constructive force, supports the few positive provisions of the project. He will propose amendments in order to preserve the purchasing power of our citizens and to guarantee our model of social concertation, which this government has largely abused, but he will oppose index jumps and other attacks against workers, pensioners, beneficiaries and the social partners.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip040x.u4	Are there any other speakers who would like to address Minister De Block? If that is not the case, the government has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip040x.u5	Mr President, I should like to apologize for my absence from yesterday's sitting. I was present at the European Council on Public Health in Riga. I would like to thank Mr Daerden for his speech. With regard to the deviation from the social agreement on the abolition of the Care Day and the way in which it would be compensated, I believe that the government has taken a wise decision. On the contrary, it wants to make arrangements so that the manual workers do not receive a more unfavourable arrangement than the servants. With what was originally suggested in the social agreement, compensation for manual workers would be less large. That is why we have now introduced this scheme through the holiday allowances, which gives an additional benefit to manual workers. So if we deviate from the social agreement, then we do not just do so to deviate from the social agreement, but we do so with an aim. The aim is to do what had to be done, in particular to compensate for the costs of the Care Day. Mr Daerden, we have the same objective. We want to ensure that the fight against poverty can be fought through compensation. Our aim is the same, but we differ somewhat from the view that the difference is more ideological and cannot be resolved here................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... You only want to do that by increasing benefits even more. The other thing you are saying is that it is not because of this wealth envelope that the index jump is compensated. However, we have already distributed this wealth envelope here, even if it is uncertain that there will be an index adjustment this year. The months in which the welfare envelope will start already, the doubling of it next year and the increase in the sum to EUR 1.2 billion in the coming years will thus benefit the people who have the most problems.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip040x.u6	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Now it's time for the replies.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip040x.u7	Madam Minister, I think you have said the essential thing. There is a major divergence from an ideological point of view. This has been confirmed in committee and is now being confirmed. I will not go back to all the points. It's no use. As far as the wellness envelope is concerned, we have said it and we repeat it. We mix two different things, on the one hand, the well-being envelope that was an acquired to increase the purchasing power of all social recipients and, on the other hand, the index jump that is something else. We mix a necessary complement logic with something that has become a compensation for you. There is really a logic of distortion in relation to what was the spirit of this well-being envelope. Finally, when you say that you favor the climate, I wonder what climate when you see what is happening in the streets, especially on a day of strike!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip040x.u8	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip040x.u9	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (960/7) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (960/7) The draft law has 20 articles. The bill has 20 clauses. ******
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip040x.u10	• 56 - Marco Van Hees cs (960/8) • 83 - Catherine Fonck (960/10)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip040x.u11	• 55 - Marco Van Hees cs (960/8) • 58 - Frédéric Daerden cs (960/8)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip040x.u12	• 56 - Marco Van Hees cs (960/8) • 83 - Catherine Fonck (960/10)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip040x.u13	• 56 - Marco Van Hees cs (960/8)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip040x.u14	• 56 - Marco Van Hees cs (960/8)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip040x.u15	• 56 - Marco Van Hees cs (960/8)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip040x.u16	• 56 - Marco Van Hees cs (960/8)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip040x.u17	• 56 - Marco Van Hees cs (960/8)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip040x.u18	• 56 - Marco Van Hees cs (960/8)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip040x.u19	Annex V.Part 2.124 • 56 - Marco Van Hees cs (960/8) ****** The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and articles that have been tabled and on the whole will take place later. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and the reserved articles as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. ****** Decision of the article-by-article discussion:
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip040x.u20	Sustained: the vote on the amendments and Rules 2 to 20. Article adopted by article: Article 1.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip040x.u21	******
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip040x.u22	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteurs are Ms Wilmès, Mrs Van Cauter and Mr Piedboeuf.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip040x.u23	Mr President, I refer to my written report. If I may, I would like to take the floor briefly for my group, unless one of the other rapporteurs asks to speak.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip040x.u24	You have the floor, Mrs Van Cauter.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip040x.u25	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Justice is a foundation of our democratic model, including for our group. This means, on the one hand, that justice should be able to detect, prosecute and ensure appropriate punishment when crimes occur. On the other hand, when a judge is involved in a dispute, they must be able to refer that dispute to the court and expect and expect a qualitative decision within a socially acceptable time limit. I think it is the firm will of this government to make justice accessible to every Belgian. Keeping justice accessible to all requires not only simplification, but also a reform of role rights. Even if it was a difficult exercise, my group will support this draft. This draft, which took into account the cost of legal proceedings and the principles of proportionality and legality, reform and simplify role rights, precisely in order to ensure the necessary access to justice for every seeker, without prejudice to the existing correction mechanisms for socially or financially weaker judges, to whom it guarantees that they can still rely on justice. Our group will therefore support the draft.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip040x.u26	Thank you, Mrs Van Cauter. Ladies and gentlemen, the rapporteurs have referred to the written report. Mrs Van Cauter has just spoken on behalf of her group. If I may, for personal reasons and exceptional reasons, I would first like to give the floor to Mr Van Hecke. Then we will follow the normal order of the speakers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip040x.u27	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have had a very interesting discussion in committee. The draft was dealt with exceptionally in the Finance Committee, although it was mainly concerned with justice. It is therefore a question of taxation. There were many colleagues from the Committee on Justice. I think that the report is quite comprehensive and detailed and that the points of pain were well put forward. I will try to be brief. With the text, there are five more bottlenecks. Firstly, an important bottleneck is, of course, the criticism of the Council of State that was originally formulated about the text. Originally, the text would have been inserted as an amendment in the programme law in December. The Government's argument to justify the increase in registry duties did not find much support from the Council of State. That argument was that when it comes to important matters, the people who seek justice are wealthy. The Council of State has clearly stated that that link cannot be made. Persons with relatively modest assets may also have a claim that may rise high. So you can't make that link automatically. The government then made a slight change. The system has been maintained, but a different argument has been put forward, in particular: the higher the claim, the more work and the more costs there are for Justice. However, that link cannot be hardened either. After all, there are things that have no high value, but can be very complex and can bring a great deal of work for the judges. Think, for example, of a complex matter of inheritance service or of a commercial lease. So you can't make that link either. Secondly, the main danger of the reform is that there is access to justice. I think it is everyone's concern that access to justice should be guaranteed. The government will, of course, say that access will remain guaranteed, but I would like to mention a series of measures taken in the past, which, together with the proposed measures, will ensure that the threshold is ever higher. A few years ago, we had the higher judicial fees, the costs to be paid by the losing party. We had the VAT on wages in the previous legislature. The current Minister of Justice was then Minister of Finance and then introduced it. So, Mr Nonees, you already have a certain reputation for the cost of litigation. In 2012, there was a 15% increase in registration fees and now there is a further increase. That's how the account gets up in the long run. Who will be affected by that? That will not be the large companies and multinationals that can employ lawyers and deduct them as operating costs and recover VAT. Nor are they low-income persons who, through the second-line assistance, can rely on a lawyer and are often also exempted from a number of court fees. Those affected belong to the category in between: judges who earn too much to be able to rely on second-line assistance, but who are also not insured and who cannot recover VAT. It's actually about ordinary families, people who might go through a lawsuit once, twice or three times in their lives, not the multiplayers, but the ordinary people. They have to pay VAT and are often not insured, unless it concerns a traffic accident or something covered by family insurance. The fear is that those seeking justice, even though they are right and even though they have a great chance of winning a case, still doubt whether they will go to court. Why? I think that any colleague who is a lawyer will be able to confirm this from the point of view of practice: when looking for a lawyer, they immediately ask how much a case could cost them in the worst case. It is then necessary to explain, among other things, the costs of proceedings, the costs of subpoenas, registration costs and the judicial fees. If expertise is needed, the costs of expertise may also be borne by them. In addition, they have to pay their attorney's fees, with VAT, and all the costs if they lose the case. Then clients will consider whether it is worth bringing a case of EUR 1 000 or EUR 2 000 if they can lose and pay more costs than the use of the dispute? They will then decide, even if they are right, even if they have a great chance of getting their rights, not to bring a case. It may be argued that alternative methods of dispute resolution should be provided. That's true, we have to bet on it, and so does the government. This is important, but we must not underestimate the cost to an ordinary citizen today to initiate a procedure. This draft law will raise that threshold even further, not only by increasing registration fees, but also by increasing registration fees, and this is my third fundamental remark, by the fact that registration fees are now charged per requesting party and not per case. Let us take a simple example. In a simple rental business, a married couple as a requesting party will have to pay role rights twice. In a legacy with several brothers or sisters, each as a claim party will have to pay role rights. If an appeal is filed, the role rights must also be paid. That raises the bill. There is an argument that is actually a fallacy. We all know what the intention of the legislation is. The budget says that you must recover EUR 20 million. That amounts to more revenue from registration fees. One has started to count and the taxes on the registration of a case start to increase to reach EUR 20 million. It is said that several demanding parties increase complexity and that means more work in court. This may of course be the case in some cases, but in many cases there will not be much more work if a couple engages in a rental dispute or an owner. The lake work is limited to two lines. The applicant parties will be required to be given a second name by the Registrar. That's pretty much the only more work one has to do. Legally, that doesn't make much difference. I shall now turn to a fourth point. The tax is fixed at the beginning and is final. The Council of State also made comments on this point. It is a question of tax legislation and taxpayers themselves must decide which tax is to be paid. The value of the matter must be assessed on its own merits. According to the estimate, the registration fee is determined. People can be too bad faith, but we assume that this will only be a very small minority. However, there are also issues where the final value of the case cannot be estimated at the beginning. Let us take an accident with physical damage. An accident can lead to a procedure, for example, following a medical error. Will it lead to permanent incapacity for work, with an impact on earning capacity or with loss of income? This can often not be estimated at the beginning of the procedure. The accident may result in a flat-rate compensation of EUR 10 000 for material and moral damage, but may as well lead to a million-dollar claim. One cannot judge that from the beginning. In spite of that remark made by the Council of State, the Government did not accept the proposal to amend this point in order to allow for a review during the procedure or at the end, when the final amount of damage is fixed. A fifth point concerns the right of transition, ladies and gentlemen. The majority will, of course, try to ensure that this legislation is applied as quickly as possible, because, of course, revenue will come much faster if necessary. Mr Minister of Finance, in the other case, the EUR 20 million for 2015 is no longer correct. You understand me very well. However, this also has an impact on current cases. I mean, court cases in progress. Anyone who is already at first instance in court today and who will appeal because he loses will be faced with those higher registry rights. I'm giving a very extreme case. Take a situation where several people have merged, to start one case, before the law on the class action for example. There are a hundred people who want to conduct one procedure together. They paid one roll right. When there is a ruling and they want to appeal and they are covered by the new regime, they will have to pay the right of roll 100 times in appeal. Of course, that's very heavy. In such cases, the amounts could be relatively small. Therefore, it is unfair and unfair that such tax legislation should be introduced and applied to ongoing legal proceedings. That is why we tabled an amendment in committee proposing that the new regulation should be applied only to new procedures initiated at first instance in order to avoid this problem. The amendment has also been tabled again here in plenary. However, ladies and gentlemen, the majority of us have not heard of this either. I'll finish here. I have made five fundamental comments on the project. The most important thing is the danger that today's measures against past measures will make access to justice more difficult. However, access to justice is truly fundamental. It is guaranteed in an international text and also accepted as a general principle of law by the Constitutional Court. So, please, let us not forget that. What we must not do is put an incredible brake on it. In the end, the draft law aims to get EUR 20 million extra in the cash. However, the effects it can have on the ground can be very difficult for certain categories of our population. We would like to warn against this. That is why we do not agree with the draft law and will not support it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip040x.u28	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, my group will support the reform of the role rights. We believe that this reform is a modernisation and that it is done with respect for access to justice. Role rights are thus compared with the operating costs of the case-law and will henceforth be determined according to the value of the claim. In our view, this is an objective criterion, which is also used in other countries, such as Denmark, Germany, Italy and so on. We must also take account of the increasing number of advances. The seeker must be responsive in a certain way and consideration should be given to whether it is necessary to have a dispute resolved before the court. Moreover, even after the reform, the costs of registry fees in Belgium will still be reasonable compared to the countries around us. For example, the right to roll for an action brought before the civil court of first instance in Germany is 438 euros, in the Netherlands 876 euros. In Belgium that will be 100 euros. Finally, it should be stressed that this reform should not always involve an increase in entry fees. For example, a claim before the family court will now have to be paid for only once, i.e. EUR 100, whereas in the past several procedures had to be paid for each roll-over right. Also for cases in the peace court, i.e. cases of less than EUR 2 500, the right to roll remains EUR 40. For cases before other courts, the value of which is less than EUR 2 500, the role rights also remain unchanged. I can therefore conclude that we will support this reform because it does not affect any access to justice and that, even if the role rights are increased, it will still be cheaper in Belgium than in neighbouring countries.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip040x.u29	Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that we will not support this draft. We have tabled an amendment which is fundamental. We do not support this draft for four reasons and are supported in it by the Council of State and Test Purchasing. I am going to go over the reasons very quickly, because the discussion was already taking place in committee. The first and most important reason is, of course, that it is an increase. It can be said, according to the argument of the majority, that the costs remain even lower than in the neighbouring countries, but in any case the Council of State is talking about a substantial increase. Any increase, of course, also raises the threshold to justice, which you cannot deny. The second reason is access in general. On this point, the Council of State states that this was assessed in the light of the right of access to justice and the principle of equality and non-discrimination. The evaluation for the Council of State was always very negative. I quote the Council of State: 'The right of access to justice could be compromised by the fact that a person with a weaker capacity has to pay a higher right.' Certainly the latter is fundamental to us, because it means that someone with a smaller capacity in the future could consider not going to court because it would cost him too much. The Council of State is also very clear about the principle of equality and non-discrimination. The Council of State says that the workload involved in dealing with a case and the degree of difficulty of the case cannot depend on the financial valuation of the claim. He therefore concluded that the draft law did not pass the test on the principle of equality and non-discrimination. These two fundamental comments made by the Council of State are essential when it comes to accessibility. I come to my third point. Test-Purchasing speaks of the stroke of grace for access to justice. It particularly highlights the problem of the law on group claims, to which a small adjustment has been made afterwards, for which, thank you, Minister Geens. However, there is still a problem. We are very pleased with the amendment, because at first reading Minister Van Overtveldt said: "As far as the action for collective recovery is concerned, the law clearly states that each plaintiff must pay rights. The law does not provide for any derogation or specific rule for a collective action. We think it is very positive that the Finance and Justice Ministers have given an answer to the note from the Legal Service: "There is only one role right due by the representative of the requesting parties. In fact, not all parties are known at the time of the introduction of the class action. I would like to clarify our amendment, which we have retabled. With the amendment, we want to translate the positive response given by the ministers into the draft law so that the role rights are due per case and not per plaintiff. In addition to group claims or class actions, there are still cases where this adjustment could cause a problem. The people who work in court and the many lawyers among you will be able to list many more examples than I do. There are, after all, a number of procedures today in which several claimants with the same damage have brought a joint action, but which are not currently covered by the joint action. It would be totally unfair for them to have to pay separately. Another example is the case where the plaintiffs have made the choice of residence with their lawyer. Even then, the costs are much less high. It would be totally unfair to have the role rights paid separately each time. Another example has just been mentioned by a colleague: for a couple who is dominated at the same address, the costs are also minimal and it would be totally unfair to pay double roll rights each time. Ladies and gentlemen, we fundamentally disagree with this draft, especially as it will in any case raise the threshold of access to justice and introduce a certain form of arbitrariness. Since both ministers have stated that they want to correct a number of issues in connection with this group action, we are convinced that the majority will support our amendment. This is only correcting what the two ministers themselves have said.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip040x.u30	Mr President, ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I am a lawyer. I was a lawyer. I knew and practiced registry fees. I will not repeat the comments of previous speakers. I would just like to make three observations on the procedure: the parliamentary procedure, the judicial procedure and the budgetary procedure. As far as the legislative procedure is concerned, the bill we are discussing today has been tabled by the Minister of Finance. It was discussed in the Finance Committee. It is discussed in particular in the presence of the Minister of Finance; the Minister of Justice is also fortunately there. We want to talk about access to justice and we're talking about finance! The gap could not be greater between social logic and financial logic. In any case, we have chosen our side. The legislative procedure but also the judicial procedure, because that is what this is all about. What is the proposed system? It will of course close the door of our courthouses, whether we like it or not, to a number of people who will be affected by an increase in registry fees. The low-income litigant will have to pay costs proportional to the claim he is making, whereas these costs could be very high, as for example as a result of a procedure for compensation for personal injury. The proposed system is also a complicated, horrendously complicated system, in that it requires the court to assess the amount of registry fees it will have to pay. I would remind you that I can take legal action without being assisted by counsel, and in this case I have to do it myself. The proposed system is an unfair one. It moves from a case-by-case flat-rate system to a proportional and individualised system, which will lead, where there are several parties to the case, to multiply the fees collected, for example in the case of co-ownership. I see, as I say, the boon effect for state funds, but will justice be better done? Basically, as we have just said, the proposed system has only one merit: that of unifying registry rights when the dispute is brought before the family court. That was the purpose of the law. My third point concerns the budgetary procedure. Mr. Minister of Justice, if at least the revenues provided were to ensure a better service to justice! If this would make it possible to close the gaps in your budget, to recruit staff, to ensure a better computerization of the files, to renovate the premises and to ensure the sustainability of the legal aid service! I hear a few tremolos about that. However, as we know, the resources provided will feed the common fund and will be used to cover the general and undifferentiated needs of the Belgian State and its citizens. Poor justice, in every sense of the word! These are my criticisms of parliamentary, judicial and budgetary procedures on the ground. It goes without saying that these criticisms will not allow us to acquiesce in the planned reform. The shape and the background really don't suit us.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip040x.u31	Mr President, I hear each other's arguments well. You will allow me to introduce the MR group on the side of those who defend this bill. We believe that it has the merit of simplifying and modernizing registry fees by maintaining access to justice for everyone. Simplification is quite easy to understand. For all roles, there will be a single tariff per jurisdiction and per proceeding. This will facilitate the processing of cases. Subsequently, the increase in registry fees, which will be adapted to make them proportionate to the action and the alleged cost of the judiciary, is based on the principle of proportionality. At the end of the day, we do not deviate so much from already well-accepted practices, particularly in terms of procedural allowances. Unfortunately, it can only be seen that more and more litigants are moving towards the courts and thus engulfing them. One cannot denounce a mechanics which is installed and which is Americanized, complaining of a congestion sometimes for little thing, without trying to manage it with the possible invitation to resort to softer formulas, to less expensive alternative modes. Moreover, for our group, the fundamental right to access to justice is always protected through assistance to the people who are still in need. We also underline the progress made in paying only a right of rebuttal for family cases brought before the family court. In addition, current exemptions, often dictated by social reasons, remain almost unchanged. Only labour and tax disputes of more than 250 000 euros will now be subject to registry fees. In short, on the basis of the case law of the European Court of Human Rights, the draft law is consistent with the principle of legitimacy and proportionality, does not compromise the principle of the right of access to justice at all and is consistent with the principle of equality and non-discrimination. Above all, after analysing the tariffs, we obviously find that our tariffs are still far below those in neighbouring countries. These are the reasons, Mr. Chairman, why the MR Group will support this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip040x.u32	Mr President, please excuse my delay, but the Rue de la Loi was blocked. We should make the neutral zone more accessible to Members of Parliament. We have had the discussion in committee and I have been briefed on the amendments and the proposals that have been tabled. Also for CD&V access to the law is an essential point. I know that the opposition has argued that access will be made more difficult by increasing the role rights and she spoke of an infringement of Article 6 of the ECHR. However, I would like to repeat that it is clear that access to justice will be protected for everyone and that, of course, the economically and socially weaker in society will still be able to make good use of the system of legal assistance. The fact that these persons can also obtain a partial or total exemption from the payment of roles and other judicial fees if they can prove that their income is insufficient is a very important comment in this debate. Of course, there are always people who are at risk of falling out of the safety net, but we must put that in the discussion about the right to roll and the explicit link made with the value of the claim. It is not only a link with the use of the case, but also with the financial capacity of the seeker. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to stress the importance of European harmonisation in the field of tariff policy. The Belgian rates were quite low. If we line these tariffs and link them to the value of the claim, we will have a European harmonization policy. We must not make abstraction of the practice either. There is also a distribution of role rights in procedures that are currently being carried out and where there is some possibility of being unsuccessful. Another tricky point was that there should be paid per claim party. Some argue that this provision should be deleted. As a general rule, in Belgium, we only work with individual interests to bring a case before a court, some exceptions not to be discussed, and in general this is consistent with the procedure contained in the Court's Code. The exception to the collective claims procedure, and I know that the discussioner has taken a long time in committee on this matter, must therefore be seen as an exception to the current reform of registry rights. With regard to the right to roll based on the value of the claim, some say that there is no direct link between the value of the claim and the financial standing of the claimant. However, the criterion of the value of the claim is not new in the legal system. This does not suddenly lead to a fundamentally different course. This criterion is already being used, for example, to see whether or not the justice of the peace can be taken into account in a dispute. We have also made it abundantly clear that this is also important for the level of the justice fee. The initial claim must be based on a correct value because it has precise implications for the justice fee. The plaintiffs and their lawyers benefit from making the most accurate estimate possible. I know that there has also been discussion about the adjustment of the value of the claim and any administrative set-off. This system was not explicitly chosen even though there are good arguments for it. If we want to reduce the administrative burden, knowing that there is a limited capacity for clerks and magistrates, there is no point in introducing a number of back-up mechanisms into the system which cannot generate additional output. As far as the pro-fissoration is concerned, I can be clear. If there is no pro-fissoration, the instrument shall not be deposited validly and the time limits shall not be interrupted. If there is a pro-fissoration, but no valid payment of the roll right, there is a valid deposit, but no registration on the roll. In this respect, I believe that there is a coherent and coherent system. Aposteriori control of the value of the claim could be qualified as a justified criticism. In committee, however, I have already said that the system as it currently stands is a change, but not a final change and that it will not become the system of the future either. In my view, we should move towards a system of flat-rate payments according to the level at which the procedure is initiated, which would reduce many administrative burdens and calculations. This really is a forward-looking system and is being worked on by the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip040x.u33	Mr President, ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking because I am a member of the Finance Committee and it is in this committee that the bill has been introduced for this reason, both fairly simple and rather strange that the registry fees are included in the tax legislation, but that, strictly speaking, what we are dealing with here is the way in which the government sees the organisation of justice. However, since it is a tax, a royalty or a tax, I will speak for the PS Group. That is why I will return not only to certain aspects related to the organisation of justice, but also to this rather strange way in the head of government to address this tax, the fee of registry fees. The heart of your bill is therefore to link the setting of registry fees to the value of the application. We explained to you in the Finance Committee, without convincing answers, that it was rather strange to consider that, in the face of requests of a different financial nature, the person could be asked to discharge a different right, as if in the end there was a relationship between the financial capacity of the litigants who, in the head of government, become more and more taxpayers, and the value of the dispute or the importance of the dispute. We have told you that one can very well be of modest condition or belong to the middle class and, at some point in life, be confronted with a dispute whose value, the importance of which could amount to hundreds of thousands or millions of euros. There have been medical mistakes, misconceptions in construction... In short, no one is immune to a dispute that can quickly be estimated in hundreds of thousands of euros. This does not mean that your financial capacity is greater than that of a person who, in one way or another, would naturally be concerned only with major disputes. No, one can be of modest condition, of the middle class and, in his life, be confronted with a judicial problem whose value can be very important. Of course, you do not take this into account because you feel – this is reflected in the explanations you have given us – that, in general, there is a link between the financial capacity of the litigant and the value of the litigation. We have shown you that this is not the case. That is why we believe that your bill is inconclusive. The Council of State has issued a murderous opinion on the latter. He believes that in establishing this correlation, you do not respect the principle of equal access to justice and equality, and that this could potentially lead to appeals to the Constitutional Court on the basis of the violation of articles 10 et seq. of the Constitution. We therefore draw your attention to the fact that your bill has a legal frailty affirmed and confirmed by the Council of State. Before I go back to more fundamental considerations on access to justice, I would like to dwell for a moment on the second point on the very strange way of dealing with things. You were also not convincing when you were asked what could happen if, during the course of the trial, there was a difference in the assessment of the value of the dispute. In other words, we asked you what would happen if, after the lawyer of a litigant brought the case, he himself assessed the value of the dispute and obtained a fixation of the rights of registry on that basis, a divergence in the assessment of the dispute had to arise, following an expert report for example. You have answered this question in a vague way by informing us that things will be dealt with in circular form. Definitely, settling things through this bay becomes a habit of this government. Perhaps you will one day call upon the special powers. You never know! Still, it is not permissible to introduce a bill that contains as much room for uncertainty as to how to deal with the difficulties caused by the bill itself. Third point: the subjective dimension of the taxable base or the base of the registry fee is reached. It is rather strange that, in tax matters, the height of the tax base and the tax base depends on the subjective assessment of the taxpayer. This is a relatively exceptional procedure. Statements of inheritance rights, or even registration rights, were mentioned; if only in the area of registration rights, there was at least the market value, the points of comparison on the value of a real estate. There are objectivation elements with the intervention of the receiver of the record. In inheritance rights, it's the same thing. The recipient of the registration may immediately state that he or she does not agree with the assessment. It has expertise and can be based on databases. So we're in a different context. Here, it's different. The justiciable-payer must himself, subjectively, tell what tax he will be subject to. It still seems strange to me to have so much uncertainty, as much friability if I can say, in one of the constituent elements of any tax, namely the tax base. I think you are creating a legal framework that does not meet the logic of taxing in our country, that is, a tax base based on known and objective elements and that does not depend solely on the unilateral will of the taxpayer. All this seems to me to be very improvised again. The most fundamental is, of course, access to justice. Justice is one of the three powers. It's also a public service. An important public service, which allows someone who feels harmed to be able to appeal to the courts to obtain justice in all areas: civil, criminal, administrative and judicial. It is therefore important, if one wants to be an evolved society - which we are - to be able to guarantee access to justice for all, not to imagine that at some point there may be a financial obstacle to access to justice. Now, with the bill that you are putting before us, and we have shown you with the help of some very concrete examples, you will make it more difficult for a large part of the population to have access to justice. You told us that there were pro deo, legal aid. But it only covers part of the population. There are people who work and have small incomes and for whom a sum of 100, 200 or 300 euros is money. This could encourage them not to bring a case to justice because precisely, they would consider that it could put them in trouble with a random outcome. Unfortunately, with what you are presenting here, you will clearly put the middle class in difficulty, whereas the middle class has already received an increase in procedural allowances – I thank Mr Massin for reminding him – and the introduction of VAT in the services provided by lawyers, Belgium acting before that as an exception at European level. In other words, in this context, when perhaps a gesture would have had to be made to make justice more financially accessible, you add a layer of it. And why are you doing it? Your explanations are absolutely not convincing, since you tell us that we must be able to ensure that people who use the service of justice can be involved. That, in the end, it's a royalty. And as a second argument, you say that this will help to stem, to avoid delaying procedures, implying that people would spend their lives going to trial. Such an approach is not convincing; there are other ways to discourage delaying procedures. We've already talked about it, so I won't come back to it. But more fundamentally, it means that we are in a logic where those who have the means could continue to make dilatory trials for everything and anything and those who do not, would give up procedures to which they are legitimately entitled. Clearly, you are structurally introducing injustice into access to justice. That is the heart of your bill. This is where we would like a little more clarity in your leadership. Honestly affirm in this forum that, in the end, this operation is of a budgetary nature, that it aims to increase the revenue of the State. This is an argument that could be understood, if the revenue from the increase in registry fees was allocated to justice. One could then eventually admit your increase in registry fees, moreover quite questionable. I explained why. Well, that's not even the case. This additional recipe will integrate the general budget of the Ways and Means and will therefore not benefit justice directly. I'm even going further! If the problem is the refinancing of justice, then your battle should have been done more during the budget conclave. This is where we need to call for means for justice, and it then involves a more general reflection on public finances, which can itself be based on fairer taxation, by making use of other tax bases, rather than asking the people who are entitled, who you only take as taxpayers, to finance the budgetary shortcomings of your department. There is something that, politically, falls within a certain form of lack of courage, with a cover-up behind false arguments. We have explained this sufficiently in the Finance Committee. I would also like to say that you are asking taxpayers to become experts in dispute assessment. People, unless they have the means to do so, are not experts in assessing the value of a dispute! In the same way, are you going to ask the transplants tomorrow to develop their own expertise to challenge it when they register the application and receive the evaluation done by the litigants? In short, you have invented a gas plant on the basis that it is possible, at all times, to evaluate disputes. I would even say that you are going to encourage lawyers and litigants to under-evaluate litigation. What will happen if, at the end of the trial or at the end of the trial, one still comes to wonder what the value of the dispute is? Not all disputes can be assessed financially. Disputes are evaluated financially, but others are not! When it comes to child custody, how is the value of litigation assessed? It seems to me, from this example, that your bill is not working. Maybe it's still time to amend it. I therefore think that we should appeal here to reason. What is most characteristic of your bill is, unfortunately, slowly slipping into the idea of justice that would not be a public service, but a justice that would be a service in the short run, for which we should show that we have the means to have access to it. You are moving us from a public service to a fee system that, unfortunately, carries injustices, which will not contribute to improving the functioning of the department you are responsible for and which, in total, does not allow your bill to receive our assent.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip040x.u34	Mr President, my speech will be brief when my colleague Stefaan Van Hecke has spoken in length and wide. I am pleased to see you both, Ministers of Justice and Finance. We began to discuss in committee this text, which increases registry fees, to make it clear, only in the presence of the Minister of Finance. We challenged that, Mr. Minister of Justice. Indeed, even if this project is aimed at a budgetary objective, and that is why it was put on the agenda of the Finance Committee, it mainly contains provisions whose impact on justice is obvious, particularly in terms of access to it. Minister of Justice, this is a particularly complex matter. You have presented elements of reform that are currently being debated in the Justice Committee. But among the fundamental issues that you need to worry about, I draw your attention to the question of citizens' financial access to justice, the complexity of the justice system, the judicial vocabulary, the adaptation of courts and tribunals to the new issues that may arise – notably through the implementation of the family court. The previous government had undertaken a reform of pro deo, which helped impecunious people defend themselves in court. This was a first step towards making access to justice more difficult, as evidenced by the introduction of a moderator's ticket. With your reform of registry fees, which consists mainly of an increase in these fees, you will further exacerbate their financial difficulties. Your Government refuses to provide itself with sufficient resources in the context of essential, legitimate public missions in this case. The Minister of Justice must find ways of self-financing justice, with all the limits imposed by the self-financing of a regal mission. Is that to say, more generally than this issue of registry rights, that justice will be concerned only with what is remunerative and not with its broad public service missions? We can ask ourselves the question. Similarly, the technicality associated with the assessment of the financial importance of cases, will have an impact on the right of registry to be paid and will introduce a new complexity which may itself be the subject of legal proceedings. Justice is going to feed itself. I have used in committee the term "gas plant", which I have just heard in a colleague's mouth. This convergence of ideas indicates, Mr.Ducarme, a complexity of the mechanism put in place. Rather than simply providing for a refinancing of the justice system to allow it to pay its bills late, to have enough judges to avoid the years of delay in judgements and to carry out a real computerisation, you think it is good to invent a new system of self-financing, which we denounce because of its consequences on the access of all to justice. My colleague Stefaan Van Hecke and I have been concerned in committee about the impact of this bill on the possibilities of collective action or class action, in court. When you read your text, things are not clear. In fact, when the question was asked at its first reading, the content of the Minister of Finance's answer was to say that, in the case of a collective action in court, the registry fee would be payable by each of the persons involved in the case. It is totally contradictory with the spirit of collective legal action, and with the capacity, stressed as positive at the time, given to the citizens who were victims of the same facts to join in a legal action in the same case to assert their rights. In the course of the discussion, the Minister of Finance nuanced his remarks. You yourself, at the second reading, claimed that only one right of registry would be due in the event of a collective action procedure, a class action. But when we asked you to confirm this through an explicit amendment so that the law could be interpreted in a particularly clear way and so that this doubt could be removed, we were particularly surprised and disappointed that the majority did not agree to clarify matters within the framework of the law. Beyond being problematic in terms of access to justice, your law has some shadows as to its interpretation, not only in relation to the assessment of the financial weight of the cases tried, hence the right of registry to be paid, but also in relation to the principle of collective legal action. We would have liked – and it is still time – to be explicitly included in the scheme that only one right is due. If this amendment were to be introduced and voted on, it would, at least as far as this dimension is concerned, give the citizens full reassurance. It is not, however, that we would support this text, which, as I said in my introduction, has only a problematic budgetary vocation in its mind. We do not believe that justice must be self-financing, but it is particularly problematic in terms of access to justice for all. That is why we will vote against the draft resolution being debated today.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip040x.u35	Mr. Speaker, ministers, I think this bill is another attack, as is the entire decomplexed right-wing policy of your government. This is another step in the evolution of justice towards class justice. On the substance of the measure, you tell us that it is only aimed at major disputes. That is not true, since, for a dispute of 2,500 euros with a justice of the peace, the fees of registry will increase from 40 euros to 80 euros. For a single household, it's not a small sum. On the other hand, each party will now have to pay the registry fees. Let us imagine a dispute for an inheritance, starting from 2,500 euros, in which four children would be involved: from 40 euros of registry fees to 320 euros. Of course, I cannot help but point out that the Council of State makes it clear that this system "may endanger access to a judge". It is the Council of State that says it: it is not nothing, gentlemen. Test-Achats says that this project "takes a blow of grace to access to justice", still a step further in the acute way of making a judgment on this project. The journal info@Law says that the simple citizen is left behind, that justice is no longer a right but a commodity. I could continue with the quotations of criticisms from people working on these issues. I think it's a clear signal. This project is not criticized only by opposition parties but is challenged by a large part of civil society. You are telling us, Minister of Justice, that it is a matter of avoiding overconsumption of justice. But the Anti-Poverty Network is saying that the problem is the opposite. The problem is not overconsumption of justice. The problem today is the under-consumption of justice in certain social strata. The Minister of Justice also tells us that justice must be self-financing and that it is a way to do so. We are clearly in the logic of the private sector. Justice is no longer seen as a public service offered to every citizen; it is outside the framework of the spirit of public service and is part of the logic of the private sector. It happens that, by chance, this bill is being considered today, when there are strikes in the public services. This shows that this Government, not only in its budgetary measures but also in measures such as these, systematically destroys public services. The evolution is therefore quite serious. It must be noted that this system based on the amount of the dispute does not take into account the income of the defendant, because there is no link between the two. What is clear is that for a person who has a comfortable income and who can afford the services of a famous tax lawyer on Avenue Louise, who asks for up to 600 euros per hour to provide a defence, or a lawyer from Uccle, who may be a mayor at the same time and for whom we are talking about fees of the order of 1,000 euros, there is no problem with paying a little more registry fees. It must be noted that this increase in registry fees is not an isolated measure. It is part of a whole context and increasingly limits access to justice. The previous government had already increased registry fees by 15 per cent. It is also recalled that the same government has applied a 21 per cent VAT on lawyers' fees. But the current government is not left behind because it also provides for a moderator's ticket in legal aid, an increase in the right of appointment, a decrease in the number of justices of the peace, who are precisely those judges who deal with the cases of ordinary citizens. Anyway, there's a bunch of measurements. It is the whole evolution of justice that poses a problem in becoming class justice. Let us take your initiative, Mr. Minister of Justice, to stop bringing tax fraudsters, such as diamond dealers, to justice. We have the impression that your policy, Mr. Geens, is tailor-made for your former clients of the time, where you were a lawyer yourself and at the service of great well-off litigants, such as diamond dealers who are still, today, defended by your former law firm. If we take the case of diamond fraudsters, what do they have at their disposal in terms of justice? They will soon benefit from a "carats" tax that will certainly allow them – even if we have not yet seen the details of the bill – to escape the controls. There are also criminal transactions, which help them escape justice and prison. I still have to mention your plan, Mr. Geens, to stop bringing tax fraudsters to justice. So it's all locked up. Soon, a diamond fraudster will no longer be brought to justice. The contrast is obviously staggering between, on the one hand, the curvatures that one makes in front of the most affluent and affluent litigants and, on the other hand, the pitfalls that one sows before the ordinary justiciable, the simple citizen who does not have many means and who will have less and less access to justice. Ministers, soon, this simple citizen with low incomes will no longer say "I go to the courthouse", but "I can no longer afford to go to the palace of injustice".
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip040x.u36	Mr President, ministers, ladies and gentlemen, exchanges of arguments have already taken place so much and more. However, as a lawyer and former lawyer concerned with the rights of litigants, I would like to highlight what is totally disproportionate and unjustified in the bill before us. It is a serious violation of the right of the person to have access to justice which guarantees him, moreover, the prompt treatment of his causes. I know that you have developed a reflection on this. Having said that, I will make a first fundamental remark. Demanding a significant increase in the right of appointment – sometimes in the form of an increase of 200 % or even more – while, in this country, as the Court of Auditors' audit showed, cinging on the functioning of the justice service in Belgium, it is not guaranteed that the litigants will be dealt with within a reasonable period of time, this is a totally unacceptable imbalance! One can think about the cost of the service of justice. I know that one of your arguments is that in neighbouring countries, registry fees are higher than ours. But in these neighbouring countries, the budget allocated by the State to the service of justice is much higher than that which successive governments and the present majority in particular still want to devote to the general functioning of justice. I would remind you that we are one of the European countries that spends the lowest rate of public expenditure on the functioning of justice (0.7% of public expenditure on justice in Belgium, 2% in the Netherlands, 1.8% in Great Britain and 1.5% in Germany). One can always think about the cost of justice and demand an additional contribution from litigants in certain circumstances. I'll go back. But then, we must guarantee an optimal service of justice, and we must start with this and not by putting to work the justiciable to whom the functioning of justice is not even guaranteed! It is therefore a serious violation of the operation and access to justice of this bill! You have considered that the introduction of a right of role does not necessarily affect this right of access to the judge. However, the Council of State pointed out - I quote - that "it is necessary to examine whether this is the way in which the scheme under consideration is actually implemented, which, moreover, must be assessed in the context of the whole of the regulation which imposes further financial burdens on the parties who are acting in court". This single reflection of the Council of State should have led you to reflect on the cost of access to justice related not only to the costs of registry fees, procedural allowances, costs of summons per bailiff when the application is not possible. There is a set of thoughts that you have not made about the cost of access to justice. You have isolated one aspect for an immediate budget return. The real motivation of your bill is not to make people abuse the use of justice, and to limit the effects, the real motivation, is budget performance. Indeed, if you had wanted to limit the abuse of recourse to justice, you could have increased the procedural compensation for litigants who start reckless or vexatious proceedings or those who have clearly – I am thinking here of the defendants – set an out-of- proportion time limit to honour their debts or legal obligations. I recognize that litigants who do not want to pay their debts have understood very well that the procedural deadlines are such that at some point applicants lose courage and abandon their claim. This justifies the need for faster justice and more summary procedures. I know that the issue of more summary procedures for payment orders is under discussion. However, the increase in the amount of registry fees, which can be multiplied by five, is unquestionably unacceptable. This will be particularly important in terms of the degree of appeal and cassation, which raises questions in the light of the dual degree of jurisdiction. This increase is in line with the Government's policy developed in the Justice Plan, which aims to resolve, as far as possible, cases at first instance by limiting the possibilities of appealing and seeking cassation in civil matters. Thus, in the project, there is an ultra-stereotyped view of those who would abuse the judiciary, who initiate proceedings lightly and who should be educated, empowered and dissuaded from initiating such proceedings. I have just given you a solution, namely the significant increase in procedural compensation for reckless and vexatious proceedings. But basically, it is a totally stereotypical and unrealistic vision, when we want to look at the nature of the litigation that our jurisdictions have to deal with. The establishment of registry fees based on the value of an application at the time of registration for a role is, moreover, surprising in that it is very difficult to assess. It is for this reason that lawyers often file applications subject to an increase or decrease in the course of the proceedings. However, the Minister of Finance has specified that the amount of the registry fee would be determined on the basis of the value of the application as declared at the beginning of the proceeding, even though certain facts or elements may not be known at the time of the application or may change significantly or cannot be measured. The project therefore does not allow any correction of the evaluation of the application in the event of new costs. As for the determination of the amount of the claim by the claimant himself, what is for the nature of a tax is a contradiction, it is the value of the claim that determines the nature of the right of registry. The assessment is left to the person who introduced the procedure. This will give the temptation for some to underestimate the value of their claim, except to reserve, according to the traditional procedure, the possibility of an increase in the course of proceedings. In other words, you will create the conditions for unequal treatment between litigants, since each litigator will determine the value of his or her claim. Admit it's somewhat risky, even in legal terms. It is also risky to establish a link between the value of a claim and the financial capacity of the claimant. There are disputes, for example those related to physical or other damage, as a result of medical errors, where the defendant may be of very low financial capacity, but where the value of his demand can be very high. As noted by the Council of State, the right of access to the judge could be jeopardized if a person with a lower financial capacity nevertheless had to pay a higher fee. And in the absence of any possibility of derogation or correction, the difference in the amount of registry fees cannot be based on the average or presumed situation being the most common. In other words: your new registry fee formula does not take into account the social reality of the person who brought the action. It is equally risky to establish a link between the value of an application and the workload that the dispute would represent because, as the Council of State has always pointed out, the workload involved in the examination of a case and the degree of difficulty involved do not depend on the financial assessment of the application, so that this provision of the bill does not reconcile with the principle of equality and non-discrimination. How do you justify then, gentlemen, that the Council of State specifically asks you to review the system of tiered role rights and that you have maintained your bill as it stands without complying with the reasoned request of the Council of State? Finally, you also expect that the collection of registry fees per applicant, rather than by case, also implies that several parties to the same case with the same interest will each have to pay those fees, which represents a significant increase in the cost of access to justice. Let us take an example: a couple's co-owners, a building, if they assign their tenants, will each have to pay the fees, while so far they could divide them among themselves. This is not, it seems to me reasonable and justified, except for the expected budgetary performance of this measure. Finally, I would like to stress that this reform of registry fees will affect in particular those of the middle class, ordinary citizens, those who cannot benefit from legal aid because they are just above the limits of eligibility as to the amounts of their income, that this will certainly discourage a number of citizens from engaging in legal proceedings, even though their rights are indisputable. Moreover, you also did not plan to allocate the returns of these new entitlements to support the redeployment of justice services. You yourself admitted him to the Finance Committee, Minister of Justice, on March 26, saying that no agreement was reached within the government on the destination of a possible surplus related to the reform of registry fees for the benefit of the Justice budget. We will therefore support all the amendments aimed at creating a budgetary fund to allocate this revenue so that the justice service is at least supported in the budget as a result of this bill. In short, Minister, you are beginning the major reforms that you have probably announced with the most questionable and least justifiable project. Given the Justice Plan that you presented to us in committee and which I have noted with interest several significant and worthy of debate, minister, you would have been expected to begin with a bill telling us how the justice service would be made more effective within a more reasonable time frame, so that the trust of the citizen and the person in the justice system in our country is strengthened. You start with a project that will create mistrust and misunderstanding. I confirm that we cannot support him.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip040x.u37	Does anyone else want to speak about this design? [[No, no, ……]] Then I give the floor to the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip040x.u38	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have discussed this draft in detail with the Minister of Finance on several occasions and once I have discussed it in committee. I try not to repeat too much, because our time in this life is limited. First of all, I would like to say something about legitimacy and proportionality. The European Court of Human Rights, of course, recognises that access to justice is not absolute and can be restricted in so far as it is legitimate and proportionate. In the past, the European Court has already accepted the financing of the operating costs associated with the conduct of proceedings and the discouragement of the introduction of frivolous procedures as legitimate objectives justifying the lifting of role rights. Proportionality means that the fundamental right of access to justice for those seeking socio-economically weaker justice must be safeguarded by establishing a correction mechanism. That correction mechanism exists in our country in the system of legal aid, which provides relief for the socio-economically weaker category. The present bill will not touch that. In addition, the rates currently applied at each instance are maintained for the smaller claims. In principle, the current exemptions are also not affected, subject to tax and social disputes exceeding EUR 250 000. Finally, I must point out that these amounts are fixed in advance, which are only a fairly modest part of the total cost of court proceedings. I stress even more the safeguards provided in the event that the applicant has underestimated, for the purposes of the case, the value of his application. He must first receive the judge's decision, which will force him to make a proper assessment of the value of the application. Lawyers must also respect ethical duties. They are also obliged to respect the principles of dignity, probity and delicacy. Should there be an abuse, the abuse will remain limited to the first instance, the value being better known in the degree of appeal. The determination of procedural compensation is also based on the value of the claim. The higher the rate, the higher the procedural allowance. Therefore, there is no point in underestimating the value of the claim, as this would have a negative influence on the amount of the procedural award. I believe that most of the various amendments tabled by our fellow Members have already been introduced in the committee where they have received an answer which I hope will be adequate. I am very grateful to Mr Laaouej for his amendment concerning the fund that would be able to finance legal aid costs, but the government will be wise enough to ensure that justice receives the means it needs. You can count on me, Mr.Laaouej, Mr.Maingain: I will ensure that justice is financed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip040x.u39	Mr President, the answers given by the Minister of Justice and the statements made by the majority have already dealt with most of the issues in detail. I would like to make one more point in relation to the costs of justice compared to the countries around us: after the increase, this type of rights of role or access remains very low. Let me give you a few concrete examples. An action brought before the civil court in Germany costs 438 euros. In the Netherlands it costs 876 euros. In Belgium, the right to roll will amount to EUR 100 after the reform. For a claim worth 50 000 euros, the rolling right in Germany is 1 638 euros, in the Netherlands 876 euros and in Belgium, after the reform, 200 euros. I think that is sufficient to indicate that we are making a limited increase, and in the European context we are still at a very modest level compared to our neighbouring countries. Finally, the exemptions, apart from the very large amounts in labour disputes and tax disputes, remain intact and thus also access to the legal proceedings.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip040x.u40	Mr President, I would like to say to Mr Geens that I do not doubt his goodwill. On the other hand, I doubt that of his colleagues in the government. I take note that you will defend your budget with a request for additional resources. I'm not sure you'll be followed. That's what I'm worried about. That is why I believe that our amendment remains relevant and timely despite your good will. I would even say that this amendment should be taken as an encouragement and a signal, which you could eventually endorse and share with the members of the government. It is not too late, it has already been seen that the whole of Parliament is joining in an opposition amendment that meets common sense. This is your most important, most intimate wish. Another factor, in fact, is that the comparison with neighbouring countries does not resist the analysis, since the scope of the analysis is broadened. The comparison of registry fees should not be limited. The functioning of justice as a whole must be seen in each country. From this point of view, at this stage, this work has not been done by the government to convince us that the increase in registry fees will not result in higher legal costs than in other countries. We must also see what the people in this House have in return. Nor do I see in the response of the Ministers to take into account the opinion of the Council of State. Somewhere, it announces future remedies on the violation of the principles of equality and non-discrimination. The Council of State explicitly says so. You don't answer that. There is still a huge blur on the problem of collective action. We were not convinced either in committee or in plenary. That being said, and for the rest, I take note of the attitude of the government, which, in a general context of reducing the disposable income of households and workers, of non-indexation of rents, means that unfortunately people, in general, will find it increasingly difficult to reach both ends and therefore to take on a possible dispute.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip040x.u41	Mr President, the Minister of Justice, to hear you, I wonder if you didn't buy a cat in a bag, as they say in French. You're a very good bilingual, so you understand that expression. [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip040x.u42	Cela se dit aussi en neerlandais, me dit ma collégue. A cat in a bag.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip040x.u43	I wonder if this is ultimately the specialty of CD&V in this government. Yesterday, we discussed the index jump for a few hours with the Minister of Employment who told us that you were not entirely in favour of index jumps but that you will apply it because it appears in the government agreement and that a tax shift will be implemented at a later date. You do the same. You decide to increase registry fees because you have been forced to find additional means of justice within your jurisdiction in the area of justice. Then they can be assigned to improve the functioning of justice. Today, you do not have these means and you will still have to negotiate, pay for and swallow other snakes. That's really our concern. More specifically, I was asking you in the gallery, and I am not the only one who did, about the registry fees to be paid in the course of a collective legal action. The text is not precise in this respect. Various interpretations were given by Mr. Van Overtveldt and by yourself on the subject. Beyond the question of general access to justice, it seems to us that this would be a way of undermining this important possibility at the level of Belgian law, which is a novelty. I would like to hear you here in plenary, if we do not vote on an amendment that would make things more explicit within the legal framework, on the fact that in the case of collective action, only one right of registry is to be paid and that this text will not have the effect of sabotage the positive perspectives of the system of collective action in court, class action.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip040x.u44	Mr President, Ministers, and especially you, Minister, yesterday and the days before, we discussed the index jump for a very long time. It has always been said that your party wants to place particular emphasis on the least fortunate and those who are struggling in this society, but that a number of sacrifices must be made. Despite the fact that not only a consumer organisation such as Test Purchasing, but even the Council of State says very clearly that this is discriminatory and unjust, and that it will once again make things more expensive for those who are struggling in this society, you will continue to do so. I also did not receive an answer to the amendment we tabled. I assume that you will approve this, since you have also said that it is right and that it should be more about a matter, especially if it is a common matter, and much less about those who submit it, and that this is, in part, unjust. I assume, since no reply was received, that you will approve this amendment of the sp.a.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip040x.u45	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip040x.u46	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (906/7) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (906/7) The title was changed by the Committee to "draft law amending the Code of Registration, Mortgage and Registry Rights in order to reform the Registry Rights." The title has been amended by the Commission into "Bill amending the Code of Registration, Mortgage and Registry Rights to reform the registry fees". The draft law contains 7 articles. The bill has 7 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip040x.u47	****** The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and articles that have been tabled and on the whole will take place later. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and the reserved articles as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. ****** Decision of the article-by-article discussion:
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip040x.u48	Sustained: the vote on the amendments and Articles 3 and 7. Article adopted by article: Articles 1, 2, 4 to 6.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip040x.u49	* * * * * * * Georges Gilkinet(Ecolo-Groen): Mr President, I am a little late in the procedure. Is it possible to reintroduce our amendment on the file I have mentioned, i.e. the right of registry in the case of a collective action procedure in court? Is it too late?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip040x.u50	Yes, Mr. Gilkinet, it's too late. Georges Gilkinet(Ecolo-Groen): Mr.President, please excuse me. That's not gonna happen to me anymore.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip040x.u51	Ladies and gentlemen, we are closing our work here. We start our work again at 2:15 p.m. with public sector pensions. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Wednesday 22 April 2015 at 2.15 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Wednesday, 22 April 2015, at 2.15 p.m.
