ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic053x.u1	Mr President, this interplay, as well as the following, is about statements by the Vice-Governor of Brussels. I have submitted two interviews, because they relate to two different aspects. First of all, the person concerned has made remarkable statements on the application of language legislation in administrative matters for the Brussels police and public hospitals. Since there have been more municipal police zones, officially since 1 January 2001, the nomination and promotion files of the Brussels police are no longer automatically forwarded to the governor. However, the governor should check the files for compliance with language legislation. It used to be checked whether the knowledge of the second language was in order and whether the language relationship between the two language groups was respected, but that is no longer the case. Similarly, files relating to OMCW hospital staff have not been forwarded to the Deputy Governor for control since 1995 with the introduction of the IRIS structure. In this way, the files escape any check on the application of language legislation. What were the remarkable statements made by the Brussels Vice-Governor? It comes from a question from De Brussels Post. Literally, he says, I quote: 'The attempts on the French-speaking side to mess with the status of certain services, which would no longer make them part of any compelling language legislation, are unmistakable. The Brussels OCMW hospitals are put into an IRIS umbrella and so language legislation no longer applies." The theorem is supported by constitutional specialist Marc Uyttendaele, until some time the partner of Laurette Onkelinx. He himself does not agree with that view. He says, "I quote: "Trying to remove hospitals or police forces from the application of local language legislation makes no sense." He compares with the Brussels fire department, which is indeed a regional service. He is also right to say that there has been insufficient consideration of the repercussions that this would have on language legislation in the reform of the State. Take now the situation of the police zones. On the one hand, they are excluded from the municipal authority, on the other hand, it cannot be the intention to circumvent language legislation. In any case, the municipalities and the federal state are de facto monitoring the police zones," we read in the interview with the Brussels Vice-Governor. He said that, in the light of the provisions of the language legislation, both the Brussels OCMW hospitals and the Brussels police zones should still be regarded as local authorities based in Brussels-Capital. So all recruitment and promotion files still have to be delivered to the vice-governor, who checks that they comply with language legislation. That hasn't happened in years. According to the governor, that should still be possible without any change of law. Many legal scholars join and say that there is no need for a legislative initiative to have language legislation checked by the governor. In my interview request I mentioned an article by Tom De Pelsmaeker and Emmanuel Vandenbossche, which perfectly explains this. The fact is that the administrative supervision of the police areas is indeed entrusted to the regions under the special law. However, the special law also provides that the powers of the Federal Government and the Communities should not be affected, including in matters falling within their competence, such as language legislation, in order to organise and exercise specific administrative supervision. Language legislation is still a federal competence. So the federal government can perfectly organise and exercise specific administrative supervision to have language legislation applied in the Brussels police zones. Minister, can you provide legal clarity? Do you agree with the position of the Vice-Governor and the legal scholars I have quoted, in particular that the police zones and the Brussels OCMW hospitals of the IRIS structure should automatically deliver the recruitment and promotion files of their staff to the Vice-Governor in order to verify their compliance with language legislation? If you agree with that interpretation, then the logical question is what you will do to ensure that it is done in practice. That has not been the case for 15 years. If you do not agree with that statement, will you then bring legal clarity and provide for a legislative amendment to organise a specific administrative supervision yourself, so that, for example, the vice-governor is explicitly empowered or, in one way or another, is made legally clear that there is control over the application of language legislation in those files? I'm very curious to hear your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic053x.u2	Mrs Pas, I was actually ready to respond to your conversation last week, but the New Year's celebrations probably took their toll. As you yourself have pointed out, the monitoring of administrative language legislation has been regionalised a long time ago. So if you have any questions about supervision in Brussels, then the assembly where you normally have to formulate it is the Brussels-Capital Parliament, with regard to the Prime Minister. In substance, of course, I agree with the views of the Vice-Governor. In other words, appointments and promotions in all local administrations in the bilingual Brussels-Capital area covered by the administrative language legislation should be submitted to the Vice-Governor. The fact that this is not happening is something that is being sued not only by the current Vice-Governor, but also by his predecessor, which has been in the Vice-Governor's annual report for years. That's really not new. Once again, it is the Brussels regional authorities who monitor and act on this issue. For the rest, the government parties have no intention of taking an initiative that affects legal language control or the powers of the vice-governor in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic053x.u3	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Of course, we initially asked those responsible for the Brussels Government to do the same at that level. However, you will not be surprised that at that level there is not much incentive to change things. It is therefore logical that I should go to the Minister responsible for language legislation. After all, it is still a matter of federal competence. You say that you are following the governor's interpretation and that those files should normally be forwarded to the vice-governor for review under the language law. Unfortunately, that is only part of the answer, because about what is needed and about the measures that I have asked for and which you can take in order to do something about it effectively, you say, unfortunately, that you will not take any initiative. I will try to get this through Parliament and I have a motion of recommendation ready to take the necessary measures so that the Brussels police zones and the OCMW hospitals would effectively forward their recruitment files, appointment files and promotion files to the Vice Governor in Brussels. You are right to point out that the problem is not new, but it would mean new and a change if we were finally to do something about it in practice.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic053x.u4	At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Barbara Pas and Mr Jan Penris and reads as follows: The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mrs Barbara Pas and the reply of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Security and Home Affairs, in charge of Great Cities and the Government of the Buildings, - whereas since the entry into force of the multi-municipal police zones from 1 January 2001, the appointment and promotion files of the Brussels police have no longer been forwarded to the Vice-Governor of Brussels-Capital to verify their compliance with the language law in administrative matters; - whereas since 22 December 1995 the same has not been done for the hospitals of the IRIS structure; - whereas the Vice-Governor of Brussels-Capital considers that there are reasons to believe that this should still be done and that this is supported by a certain doctrine of law; - whereas the language law in administrative matters is a law of public order, asks the Minister take the necessary measures to ensure that the Brussels police zones and hospitals of the IRIS structure return all their recruitment and promotion files to the Vice-Governor of Brussels-Capital so that they can be checked for compliance with the provisions of the Language Law in administrative matters. ' A motion for recommendation was tabled by Ms. Barbara Pas and Mr. Jan Penris and reads as follows: The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Mrs Barbara Pas and the response of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Security and Interior, responsible for the Grand Cities and the Régie des Bâtiments, Whereas, since the entry into force on 1 January 2001 of the multi-municipal police zones, the appointment and promotion files of the members of the Brussels police force are no longer transmitted to the Vice-Governor of Brussels-Capital for the purpose of monitoring compliance with the laws on the use of languages in administrative matters; Whereas, since 22 December 1995, the same applies to hospital establishments in the IRIS structure; - Whereas the Vice-Governor of Brussels is of the opinion that there is reason to consider that such review should always be carried out and that this thesis is supported by a certain doctrine; - Whereas the laws on the use of languages in administrative matters are of public policy, asks the Minister take the necessary measures to ensure that all recruitment and promotion files for staff members of the Brussels police areas and hospitals of the IRIS structure are again forwarded to the Vice-Governor of Brussels-Capital so that their compliance with the provisions of the laws on the use of languages in administrative matters can be monitored." A simple motion was tabled by Mr Franky Demon. A simple motion was tabled by Mr. Franky Demon. Motions for resolutions will be voted on at a later date b. The meeting's over. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic053x.u5	Madam President, Minister, this discussion is about another statement in the same interview with the Vice-Governor of Brussels. He's talking about the suspensions he's not doing. He shall have the power to suspend the personnel files of the Brussels local authorities if they are not in conformity with language legislation. He says about this in the interview: "There are also cases where a dossier is not in order, but I am not suspending it. The typical example of this is the short replacement of less than one year, for example in the case of pregnancy or disease. That may seem a very innocent statement, but it is not if one takes into account the extent of the number of cases of illegal appointments which are not suspended by the Deputy Governor. The report by the Vice-Governor of the Brussels-Capital administrative district, which you referred to just now in your reply to the previous question, shows for 2012 that 336 cases were not suspended by the Vice-Governor in that year, although they were not in accordance with language legislation. That is a third, 33.5 % of all illegal appointments. That is as much as 19.5 %, almost a fifth, of all appointments and promotions in that year. In the case of OCMW the situation is even worse, there were 788 cases which were not suspended by the Vice-Governor although that was actually to be done and that was 57% of all illegal cases in that year and almost half, 45.5%, of all appointments and promotions in that year. In conclusion, the vice-governor's policy of systematically not suspending in a number of dossiers encourages and is responsible for the total lack of bilingual services in the Brussels local authorities. The Council of State has held on several occasions that a power of destruction in respect of the treatment of illegal appointments in Brussels local authorities is not an optional one but a mandatory one. Does that also apply to the power of suspension of the Deputy Governor? Does he have an appreciation for appointments that are illegal under language law? Can he decide whether or not they should be suspended? Or is he obliged, as the Council of State also states, to suspend any unlawful appointment by definition? If he had an appreciation, would I have liked to know from you how far it could go? Can this go as far as today in practice, namely that it jeopardises the bilinguality of services in Brussels' local authorities? If he does not have such an appreciation, what measures will you take to ensure that he suspends all illegal appointments in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic053x.u6	Mrs Pas, as with the previous question, I must point out that the Vice-Governor of Brussels-Capital supervises administrative legislation in the 19 Brussels municipalities and the OCMW under the authority of the Brussels-Capital Government for the municipalities and the United College of the Common Community Commission for the OCMW, respectively. It is they who can destroy the decisions which he has suspended if necessary. Moreover, it is to that power of destruction that the judgment of the Council of State which you are referring to refers to. This does not, of course, change the fact that administrative language legislation in the bilingual area of Brussels-Capital is a federal competence that can only be adapted at federal level. However, monitoring was regionalised a long time ago. So if you have any questions about the functioning of the Vice-President, then the Brussels-Capital Parliament is the normal assembly where you have to formulate them with regard to the Prime Minister. That's the thing about the formal. In substance, you refer to statements made by the current Deputy Governor regarding his attitude to the contractual appointment of particularly short duration, replacement contracts for pregnancy, sickness and parental leave. As you can see in the Deputy Governor's annual report, he continues the policy of his predecessor. That is to say, if a person is recruited for a very short period of time and not for a period of time which may not yet be possible, he shall not suspend his appointment. That is an act of policy by the vice-governor. However, he shall suspend all statutory appointments and any contractual recruitment of an indefinite duration or longer than one year where the person concerned does not have the required language licence. I note with you that this is a continuous practice that has been mentioned in the annual report for many years. This has been the practice for many years. Of course, this should not jeopardise the bilingual services provided by the Brussels local authorities. However, I can also see from the Vice-President's report that, to the extent that there is a problem here, this is rather the result of the many illegal appointments and appointments that are suspended but not destroyed by the Brussels Capital Government. I believe it is more important to focus on the suspension of people who have contracts for more than a year. This can, of course, fundamentally undermine the bilingualism of a service. I believe that the problem is there, but that was actually already the subject of your previous interplay.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic053x.u7	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. I agree with you when you say that the suspension of appointments for contracts of more than one year should be a priority. However, the policy of not suspending the Vice-Governor today increases the problem. I note that he is pursuing the policies of his predecessors, as you say, but that does not mean that it is a good policy or that people are not waiting for policy change. If action is not taken by the required level and something needs to change in practice, it will have to be done through language legislation. As you say yourself, that's still federal matter. I will therefore table a motion for a recommendation so that the federal level, through language legislation, provides for the necessary measures to ensure that the vice-governor carries out his duties properly so that all relations, appointments and promotions in Brussels local authorities which are not in order in terms of language legislation are effectively suspended.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic053x.u8	At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Barbara Pas and Mr Jan Penris and reads as follows: The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mrs Barbara Pas and the reply of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Security and Home Affairs, in charge of Great Cities and the Government of the Buildings, - whereas the Vice-Governor of Brussels-Capital has stated that he does not suspend certain files of appointments and promotions in Brussels local authorities which are not in accordance with the rules of the language law in administrative matters, - having regard to the considerable number of files involved, - having regard to the fact that it jeopardises the legal bilingualism of the services provided by the Brussels local authorities, - whereas, by analogy with the view of the Council of State as to the non-optional nature of the power of destruction in this matter, it can also be stated that the Vice-Governor of Brussels-Capital does not have an appreciation of whether or not to suspend files which are not in order, - whereas the language law in administrative matters is a law of public order, asks the Minister take the necessary measures to ensure that the Vice-Governor of Brussels-Capital suspends all matters relating to appointments or promotions in Brussels local authorities which are not in accordance with the provisions of the Language Law in administrative matters." A motion for recommendation was tabled by Ms. Barbara Pas and Mr. Jan Penris and reads as follows: The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Mrs Barbara Pas and the response of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Security and Interior, responsible for the Grand Cities and the Régie des Bâtiments, - Whereas the Vice-Governor of Brussels-Capital declared that he did not suspend certain appointments and promotions in Brussels local administrations which, however, did not comply with the requirements of the legislation on the use of languages in administrative matters, - considering the considerable number of cases concerned, - Whereas this situation endangers the bilingualism, which constitutes a legal obligation, of services within Brussels' local administrations, - Whereas, by analogy with the Council of State's view on the non-optional nature of the power of annulment in the matter, it can also be said that the Vice-Governor of Brussels-Capitale also does not have jurisdiction to decide whether or not to suspend files which are not in good standing, - Whereas the Law on the Use of Languages in Administrative Matters is a law of public policy, asks the Minister take the necessary measures to ensure that the Vice-Governor of Brussels-Capital suspends all cases concerning appointments or promotions within Brussels local administrations, which do not comply with the provisions of the Law on the use of languages in administrative matters." A simple motion was tabled by Mr Franky Demon and Mr Koen Metsu. A simple motion was tabled by Messrs. Franky Demon et Koen Metsu. Motions for resolutions will be voted on at a later date b. The meeting's over. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic053x.u9	Question No 672 by Mr Koenraad Degroote was withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic053x.u10	Mr Minister, my question stems from everything that went wrong during the national demonstration in Brussels in November 2014. After all, a whole series of evaluations and conclusions were published in the press before everything was finished. In the meantime, I have heard that the plan is to discuss these reports here in the Internal Affairs Committee as a whole when all is done. My question has been tabled some time ago, but in the meantime you may be able to tell me how many reports we are dealing with. Have you received the report of the General Inspection of the Federal and Local Police? Can you tell us what the conclusions in that report are? Can you tell us who published the report in the press under the term "police report" and would it say that no one is to blame or that the Mayor of Brussels is to blame? Who communicated the results of that report to the press in advance? After all, I can imagine that it was the intention to bring everything out as a whole, once everything had been completed. Has a final report been prepared yet? Can you give a tip of the veil on the conclusions of that report? If that final report is not yet available, when can we expect it? When will it be submitted to the Committee on the Interior?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic053x.u11	Mrs Pas, there is indeed a lot of confusion and it is good that you are asking that question so that we can make a clear statement. At the moment, about one and a half reports have been prepared. The first is an internal police report from the Brussels Police Zone Capital of Ixelles, which was drawn up internally by the police themselves. The second, then half of the report, is an interim report from the General Inspectorate, which deals with the state of play. The internal police report of the Brussels Police Zone Capital of Ixelles was discussed in the consultation committee between the syndicated partners and the local government of the police, the High Consultation Committee. The inspection has been with me with the interim report just before Christmas. I have taken note of this and have given additional instructions to the General Inspection to conduct further interviews and further research. Poking a date is always difficult and so don't pin me on it, but I expect the final report by the end of next week. As far as the work of your committee is concerned, that is something you should deal with with your chairman. I have offered to discuss the finished report in committee: the report is public and we can therefore discuss it in committee. I expect it somewhere by the end of next week, at least on short notice. I am not saying anything about the interim report, because it was interim and it is premature to draw any conclusions from it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic053x.u12	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. It is indeed useful to know which reports are available and what the state of play is, because everything has already been said in the press. There was also a final report. I hope that one of your additional tasks, after reading the interim report, will be about the role of the mayor, but we will see when the final report is before us. I am glad that it will come soon, because this case has been dragging on for some time. I look forward to having the debate on this in committee in a few weeks' time.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic053x.u13	Madam President, Minister, the ministerial circular of 14 August 2014 on communal allocations to relief areas sets out the criteria to be taken into account in determining the amount of these allocations. At the same time, Article 68 of the Law of 15 May 2007, supplemented by the Law of 19 April 2014, states: "The allocations of the communes of the area are fixed each year by a deliberation of the Council, on the basis of the agreement reached between the various communal councils concerned. The agreement shall be reached no later than November 1 of the year preceding the year for which staffing is planned. For the first registration of the municipal allocation, the pre-area council may decide to postpone the date of 1 November 2014 and obtain an agreement by 1 November 2015 at the latest." In the absence of such an agreement no later than November 1, or exactly two months before the date of the area crossing, the allocation of each municipality shall be determined by the Governor of the Province, who shall take into account the criteria set out in the above circular. It shall then be up to each municipality to notify it of the amount to be paid, not later than 15 December of the year preceding the year for which the allocation is planned. Following a review of the legislative arsenal in this area, it appears that there is no clarification as to the operational pre-areas that decide to extend the date of the transition to an area to a different date from 1 January 2015 or 1 January 2016, as is the case, in particular, with the Hainaut East area. Minister, can you clarify to me the time limit within which an agreement on the amount of the allocation of each municipality must be made between the municipalities of a pre-operational area that does not pass into zone either on January 1, 2015, or on January 1, 2016? Do you confirm the two-month rule before the date of the crossing? Whatever rule is adopted in this case, what action do you intend to take to clarify this rule formally so that no ambiguity remains, particularly for the members of the council of the pre-areas concerned and the governor of the province who must, at any time, know from which date he or she must fix the amount of communal endowments?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic053x.u14	Mr Blanchart, thank you for your question. In order to remove any ambiguity, it is important to ask questions in committee. This allows me to give clarifications. To be very concrete, the agreement must be reached for the first of the second month preceding the date of entry into force of the emergency zone. Thus, if an area enters into force on 1 July 2015, the agreement must be reached before 1 May 2015. According to my information, 29 zones have already entered into force since 1 January and the other five areas will start before 1 July, so in a short time. The spirit of the law is thus respected: to allow the governor, in the event of disagreement by the communes on the distribution key, to have sufficient time to develop the additional allocation key of the communal endowments. This rule is included in the FAQ which is made available to the emergency areas in order to provide them with all the necessary information as part of the transition to the emergency zone. The FAQ is available on the Civil Security website. The pre-areas that asked my services the question were informed of this rule in writing. In order for the same information to be given to all the areas concerned by an area crossing report, my services will inform these pre-areas of the time limit within which the agreement on communal allocations must take place.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic053x.u15	Minister, thank you for these very specific answers. This will allow us to prepare for the development of this distribution key to move into an area, hopefully, on July 1, 2015. If I understand correctly, you will send us a written answer. Your vous and remerce.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic053x.u16	Minister, the signing in 2011 of the Partnership Agreement between the local police areas, the Walloon Region and the Federal Police, has put in place a whole series of actions aimed at repression and prevention of excessive or inappropriate speed. In particular, the Walloon Region proposed to finance the housings of fixed radars and the signs indicating them. In return, police forces had to commit themselves to carrying out more checks in areas at risk and on dangerous sections. The underlying idea was, of course, to reduce the number of accidents, especially fatal ones, on Walloon roads. This is obviously an objective that we all share. However, it appears that prosecutors cannot deal with all driving offences, as they are engorged. A report drawn up which is not followed by a sanction is obviously ineffective in the context of a policy to combat road accidents. In view of the congestion of prosecutors' offices, prosecutors refuse to allow the placement of new fixed radars on the territory of certain police areas, which severely limits their autonomy and their road safety strategy. However, fixed radar poles have a significant deterrent effect, whether or not they are equipped with a camera. Therefore, prevention can be done through these poles while not engulfing the courts of minutes for traffic offences. I can explain: if five or six fixed poles are installed, radar is obviously indispensable. Otherwise, in the short term, users will be aware of this, and this measure will not be very effective. Therefore, Minister, these are my questions. Are you planning to adapt the strategy of repression and awareness to the traffic offences to the capacity of prosecutors to handle the minutes? Do you intend to generalize the payment of amounts proposed by the police in order to avoid prosecuting some of the persons who have been verbalized in court while maintaining a sanction? What impact can the congestion of prosecutors' offices have on the effectiveness of campaigns organized by the federal police and local police areas? Is the Federal Police in a position to meet its commitments, primarily in terms of staffing, to other parties to the 2011 Partnership Convention? Finally, is a king's prosecutor competent to prohibit a police zone from placing fixed radars on its territory? In short, some areas installed fixed radars a few years ago. Others waited for some budget items to be reduced so that they could tackle them, but they received a negative response from the King's attorney. I asked the Minister of Justice this question because I wonder if a police zone can be prohibited from installing fixed radars on its area for the various reasons I have just mentioned. If the primary objective is to reduce fatal accidents and reduce speed, I do not see how we can be prevented from investing and placing fixed radars on our areas.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic053x.u17	Mrs Cassart-Mailleux, to answer your first question, a single sending project is being examined in order to simplify the immediate collection procedures. As you know, currently there are two more shipments: the VP and the payment form. The ultimate goal is to have a single shipment, i.e. group together the VP and the payment form. Streamline and simplify and obtain less administration. In answer to your second question, the immediate perception system already works very well and is already widely used. For the time being, speeding is mainly governed by immediate perceptions, the amounts of which depend on the degree of speed exceeding the authorized speed. This does not result in an additional workload. Where both the immediate perception and the following transaction proposal remain unpaid, the Public Prosecutor's Office shall issue either a summons or a payment order. The excess speed resulting in the revocation of the driving licence results in a summons to the court. Your third question relates to the impact of the congestion of the public prosecutor's offices and that of the courts which it may entail as a result. The classification of certain minutes means, in a first phase, that the perpetrators of certain road offences remain unpunished. This applies, on the one hand, to offenders who do not wish to pay and take the risk of being summoned to court, and, on the other hand, to offenders who commit serious offences (e.g. serious speeding) and who, as a result, may escape prosecution. As indicated in answer to the first question, this is not desirable and should be avoided at all costs. As far as your next question is concerned, at present this is not a problem and the commitments are being fulfilled. The relatively general drafting of this convention on lack of quantitative commitment allows for some flexibility in this area. Finally, with regard to the measures taken by the King's prosecutors. The location and circumstances of the use of fixed devices operating automatically in the absence of a qualified official, intended to monitor on the public road the application of the Law on the Road Traffic Police and the decrees made pursuant thereto shall be the subject of concerted action. This consultation (the zonal security council) takes place between the administrative, police and judicial authorities. The latter are represented by the King's attorney. A number of measures may be imposed in the framework of this consultation, including an assessment of the impact of this radar device on the workload of the administration in the public prosecutor's offices.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic053x.u18	Minister, thank you for the comprehensiveness of your answer. I think that only one shipment is administrative simplification. We're going in the right direction. I can follow you on that: we are going to cut down the courts, we are going to be able to simplify, we will have a faster payment. That goes in the right direction. For the following answers, I will analyze them and see if there are any contacts or reactions to have. As far as the King's prosecutors are concerned, I will inform the area. Consultation with the zonal council is important because a blockage complicates the situation if there are no means of redress. If I have any further questions, I'll come back to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic053x.u19	Mr President, Minister, the Royal Decree of 2 February 2009 determines the geographical delimitation of all the relief areas of the territory. However, until the crossing into the zone, certain fire services continue to cover territorially certain protected communes which, after the crossing into the zone, will not, de facto, be in the same emergency zone as those services. The reason for this was that at the time they were convinced to layer on the police areas. In a number of cases, a risk coverage analysis shows that no fire department in the area to which these communes will belong can provide a coverage rate equivalent to that previously provided by the fire department on which they historically depended. In this context, the municipalities concerned by this case express the wish to remain protected by the same fire department and therefore to change the operational area to reach the area to which the service which protects them belongs. These communes determined to change operational zones and return to their original coverage have formally expressed in the communal council their plans to change areas and have sent their decision, as provided for in the procedure, to the governor of the province of Hainaut so that it can convene its provincial advisory committee on geographical distribution of operational zones, which is empowered to decide on the request of these communes to change areas. You've been faster than the path of my question. When I introduced it, the governor did not yet have a legal clarification in this regard and wondered. I know you've met him since then and that the meetings have made it possible to unblock the situation. However, Minister, I would like to know your interpretation of the text and your vision on this subject. Do you confirm that it is possible for the municipalities that would wish to change their operational zones? Can you confirm to me that it is necessary to rely on the interpretation of the law and on the will of the legislator who, in this respect, did not want to freeze the delimitation of the areas? Your predecessor had replied to the governor in that regard. Do you think that, in this case, communal autonomy should be given priority over zone change? Finally, in order to remove any ambiguity in this text on the will of the legislator – a text which still needs to be reworked in many respects – will the decree of 4 March 2008 be amended? If so, within what time frame?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic053x.u20	Mr Blanchart, you have introduced a lot of questions about this. Your last question...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic053x.u21	I wanted to know your position on communal autonomy in this area following the determination of the municipalities to determine themselves from one area rather than another. How do you see this approach?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic053x.u22	In this case, this is a limited autonomy. A procedure is provided for a change of zone, but it is not because the municipality decides so. The Governor also has an impact on the decision. With regard to your first question, I confirm that it is possible to change the delimitation of the area for the municipality(s) that wish to do so. The procedure to be followed is explained in articles 14 and 15 of the Civil Security Act of 15 May 2007 and in the Royal Decree of 4 March 2008. The latter will be amended by the end of 2015. We know that there are still questions about these reforms. We start on 1 January for those who want to and others can join us after, knowing that there are still problems to be solved. It's a bit like when you learn to swim, the theory is good, but at some point you have to get into the water. In this case, we are doing the same thing. We take all the questions and try to answer them in a pragmatic way. That is why, I repeat, it is useful, at least at the beginning, to take all matters relating to the reform of fire services once a month and to include them in a special committee meeting, not to have political debates but pragmatic debates in order to examine the remaining problems and what needs to be done to resolve them. You have many contacts with your areas and communes. Our services also have many questions, and joint consideration of them will certainly help us to improve the situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic053x.u23	Mr Minister, your proposal to convene a kind of technical committee seems interesting to me. Irrespective of the members of the committee, we have the chance to have zone presidents in our Assembly. This very technical and very long file to discover nevertheless requires the modification of a lot of points. It would perhaps be interesting, if possible, to extend this technical committee to the members of the Assembly who are confronted on the ground with this issue, in particular the zone presidents.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic053x.u24	I have had a few years of experience as a parliamentarian. In committee, everyone is always given the opportunity to participate and ask questions. I think that is provided for in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic053x.u25	I therefore assume that this may also be the case in a technical committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic053x.u26	Mr President, Minister, electric bicycles are becoming increasingly popular, which in itself is a good thing if we look at this in the light of sustainable and smooth mobility. I would, of course, like to comment on the latter because figures from the Netherlands show that electric bicycles are responsible for more and more serious accidents. Following some incidents and complaints from bicycle vendors about high-quality electric bicycles, the FPS Economy announced last summer that it would investigate this. Meanwhile, the results of a first administrative inquiry are known. The conclusion is that no controlled bicycle was in order with the administrative obligations. On the basis of this investigation, the inspectors of the FPS Economy suspect that many electric bicycles can drive faster than the legal limit of 25 km per hour. In the Netherlands, too, this is the maximum permitted speed. In the past, it has been argued on several occasions that control of electric bicycles with pedal support is not an issue. Findings regarding the taking of evidence would be impossible. It is true that it is difficult to demonstrate scientifically what proportion of the speed generated is due to human effort and which results from the electric motor of the bike. Of course, Minister, this problem does not arise in the case of bicycles without pedal support. My question is therefore whether checks are already being carried out on the speed of electric bicycles without pedal support? Do you see this as a task for the police or do you think this is a matter for the FPS Economy? Finally, what initiatives will you take to tackle excessive speed in electric bicycles without pedal support in order to avoid more and more serious accidents with bicycles in traffic?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic053x.u27	Thank you, Mr Yüksel, for your question. To your first question, regarding the checks on the speed of electric bicycles without pedal support, I can answer the following. Bicycles without pedal support are only permitted if they can be considered as motorized propulsion equipment. These devices shall not be allowed to run more than 18 km/h. If they run faster, there is a moped class A or B, depending on the maximum speed being 25 km per hour or 45 km per hour. In the case of mopeds, indicative checks may be carried out on the roller test bench. Such measuring equipment is not available for the motorised propulsion equipment. I would like to say that we are not yet available. As far as your second question is concerned, as regards the role of the police, I am sure that the police certainly have a supervisory role in this matter. However, in addition to preventive measures, it can at present only monitor the conformity of these bicycles, not speed. The rules currently laid down in a European regulation will give the police more room for manoeuvre by regulating the use of non-compliant motor bicycles after transposition into Belgian law and by means of an adaptation of the various regulations. A working group examines which applications are required. We are aware of the problem and a working group is considering what adjustments should be made to the regulatory framework. Your third question concerns the approach to excessive speed. The police services are currently looking for a performant and legal means to control the speed of these devices. For this purpose, a model approval of the measuring equipment is required by the FPS Economy, department of Metrology. So far there has not been any supply on the market in this area, so the equipment does not exist at the moment. It is clear that this problem does not only exist in this country. A solution to this phenomenon is sought across national borders. If you know a manufacturer who wants to concentrate on that domain, there is certainly a market open there, even a European market.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic053x.u28	I believe, Minister, that we must, of course, take this issue seriously for security reasons. I understand that the equipment is not available today to carry out the checks. In my view, we need to speed this up. You said that a working group was set up for the transposition of the European regulation. The transposition must take place as soon as possible, but I do not know whether any timing was set. Do you have any idea when the European regulation will be transposed into Belgian legislation? Since it is a mobility problem, I would ask you to consult with your colleague from Mobility.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic053x.u29	I have no idea of the timing at the moment, but I would like to give you that answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic053x.u30	Thank you for that, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic053x.u31	Mr Demon is not present because he is currently asking questions in the Committee on Health, but his question will be discussed later in the afternoon.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic053x.u32	Minister, this question is indeed being raised with a week's delay, but I had asked the secretariat to inform me. I've been here till 6:30. I had a meeting in Brussels. However, something went wrong with that warning, for which I apologize. The law of 3 August 2012 allows police services to view camera images on the network of public transport companies or in real-time nuclear sites. This Act entered into force on 10 September 2012. The new law added a paragraph to Article 9 of the existing law of 2007. The federal and local police services, within the framework of their mandates of judicial or administrative police, will have free and free access in real time to the images of the cameras installed on the network of the transport companies and on the nuclear sites. The conditions and modalities of such access in real time had to be laid down in a royal decree. Apparently, this royal decree is lacking so far. I have the following questions. Will you proceed to define the conditions and modalities by means of this royal decree? If so, when could this royal decree appear? Especially the Brussels police are asking parties in this area. They need this close cooperation with the Brussels transport company very much.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic053x.u33	Mrs Temmerman, in the previous legislature, a royal decision was prepared on this subject, but it was never concluded. You rightly point out the police interest in accessing these images. I am therefore committed to publishing this royal decree. I also announced this during the discussion of my policy paper. Let me give you the current state of affairs. The administration is currently preparing a draft royal decree which must now go down the political road. I am therefore very much in favour of getting this done in the first half of this year. We're working on it one way or the other.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic053x.u34	Thank you, Minister, for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic053x.u35	Mr President, Minister, in recent months a number of disciplinary sanctions taken by the Brussels Police Colleges have been destroyed by the Council of State. The reason was that, according to the Council of State, the rights of the defence had been violated during the disciplinary proceedings on the basis of the language and lack of language skills of a number of members of the police college. This was not a question of civil servants, but of political managers with an executive mandate who sit in the police colleges. A police college of a multi-municipal zone is a regional service according to the language law in administrative matters. According to Article 35 (1) of that Law in administrative matters, those services are therefore subject to the same rules as those applicable to the local services of Brussels-Capital. According to Article 17 (1) of the Language Act, such rules are as follows: "In its internal services, every local service uses Dutch or French, without recourse to translators. If the case concerns an official of the service, the language of his examination shall be used. In other words, in cases concerning officials, in this case police officers, the language of that official must be used. This presupposes that the members of the police college, made up of officials but also political managers with an executive mandate, should also be Dutch and French powerful. The language law is also clear about the proof that they are powerful in the language. In this connection, I refer to Article 53: "The permanent secretary of recruitment is only competent to provide evidence of the linguistic knowledge required by law of 2 August 1963. In accordance with the language law, all members of the Brussels Police Colleges must therefore be bilingual when dealing with civil servants' files. They must have proved their bilinguality through an examination. That certainly applies when it comes to disciplinary records. The Council of State was very clear on this point and rightly states that the rights of defence are a fundamental guarantee in the disciplinary procedure. There is therefore clearly a serious problem, in view of the various destructions by the Council of State of disciplinary penalties imposed. That is why, constructive as we are, we have considered a number of possible solutions to address the problem. One could follow a suggestion from the judgments of the Council of State and make an interpreter available to draw up all documents of the file in two languages and also provide for a translator. However, that does not seem to us to be the ideal solution. The Council of State is very lenient in its assessment, as this undermines the language law which clearly states that there should be no recourse to translators and interpreters. The legislator's will is that the bilingualism of the service should be ensured by the bilingualism of the officials, in this case also by those bilingual executives. One possible solution is to avoid the disciplinary procedure and other matters relating to these officials from the police colleges and to entrust them to another body, but this obviously does nothing against the core of the problem. The most logical solution is to explicitly state that all members of the police college must have a sufficient knowledge of the two languages and have also proven this by taking a language examination at Selor. I do not see any obstacle to this possibility, nor do I see it as political man daters, because these are executive mandates and not elected mandates. There may be other possibilities. Minister, in any case, I would have liked to know how many disciplinary decisions taken by the Brussels police colleges were destroyed by the Council of State on these grounds? Do you recognize there's a problem? What solution do you wish to provide? Are you opting for any of the possible solutions I have outlined or for any other solution?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic053x.u36	Thank you for your questions, Mrs Pas. As far as the number of destructions is concerned, apparently it surprises me also a little bit... the Council of State does not register them in that way. I must therefore remain guilty of the answer to that very precise question. With regard to your second question, I believe that the police areas in question should comply with the case law of the Council of State and therefore, in their disciplinary action, should organise themselves in such a way that they respect them. The coalition agreement states: "The disciplinary act is simplified and modernised. The role of the mayor in this is limited. You know the mayor's doing the final assessment today. He must, sometimes far from the facts, make the final decision on disciplinary sanctions in certain disciplinary cases. I am, of course, going to take this objective of the coalition agreement to heart. One of the possibilities is to extend the role of the already existing Disciplinary Board of the Integrated Police from an advisory power to a decision-making power. This is thus counted at a higher level. Frankly, however, we need to look at this further. In any case, I will take the case law of the Council of State into account in this reflection exercise and ensure that the problems you raise are taken into account in the revision of the disciplinary law. However, we have only left for three months and not everything is already settled in those first three months.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic053x.u37	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. The simplification of the disciplinary law is, of course, a matter of course. However, I do not know to what extent the problem I raise can only be addressed by amending the disciplinary law. The guarantees for the defence are not enough if the language of those who are to appear is not powerful. I do not know to what extent this can be dealt with only with an amendment to the Disciplinary Law and whether it will require a change to the language law. I'm glad you want to take this with you. I will give you a further boost, a motion of recommendation which certainly seeks to take the necessary measures. At the heart of the matter is that, as long as they have to decide, the executive officers in the police colleges must know both languages and be able to prove that knowledge and pass an examination at Selor. Mr President, I would like to make a motion for a recommendation to deal with this.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic053x.u38	At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Barbara Pas and Mr Jan Penris and reads as follows: The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mrs Barbara Pas and the reply of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Security and Home Affairs, in charge of Great Cities and the Government of the Buildings, - having regard to the recent judgments of the Council of State in which disciplinary sanctions against Brussels police officers were annulled on the basis of the language used in the disciplinary proceedings; - having regard to Articles 35, § 1, 17, § 1 and 53 of the Language Law in administrative matters, - whereas the current language arrangements state that translators should not be called upon in such cases; - whereas this implies that the police colleges should consist not only of bilingual officials but also of bilingual executive staff; - whereas the language law in administrative matters is a law of public order; - whereas it is important to ensure the necessary legal certainty as regards disciplinary sanctions against Brussels police officers, in particular as regards language, asks the Minister take the necessary measures to ensure that the Brussels Police Colleges are composed exclusively by officials and executive officers who have sufficient knowledge of Dutch and French, proven by a language examination for Selor ' A motion for recommendation was tabled by Ms. Barbara Pas and Mr. Jan Penris and reads as follows: The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Mrs Barbara Pas and the response of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Security and Interior, responsible for the Grand Cities and the Régie des Bâtiments, - having regard to the recent decisions of the Council of State annulling the disciplinary sanctions imposed on Brussels police officers on the basis of the use of languages during the disciplinary proceedings; - having regard to Articles 35(1), 17(1) and 53 of the Law on the use of languages in administrative matters; - Whereas the current language regime does not permit the use of translators in such cases; - Whereas this implies that police colleges are composed not only of bilingual officials, but also of bilingual executive officers; Whereas the Law on the Use of Languages in Administrative Matters is a law of public order; - Whereas it is important to ensure the legal certainty required with regard to disciplinary sanctions against Brussels police officers, in particular with regard to the use of languages, asks the Minister to take the necessary measures to ensure that the Brussels police colleges are composed exclusively of officials and executive representatives with sufficient knowledge of Dutch and French certified by a language examination of the Selor." A simple motion was tabled by Mr Koen Metsu. A simple motion was tabled by Mr. Koen Metsu. Motions for resolutions will be voted on at a later date b. The meeting's over. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic053x.u39	Minister, we have heard that Olivier Maingain, the mayor of St Lambrechts-Woluwe, has decided to produce and distribute the municipal information sheet in a monolingual manner from this month on. There will therefore be a Dutch version for the Dutch-speaking inhabitants, and a French version for the French-speaking inhabitants. I have a number of questions to ask. The provisions of the language law on administrative matters, which I have already mentioned before today, and also the settled case law of the Standing Committee on Language Control, say that municipal publications are messages and communications to the public. Thus, for the Brussels municipalities, Article 18 of the language legislation applies, which states that the local services located in Brussels-Capital must make the messages and communications intended for the public in Dutch and French. My question is whether this can be reconciled with the initiative of the mayor of St Lambrechts-Woluwe, and whether the information sheet can be divided into a version in any language? Specifically, is Mr Maingain's initiative compatible with the provisions of the language law and with the settled case law of the Standing Committee on Language Monitoring? A practical problem here is that the municipal administration can split up the monolingual publications only if it uses data from the civil status for that purpose. It needs information on the linguistic capacity of each person concerned. What official information does the municipality have at its disposal? In what way can the municipality make use of information on the linguistic competence of its inhabitants for the dissemination of these pages? If the answer to one of my two questions is that it does not comply with current legislation, is my question, of course, whether you will take measures to put an end to it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic053x.u40	As regards your first question, Mrs Pas, pursuant to Article 18 of the Law on the use of languages in administrative matters coordinated with the Royal Decree of 18 July 1966 and according to the settled case law of the Standing Committee on Linguistic Supervision, local authorities such as local authorities established in Brussels-Capital, should publish anything that can be considered as a communication to the public, in Dutch and French. The same applies to the articles issued by managers or municipal staff. That is in accordance with the opinion of the Permanent Committee of 1 September 1993. The words "in Dutch" and "in French" should be interpreted in such a way that all texts are incorporated in their entirety and simultaneously into the document concerned, on the basis of strict equality, both in terms of content and font. I come to your second and third questions. According to the special law of 8 August 1980 reforming the institutions, the Regions are responsible for the ordinary administrative supervision of compliance with administrative language legislation. In this case, therefore, the government of the Brussels-Capital Region is once again competent. I have no authority to do anything about it. However, I wanted to make it clear that it is also a good thing that this is included in the report on how to interpret these matters. So it is up to the local authorities, perhaps they didn't know how the law works, but then they know it clearly now, and in this case, to the Brussels Government to supervise it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic053x.u41	Thank you, Minister, for your clarification of that interpretation, because that was indeed the essence of my question. It must be in Dutch and in French. It is not enough, therefore, to provide a separate Dutch and French version, as apparently is planned. As far as my third question is concerned, you confirm that the initiative is not in conformity with the language law. Measures must therefore be taken to stop the initiative or at least to inform the person concerned that the initiative is not in conformity with language legislation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic053x.u42	Minister, we have already discussed this during the discussion of your policy paper and, of course, I passed on the answer you gave at that time. In your reply, you referred to the emergency button on the ASTRID radioisotopes. However, this is not a preventive measure. The paramedics feel that this is an inadequate response given the problems they often face. A survey shows that seven out of ten ambulances questioned become victims of physical violence while performing their job. At the moment when assistance is requested through ASTRID, the ambulanceman is usually already in a very problematic situation, which makes it too late. The assessment of the situation on receipt of the original emergency call is of prime importance. It is the calltaker who will judge whether the information should pass to the police, and that is sometimes problematic. The ministerial circular on the transmission of calls and information of 100 and 101 states: "It is also the police who will carry out an assessment of whether or not it is going on the spot." There is therefore no obligation for the police to answer the calltaker's question. The circular continues: "Only when the HC 100 or the on-site emergency services explicitly request police assistance will by definition be on the spot." There are testimonies from paramedics who say that even after such a question there will be no police assistance, not because one does not want to, but because there are no patrols available. In addition, ambulances also criticize the Iijst of dangers in which the 101 plant has to be notified. According to the Union For Flemish Ambulancers, that list is obsolete. For example, in category 1 there is no psychiatry at all and there is no attempt to commit suicide without a weapon in that category, and these are just two things that the paramedics are often confronted with. Minister, I would like an answer to the following questions. Firstly, given the criticism of the paramedics, can their question be anticipated? Can the procedure described in the Ministerial circular, which makes it impossible to act immediately, be adjusted? Can the list of hazards requiring notification of the 101 plant be revised? After all, that list is clearly out of date. Can these particular dangers be included? Can the paramedics, the calltakers and the police be consulted to see how their safety can be guaranteed?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic053x.u43	Mrs Temmerman, I can no longer anticipate the problem because it already exists; it is real. You put the finger on the wound. I take the comments made by the Union for Flemish Ambulancers to heart. We have tried, through an internal investigation, to find out what can be done to ensure the physical protection of the paramedics. I have asked the Board of Management 112 to organise a consultation with their fellow officers of the Federal Police and the Public Health Office. That investigation is ongoing and I cannot answer the specific questions at this time. However, I am aware of the problem and we will come up with measures in this area. The meeting's started. I also asked in that study to further refine and adapt the list of hazards, in which the CIC 101 should be notified. I will keep the committee informed of the evolution of this investigation. There is currently a tripartite meeting with Home Affairs, Health and the police.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic053x.u44	Mr. Secretary, do you have a timing?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic053x.u45	It's hard to give timing.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic053x.u46	I'm only asking to know when I'm going to have to question you again.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic053x.u47	My experience is that, if I give a date now, you will ask a new question on that date and probably I will need a few more weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic053x.u48	Can you give me an order of magnitude?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic053x.u49	In the course of 2015 it should be possible. The problem is too important, which is also emphasised by the stakeholders. There are poignant examples, which I cannot ignore. We have to do something about it. Take it from me that it is one of the things that we are working on as a matter of priority. However, I will not give a date now. However, ask the question regularly.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic053x.u50	That's what I was gonna say. I'll ask you the question myself.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic053x.u51	May I suggest that you put your question in writing? We commit ourselves to answering written questions quickly, so that we should not unnecessarily burden the committee meeting with oral questions with facts that we really have nothing to do with. However, I undertake to reply quickly in writing so that we can limit the oral questions to what they serve.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic053x.u52	I agree. I'll do that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic053x.u53	Mr President, Minister, this too is a follow-up question to the questions raised during the discussion of your policy paper. I don't have to explain the problem of the hailstorm. There appears to be a problem in dealing with whether or not this event will be recognised as a disaster, mainly through the transfer of jurisdiction to the regions. There is currently no staff to handle the claims files. This leads to the victims remaining in the cold. At present, almost all costs have been paid by those who have suffered the damage, but they are concerned by the uncertainty as to whether the hailstorm will be recognised as a disaster and whether they will be able to rely on the Rampen Fund for the damage suffered. Mr President, has the Council of Ministers taken a decision on the recognition of the Pentecost as a disaster? What solutions can be provided for the handling of the files? Of course, those concerned cannot be the victims of the division of powers. Do you already have a look at the possible refund? Do you know about other disasters that are still waiting for recognition and where there is the same problem of delegation of powers?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic053x.u54	Mr President, Mrs Temmerman, I would like to make a number of specific points, after which I will give another thought. With regard to the administrative section of the Federal Department of the Interior, the work is done. The file for the recognition of the hailstorm is ready. The administration has given a positive opinion, in the sense that this is an effective disaster. We are still waiting for the advice of the Finance Inspector. The FPS Finance is the manager of the Rampenfonds. As soon as that advice is given, it can be discussed with the Council of Ministers. If you want to know the state of play on this matter, you should address my colleague, Minister Van Overtveldt. In any case, if that opinion comes in, it will be submitted to the Council of Ministers. As far as treatment is concerned, it is currently impossible to set a date. Following approval by the Council of Ministers, the publication is published in the Belgian Official Journal. That's the procedure. All files that have entered the governor's office will be transferred to the Home Office, which will transfer the files to the FPS Finance after checking. That's the procedure. These are about 21 000 files. If the storm had come a few weeks later, it was now a matter for the Regions. Twenty-one thousand files must be dealt with while staff have been transferred. The treatment and the payout will therefore be time-consuming. After the transfer, three people were employed. I have a solution for this which I believe is rather creative, but I have not yet received the final approval for it. If these files are to be handled by three people, they will be working on them for years. This is, of course, unacceptable to the victims. I have a solution and I hope it will be implemented. However, since this is not yet complete, I shall not go into it further. As for your other question, in addition to the hailstorm, there are 10 other disasters that need to be recognized federally. However, they are fortunately of a much smaller order of magnitude. Let me give you an example. There was strong wind on 3 and 4 January 2014 and that led to 396 damage files. On 20 October 2013 there was a tornado that produced 42 files. Those are the biggest of those ten files. The aim is to set the ten smaller and major disasters at one and the same Council of Ministers for the recognition of the 11 disasters. I am aware that this must be dealt with within a reasonable time. If three people have to deal with 21 000 dossiers, then we have to find other solutions. I have one in mind and I will inform you as soon as it is approved by the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic053x.u55	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. One does not need to be a mathematical genius to see that three people cannot handle 21 000 files. That was also the great fear of the victims, that this would be put on the long track and that they would become the game of the various powers. I hope that your creative solution can be implemented quickly and that a prospect is offered to those involved, even if it is later. Now they are in the dark. In particular, they fear that the transfer of powers will lead them to fall between shore and ship. You will see that it is not always good to pass things on to other governments. Sometimes that's useful...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic053x.u56	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic053x.u57	Maybe it'll be more efficient if everything is handled at once, instead of one case of sister and the other like that. After all, this is going to be a bit of a problem for our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic053x.u58	We can also, of course, ask for the disasters to be postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic053x.u59	Mr Minister, this is a rather short question. The problem of crime in the border region with France is well known. There would seem to be an increase in border crime there as well. The federal government announced at the end of last year that several police zones were getting more money to fight that crime, but more is needed. All stakeholders agree that cooperation between the various services across borders is crucial to reducing border crime. In early 2013, the then French and Belgian governments concluded an agreement on a common and determined approach to border crime. However, that agreement would not have entered into force. Reference is made to the French Parliament, which would not have ratified it. That is why I have the following questions for you. Firstly, do you have any idea why this ratification has not yet taken place? Secondly, have you already contacted your French colleague in order to urge him to put that right quickly? If so, what did this result in? If not, what else do you intend to do about it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic053x.u60	Mr Van Hecke, on your first question, I can say that the French parliamentary procedure for ratifying the Tournai II agreement is under way. As is often the case with parliamentary ratification of intergovernmental agreements, this also takes a long time and is still waiting for the procedure to be completed. Unfortunately, the agreement of Tournai II is no exception to that rule. The situation in France is as follows. The draft law for the ratification of that agreement has been tabled in the Assemblée nationale, so the text lies before your French colleagues. With us, on the Belgian side, the treaty, as you know, was ratified in April 2014, in the previous legislature. I raised the issue during my previous meeting with my colleague Mr Cazeneuve, the French Minister for the Interior. This was done in the margins of the EU Interior Council on 5 December 2014. The French Minister for the Interior has indicated that he will take this dossier to heart and follow it up. We are not buying anything for that, of course, but I have a new contact with him in Paris in February. Discussions are ongoing in the preparation of this contact. If we meet in February, I want him to be able to give me a timing of when that agreement will pass through the Assembly. So I am sure I will follow that up, and I can say that, given the events of the last week, relations with Mr Cazeneuve have evolved from previous formal to slightly more personal. I am convinced that we will be able to get an answer to that quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic053x.u61	Minister, we also know that sometimes it can take a long time. It is, however, a problem which has existed for a long time, because the French too have been familiar with the problem for a long time. Sometimes we get the feeling that they are a little reluctant and do not want to move quickly on the matter. However, I keep that feeling to myself. It is important that we continue to insist that the dossier progresses quickly. Of course, Parliament must also follow the procedure in France. We should not interfere with that. However, it has to move forward. The events of the past few days show that cooperation across borders is important. Everyone has the mouths of cooperation and of data exchange. Now, here is a concrete text which can improve cross-border cooperation. It is also very important that France ratifys it very quickly. I therefore wish you every success in your discussions over the coming weeks and months.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic053x.u62	Mr President, this is a question that was postponed last week. It is not a copy of Mr Koen Metsu's question, which was put in plenary last week. Minister, every month about ten boys leave for Syria to participate in the armed conflict in Syria and Iraq. On January 1st, you announced a Counterpropaganda Action to discourage potential fighters from moving to these conflict zones. It is worth noting that this is done on demand and with the support of Europe and the example of Britain. You said in your communication that you would like to call on local Muslim communities because these people have the best counter-arguments and can develop them. A special service would track down the messages of radical Muslims, or call upon them to fight in Syria or Iraq, offering counter messages. I have looked it up and the story of a counter-conflict is also reflected in your predecessor's prevention plan, Mrs Milquet. I have a number of specific questions. How do you interact with the local Muslim communities? Which national and/or foreign representatives do you address? This project comes at the request of Europe. I assume that other countries, faced with similar problems, will also want to make use of these messages. Will you get in touch with them and how exactly will this happen? Will you use a Twitter or Facebook account or other channels for this? On what time do you want this operational? In what languages will these counter messages be drawn up? How large is the group of people who will work on it? Is the execution of this action with your cabinet or the administration? What department of the administration will be used for this purpose? In your view, can this also be included by an existing service or should a separate service be set up for this purpose? I would also like to make a comment, Minister. I think it is good that we are developing a counter-contest on the Internet and that there will be counter-propaganda, but I also think it is important to go back to the essence and make agreements with Google, Facebook and other companies to limit or ban hate sites. In this way one can tackle the problem at the root so that counterpropaganda or an opposite is no longer necessary. I think this is important in this story. I'll give you this as a suggestion. I believe you should sit with representatives of Google, Facebook, Twitter and others, to see if they can't be searched for hate sites so that they can then be contained.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic053x.u63	Mr President, Mr Yüksel, I shall begin by addressing the last point. On Sunday, with those sitting around the table in Paris, the agreement was made that the United States will take the initiative to sit around the table with the European countries concerned. The large internet sites as listed by you should participate in those calls. This problem is best addressed at the highest level of these companies. After all, what impact does it have if I do something with the Belgian representative? The United States and the European Union will talk to these companies at the highest level in February to see if we can tackle this phenomenon at its root. That seems to me to be the right approach. If there is no such approach, we should take an initiative at Belgian level, which seems to me to be less effective. I come to your other questions. Let me give you the right context. On 19 December 2014, the Council of Ministers agreed that Belgium would lead a European project on strategic communication on radicalism. We have accepted the mandate to make a proposal to the European Member States on how to implement it. This project will focus on preventing radical messages from reaching vulnerable groups, strengthening an opposition from civil society or targeted communication with vulnerable young people. A number of questions that you rightly ask have not been answered today. We must formulate this project and address it at European level. On Thursday and Friday, the people of the United Kingdom, where such an office already exists, will come to Brussels. On Saturday I am going to visit that agency myself and on Monday I have an appointment with my colleague in the United Kingdom to learn how to deal with the problem and to transform those solutions into a proposal for the European Member States. The hope is that the European Commission will accept the project and put the necessary funds in place. The funds are provided for and I have to make a project proposal based on what is being done in the United Kingdom. It goes without saying that the Communities have an important role to play in drawing up such a strategy. Tomorrow afternoon at 2:00 PM, there will be an appointment with the religious leaders of recognized religions and organised liberalism. I will ask the representative of the Muslim community to look into the appropriate associations or associations in the Muslim world to set up such a project. I'll have that proposal come from the Muslim community, because who am I to determine that? The European project is coordinated by the administration, in particular the Home Office, and within the General Directorate for Security and Prevention. The Belgian dimension of the project will undoubtedly require a strengthening of the current framework within this management, so that the acquired knowledge and advice can also be fully translated in collaboration with all partners. So this is still a task for the administration, not for the cabinet, although we will, of course, keep an eye on it to see that progress is made. It is therefore the administration that takes care of the Belgian leg of this project.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic053x.u64	Minister, I am pleased that you want to look at the problem of hateful sites together with European and American ministers. That's the right approach. As far as the Counterpropaganda Action itself is concerned, it is a good thing that Belgium is given that mandate. We must move towards a common European approach. After all, it makes no sense to take certain steps in Belgium, because if the network is not closed, we mop up with the crane open. It is also a good thing that you, together with the Prime Minister, are watching its implementation together with the Muslim community. It is incredibly important that she be involved in this project. On the basis of my contacts, I can tell you that they strongly support the withdrawal of hateful messages and radicalisation. So you are following the right path. I look forward to the further development of the project and to the experience of your colleagues and the UK office.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic053x.u65	Minister, a few weeks ago we were shocked that a drone could fly over the Doel nuclear power station. I come from an engineering family and was the black sheep in the family. I didn't have enough sense and I didn't have a calling. So I went to law school. Et pire que ça, I ended up in politics. Well, people who know better than I do tell me that even if an aircraft crashes into the target nuclear power plant, it would have little or no effect on safety in the immediate vicinity. So flying over the drone was probably a symbolic act. Mr Minister, perhaps you can tell me between your nose and your lips whether you know who might have been the possible driver of the drone incident. I did not include that question in my question, but you may know more about it. A drone above the target nuclear power station is not a danger to the safety of the nuclear power station there, nor to public health as such. A drone in its immediate vicinity, I am thinking of the large chemical clusters that lie around Doel, however, might be a danger. Someone who has bad intentions and knows where to abuse a drone could cause an incident with that drone that would benefit none of us. Mr President, I may have misread my question. It was about the industrial clusters in Flanders. However, there are also industrial clusters in Wallonia. I still don't realize I'm a federal MP. Auch in den Deutschsprachigen Gebiten unseren Landes gibt es vielleicht Risikogebiten Minister, what is your government's policy in the Federal State of Belgium in general in relation to drones that can be used by people with bad intentions over areas at risk and certainly over chemical risk areas?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic053x.u66	Mr Penris, since 14 September, drones have been spotted above most nuclear power stations in France. This has clearly given rise to awareness of the problem. In France, too, there is no certainty at present as to the identity of the commanders, and so is the one drone that flew over the Doel nuclear power station in our country. The FANC believes that flights do not present a real danger, so far. We believe more in the hypothesis of antinuclear militants and in some cases of copycats, who want to show how vulnerable that is. On 16 November Greenpeace sent a report to the French Parliament to demonstrate the weaknesses in airspace security over French nuclear power plants. The movement recently sent a copy of the report to the Belgian authorities. That one drone in Belgium was detected and immediately all the flashing lights started. So the security systems worked. We believe that there are currently no concrete threats to these power stations, either terrorist or extremist. But we must not close our eyes to the possible evolution, which can become a real problem in the future. I'll give you some advantages or disadvantages of the drones. They are not expensive, the smallest action group can easily afford them. They are programmable and can reach high speeds. Moreover, due to the built-in GPS, they are very precise and difficult to detect and destroy, and they offer virtually anonymity to the pilots. However, the cargo they can carry remains very limited. Such a drone can only transport a few hundred grams, but if it is explosives, it can do damage. In relation to the threat to the nuclear sector in Belgium, we maintain at current level 2, which is an average level of terrorist threat. We are following things closely, and certainly technological developments in this area. The FANC is very alert to this. But there is no reason to raise the level of terror.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic053x.u67	Minister, I expected your answer. I am not concerned about the nuclear sector either, but about chemical companies, where someone with bad intentions with a targeted small charge fired by a drone can do a lot of damage. In France there have already been a few incidents with people who have done things on the workplace that are not allowed. You yourself say that anonymous pilots in that sector can do even more damage. I have every confidence in our nuclear installations, but I asked you, as Minister of the Interior, how you deal with the risk of drones over chemical clusters, not only in Flanders, but throughout Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic053x.u68	We have made police officers as aware of the problem as there is at the FANC. The case is being followed. At present, the threat level remains at 2. There is not much reason yet, but the services are alert to this possibility of attacks. We continue to monitor matters very closely, because I share your concern.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic053x.u69	Debates of the European Parliament Question No 1157 by Mrs Dumery will be converted into a written question, as will Question No 1157 by Mrs Dury. 837 by Mr Demon.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic053x.u70	Minister, last year we achieved a sad record with 3.1 million flash fines. While the Belgian Road Safety Institute, the police and the courts are crying out for even more road safety, it is becoming increasingly difficult to prosecute offenders. In our country, there are serious differences in flash policy against speed offenders. In 2013, 724 road deaths were to be regretted. The objective is to halve the number of road deaths by 2020. It's numbers that are still high. That is why I do not think it is possible for police areas to flirt with tolerance limits as I have heard. For example, one area for speeds from 7 km per hour flashes too much and the other from 20 km per hour and more. Is it true that some zones differ from the standard deviation standard for speed checks? What margin can be used? Based on what regulations will the calibration of the flashes be determined?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic053x.u71	Thank you, Mr Demon, for your question. With regard to speed checks, the police follow the prosecution policy of the local prosecutors. It is the prosecutors who give their directives to the police forces in this context. There may also be directives of a temporary nature, for example in the event of a large popular movement, but that is not the essence of the matter. However, the police do not apply any deviations to the standard on their own initiative. The standards are imposed by the public prosecutors. The police themselves do not apply any deviation to that. Within the local zones, the policy is defined and discussed in the zonal security councils, in accordance with the octopus model. It is, of course, important, in the context of the behavioural influence of enforcement, to maintain a consistent policy in which the chances of taking and punishing each other are followed. It is quite clear: the police are carrying out what they are being imposed on them by the public prosecutors. What margin can be applied? The margins are laid down in the guidelines of the College of Attorneys General, which are operationalised by each parish and can thus be different per district. I have my doubts about that, too, but that is the law at the moment. The calibration of the flashes is carried out in accordance with the KB of 12 October 2010. It regulates the approval, calibration and installation of measuring devices used to monitor compliance with the law on road traffic police and its implementing decisions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic053x.u72	I am pleased to hear that you yourself have reservations about one district being allowed to do something different than the other. I do not know if we can get your support for this, but perhaps we should do some legislative work so that the work is no longer done with the wet finger. If I am well informed, the route control at the E40 Brussels-Ostend between Wetteren and Erpe-Mere has stopped for a few months, just because there were no people to fix the fines. That's a bit of a flagrant thing, isn't it? I am glad that you have reservations about this.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic053x.u73	You give me an idea, Mr Demon, because I do that route a few times every day.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic053x.u74	Debates of the European Parliament 1169 by Mrs Jadin has been postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic053x.u75	Mr President, Minister, this is my last question on language legislation for today and it concerns infringements by public companies. It would not be the first time that bpost, Belgacom, the SNCB Group and others have violated language legislation. Then what happens in practice? If individuals feel harmed by their rights, they may lodge a complaint with the Standing Committee on Linguistic Supervision, but the opinions of this committee are not binding, as you know. The companies receiving such advice are not obliged to do anything. For example, the strict application of language legislation often remains dead letter. Nor is this a new problem. During the previous legislature, colleagues from your party, including current Minister Steven Vandeput, tabled a bill to enforce the strict application of language legislation in public companies. They suggested that the companies concerned should be regularly evaluated on the basis of objective criteria and that of fineing offenders by reducing public funding. Minister, are you aware of language violations in public companies? Have you taken initiatives to convert the legislative proposal from the previous legislature into a draft law so that there is an instrument available to deal with the language offenders in public enterprises?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic053x.u76	Mr President, Mrs Pas, public undertakings do not fall within my competence. Each minister is responsible for the application of the law on the use of languages in administrative matters in his or her domain. I think you should ask my three fellow Members who are responsible for public undertakings, Minister Galant for SNCB and Belgocontrol, Minister De Croo and Minister Jamar for the National Lottery. The public undertakings are therefore divided among these three fellow-citizens. I believe that you should ask them questions concerning the application of the law on the use of languages in administrative matters.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic053x.u77	Minister, I will certainly do that. I will certainly check with them whether there are any language violations in these state-owned companies. However, language legislation falls within your competence and I had a specific question about an amendment as in your party's legislative proposal from the previous legislature. Since you have not said a word about this, I can assume that this will be thrown into the Community's well until 2019.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic053x.u78	Minister, I belong to the Federal Police Department's central drugs department, which has for some time been concerned about the human resources problems there. Staff leaving would no longer be replaced. However, there is a very high workload in that service. I have been informed that parts of that service, in the context of a reorganisation of the federal police, would disappear. I understand that service currently consists of four parts. Firstly, there is the Dispatching with four people who handle all the questions and information related to drugs. Secondly, there is the production desk with five people who succeeds the problem of cannabis and synthetic drugs. Thirdly, there is the Trafiek desk with three persons responsible for international drug trafficking. Finally, there is the Narcotourism desk with two people dealing. I understand that the Dispatching desk and the desk narcotourism would be completely shut down. I would have liked to have heard from you whether that information is correct, because if it is correct, I find that very strange. The National Security Plan identifies as priority forms of crime the import and export of cocaine, production and smuggling of synthetic drugs and cannabis and drug dealing. The government agreement sets the target that possession of drugs is prohibited and that there will be no tolerance policy for the use of drugs in public space. Mr. Secretary, is it true that the staff in the Federal Police Office are not being replaced? If so, is this related to a reorganisation? Can you give an overview of how the workforce has evolved lately? Is it true that two parts of that service, the desks Dispatching and Narcotourism, would completely disappear? If that's true, what's the motivation? This is contrary to the intentions contained in the coalition agreement. Then who will take over the duties of those desks? Will this be as effective as it is now? Finally, what does the reorganisation of the service look like? What does this mean from the point of view of employment? How is this communicated to the staff? After all, we are getting reports from worried staff.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic053x.u79	Mrs Pas, first there is a general reflection from my experience in business, where I have done a lot of reorganisations. The police are now also reorganising. One can communicate as much as one wants, people always remember or see the negative messages and enlarge them. The positive perspective offered is rather quickly forgotten. That is human and normal, and it is noticed in every process of change. I think this is a bit of a discussion here, too. That's a general thought. As far as your specific questions are concerned, I deny in all keys that the staff in the Central Board of Drugs is no longer being replaced. That is not the case. Those vacancies will be opened up and those people will be replaced. However, at the moment I do not have the exact figures of staff turnover, but in general I can say that in this important problem someone who is leaving is being replaced. As far as your second question is concerned, you are right to say that if it were true that those two desks would disappear, which would be contrary to policy intentions. That is not the case either. As regards the optimisation of police services, and in particular the optimisation within the federal judicial police, four boards, including those two desks, were merged at central level. They were not removed, but there is more unity of structure. It concerns the Executive Boards Crime against Persons, Crime against Goods, Organised Crime and Economic and Financial Crime. When I sum up those four, you will feel that if those are four different boards, there are many interactions that are lost by splitting up into different boards. These four boards, all of which deal with organised crime, are merged into a single management, namely the central management of the fight against serious and organised crime. I think this is a good evolution. The final structure of that board is still on the drawing board, but the direction of policy is determined. As far as your third question is concerned, I have just told you that there is still work to be done on the reorganisation of that service. Only after they have been approved by the Federal Police Executive Committee will there be communication to both the police authorities and the external partners of the federal police and staff. We're gonna round it all up first and then we're gonna follow up on communication. However, the police are a reorganisational organisation and meetings with the heads of department are organized on a regular basis by the Directorate-General to inform them of the state of play. There were meetings on 26 June and 21 October. The meeting of 21 October, at which a state of play was held, was for the entire staff and concerned the ongoing process of change. Those communication moments are coming back on a regular basis. We are waiting for the plans of the drawing board to be completed and laid down at the federal police level. As for your fourth question, in the 2012-2015 security plan, a whole series of phenomena are priorities: thefts, violence in public spaces; drugs, in particular imports and exports of cocaine, production and smuggling of synthetic drugs and cannabis and selling drugs, illegal gun scam, terrorism, etc. The fact that a phenomenon is a priority does not exclude that the central service where the phenomenon is followed is part of the services for which an optimization exercise is carried out within the police forces, especially the objective of this optimisation is to achieve better the objectives imposed on the police. The concrete example concerns the four executives who are all involved in organised crime. You can blame me for a reorganisation in this area, which is a policy priority. However, I do not see any contradiction in that. On the contrary, I see a strengthening of the policy vision. I do not believe that organised crime can be pushed into a particular area. There are so many links in this area that it is better to bring this under one management and that is what we are doing.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic053x.u80	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I am reassured to a large extent that some of the signals that have reached us are not correct. You tell us that outgoing staff will indeed be replaced. The reorganisation also does not lose any desks, which would remove the priorities. I can only emphasise the importance of communication with the staff. After all, there is a great deal of concern about any reorganisation. I think it is very important to continue the fight against drugs, in addition to keeping the staff involved regularly informed of the state of play. Any reorganisation you carry out in this respect must not be at the expense of staff or resources. I understand from your reply that this is certainly not the case, for which I am grateful.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic053x.u81	Mr. President, Minister, in the newspaper L'Écho of August 30, 2014, the Director General of the Federal Nuclear Control Agency (AFCN) stated: "The Doel 1 and 2 extension file has been frozen. It would take two or three years to prepare for this extension." We are talking about August without any government decision. Questioned by me on 6 January in the Committee on the Economy, Mrs Marghem, Minister of Energy, referred me to you in view of your expertise in relation to AFCN. That's why I'm here to ask you the question. Do you have any evidence to contradict Mr.Bens's remarks that lead to the possible extension of Doel 1 certainly not being possible until 2017-2018, given the two or three years needed?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic053x.u82	Mr. Nollet, already last September, at a time when negotiations on government formation were still in full swing, the AFCN had communicated on its website its position on a possible extension of the life of the Doel 1 and 2 nuclear power plants. The operation of a nuclear power plant takes place in successive phases of about 10 years, but does not require a new formal authorisation every 10 years. At the end of each ten-year period, the facility undergoes an in-depth revision based on the ageing of its components, the constant technological evolution and the experience gained at international level on similar installations since the last revision. The review concludes with an investment programme, which needs to be implemented to ensure that the plant continues to operate at a high and up-to-date level of safety over the next ten years. This method allows, in a way, the plant to evolve gradually and comply with existing security requirements. The preparation and implementation of the investment programme usually takes place over several successive shutdown periods of the plant and several years. This method reconciles the implementation of security changes with the operation of the facility. This process is therefore not accompanied by any strict or abrupt deadline, the non-compliance of which would radically impede the continued operation of the plant. The AFCN required that this normal process be followed in the event of an extension of Doel 1 and 2's life, which means that the extension will cover an operating period of at least 10 years, so that the necessary security investments can be prepared and carried out. Since the end of 2009, AFCN had begun work on preparations for the fourth 10-year review of Doel 1 and 2 security. Following the decision of the previous government with the amendment of the Nuclear Release Act 2003, the file had been frozen and AFCN had prepared the final shutdown and dismantling of the facilities. Today, the LTO file returns to the table and the file of the dismantling is placed in the fridge. The action plan drawn up for all Belgian and European power stations following the Fukushima disaster following the resistance tests should also be taken into account. With regard to Doel 1 and 2, significant additional amendments had been foreseen in addition to those of the fourth 10-year review. In view of the imminent closure of these two plants, AFCN had agreed that these actions should not be implemented. However, now that the operation of the plant is being extended, the PSAN is reconsidering its decision. The preparation of this work will last two to three years. Mr Bens's comments in the press must be seen in this context. They are in no way contrary to the government's decision to extend the life of Doel 1 and 2 plants. In any event, the PSAN does not require a multi-year shutdown, as the honourable member suggests, in order to proceed with the planned security investments in advance.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic053x.u83	Minister, I understand that this is not contrary to the government's decision. I don't think I said it, even if I don't share that decision. You confirm that it will take two or three years to prepare for this extension. I also hear that this is not a strict deadline, it will depend on the work to be done. Nevertheless, the length of time required to prepare for the two- or three-year extension is estimated. This means that the availability of Doel 1 will not be effective for the next two winters. I will address the Minister of Energy on this issue, but this will not help reduce the risk of being relieved due to the lack of energy supply. Presenting this extension as a partial solution to the problem of lack and the risk of discharge is not correct given the two or three years that you have just confirmed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic053x.u84	Mr Nollet, this work is necessary to extend the life of the plants by 10 years. The power plants will be restarted. Then all these tests will be carried out. Energy supply is also a very important issue. The AFCN, which follows the recommendations to the letter, indicated that actions could be continued but would be necessary to extend the life of the plants. I imagine it will be done from the beginning for months, even years. That's how I interpret things.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic053x.u85	Minister, for my part, I am not trying to interpret. The Director General said in the press that it would take two or three years, which you confirm today. You also say that there may be a way to do part of the work at the same time. I assume, however, that this will not be at the expense of safety and security. The Director General, for his part, said that there would be a period of time during which these plants would not be available. In this case, two or three years, it is not nothing in terms of unavailability in view of the fact that this is presented as a measure to address the risk of shortages. I do not, of course, minimize the latter. On the other hand, in view of this deadline, I do not see this being presented as a solution, even if you tell us that some things could be done at the same time. The deadline was set by the Director General.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic053x.u86	Mr. Chair, Minister, here is a practical question. Inspectors of compulsory education require that the household compositions of the pupils in the various schools be obtained. The Directorates then turn to the parents to provide them with the requested documents. It is sometimes difficult to combine the household compositions of all students. It would therefore be easier for school principals to request, and obtain, these documents directly from the municipal administrations. Minister, is this legally possible? Can school directors themselves request the household compositions of their students from the municipal administrations? Do municipal colleges have the legal opportunity to access these requests? Would it be necessary to have written permission from the parents to obtain this document directly? This is a social phenomenon: parents drop out quite frequently and school directors fail to get all the documents to get in order. I do not share this parental behaviour, but I receive frequent requests to this effect from the school boards in my municipality and I would like to take stock of the legal situation of this phenomenon. I am puzzled by the information I have been able to obtain, and I would like your advice.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic053x.u87	Madam, to be very concrete in answer to your first question: no, school directors cannot request the household compositions of their pupils from the municipal administrations since these directorates already have access to the national register via the SIEL database of pupils maintained by the French Community. According to the principle of single collection, provided for in Article 6 of the Act of 8 August 1983, if a body already has access to the National Register, it may no longer request the information already available to it from the municipal administrations. That's the general rule. This means that your other questions are outdated. I can add that the issue of extracts or certificates to third parties by the municipal college presupposes that the issuance of documents is provided for or authorized by law. The verification of the validity of the application made by the municipal college shall then relate to the indication of the provisions relating to the procedure undertaken and the nature of the information requested, taking into account the grounds on which they are requested. The parent exercising parental authority, whether or not jointly with the other parent, has the right, on behalf of the child, to obtain extracts from the population register relating to the child, including the composition of the household. A household composition can be requested by means of the electronic card of the household reference person via the internet application "my file" and the reference on the website mydossier.rrn.fgov.be. Parents themselves, using the electronic ID card, can find the household composition.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic053x.u88	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Demon's 1200 was postponed. The next item on the agenda is a question from myself, which I ask from the chair.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic053x.u89	Minister, I refer to a decision of the Flemish Government, in particular Article 60 of the Flemish Government's decision of 5 March 2004, which provides for a flat-rate fee for representation expenses to the provincial governors and to the deputy of the governor of the province of Flemish Brabant. In addition to these flat-rate representation costs, there are also costs that can be reimbursed to the governors on the basis of declarations. Following findings in the audit of the accounts of the provinces, the Court of Auditors examined the distribution of the costs incurred by the provincial governors between the federal government, the Flemish and provincial levels. In the 2013 Account Book presented to the Flemish Parliament, the Court of Auditors made the observation that it is often unclear what costs for the province, which are for the Flemish government and which are for the federal government. Apparently, no formal agreements have been made on this. In some provinces, the provincial authorities seem to always pay certain costs borne by the Flemish or federal authorities in other provinces. In addition, the Court of Auditors pointed out that there was an audit of the fees and allowances to staff dating from 2013. This autit showed that the federal government grant for the employees of the provincial governments is arranged at KB of 13 January 1969, which is older than I am. This Royal Decree also continues to be based on the former political organisation of the national government which then had an important role vis-à-vis the provinces. The Court of Auditors therefore considers that this should be updated. Hence my questions. Can you confirm that there are no formal agreements on such keys? Are there any informal agreements that have remained unchanged over the years? If so, which ones are they? Secondly, are there differences between the provinces? If so, which one? Thirdly, how will you respond to the Court of Auditors' proposal to consult with the various authorities at the other levels of policy in order to reach formal agreements on the allocation of costs? Fourthly, are there any plans to update the Royal Decree of 13 January 1969 granting annual allowances to officials and staff attached to the offices of the provincial governors and vice-governor?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic053x.u90	Mr President, I will answer your first two questions. The Royal Decree of 13 January 1969, which I had already been born at that time, regulates the granting of allowances to staff affected by the governor's cabinets. The governors can each allocate an annual amount of EUR 10 398.93 among these staff and each month allocate EUR 437.85 to the driver. These are the amounts in the current index. There are no formal or informal agreements on the granting of these allowances other than those contained in the Royal Decree. As far as your third question is concerned, the allowances provided for in KB are granted to the staff assisting the governor in the performance of his federal duties. So the governor is an official when it comes to his federal duties. In other words, there is no need to discuss this with other policy levels. So it's just a dotation to compensate for his federal duties. To your fourth question, I can answer the following. I also believe that this should be modernised. To give a trivial example, in the KB there is still the province of Brabant and not of the province of Central Brabant.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic053x.u91	Minister, the status and powers of a provincial governor are, of course, very overlapping. You do say that there is no need for formal consultations or agreements, despite the fact that the Court of Auditors says exactly the opposite. Thank you for your answer. I'm looking forward to an update of the KB.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic053x.u92	Questions Nos 1234, 1235 and 1236 by Mr Goffin are converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic053x.u93	Mr President, Minister, over the last few days, there has been almost daily talk of using the military at threat level 3. The coalition agreement states the following with regard to the deployment of the military at an increased level of threat, I quote: "In the event of an increased general level of threat, from level 3, the government may, after consulting the National Security Council and, where appropriate, at the request of a mayor, take the decision to temporarily deploy the army to assist the police and security forces for certain security orders. To this end, synergies shall be developed in cooperation with the police forces, including with a view to the necessary framework and training. Reference is made in particular to the key tasks debate. I have two simple questions. There is constant talk of threat level 3. After last week's attacks, you said that, after analysis by the services, the general threat level was maintained at level 2. What's the difference between levels 2 and 3? When are we gonna talk about level three? I have every respect and understanding for the security services in terms of whether or not to release certain information. Is this related to the deployment of police officers? When can a mayor call in the army's help?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic053x.u94	Mr President, from Level 3, we are talking about serious problems. After the events in Paris, level 2 is dismissed as being nothing. We went to level 2 after the attack on the Jewish Museum and that was not a negligible fact. I am also trying to say that with every contact with the press, when I feel that level 2 is being minimized, because we have been in it for a few months now. At level three, we're talking about a serious threat. The services shall provide for a serious threat if it appears that the threat to the person, group or event that is the subject of the threat is possible and likely. There is then a high degree of probability that if one does nothing, that attack will happen. How is the decision taken to switch from level 2 to level 3? This is done on the basis of an individual analysis case on a case-by-case basis on the probability and ability to do so. What are the factors involved in this? First, there is the reliability of the sources. We already have experience that fortunately not every ominous message is based on a reliable environment. Secondly, there is the fact that the information is confirmed or not, either nationally or internationally. Such matters shall be immediately exchanged with international services. Thirdly, there is the technical feasibility of the threat, sometimes there are fantastic........................................................................................................................................................................... Fourthly, there is the credibility of the intention. For example, have similar threats been made in the past by the same perpetrator or potential offenders? Fifthly, there is the general risk profile. These elements determine whether it is really serious and whether threat level 3 should be taken into account. As far as the police are concerned, it's by law what's to be done at level three. This is not yet the case for the army, but it is an intention in the coalition agreement. Right now, I or my DOD colleague at Level 3 can't just deploy the military. We need to change the legal framework for this. We are currently examining which legislative amendment is sufficient for a protocol between Defence and Home Affairs. That investigation will be completed in the near future, after which we will be able to go to the government with it. I refer to France, where 10 000 soldiers are currently being deployed to carry out additional security orders. If we are talking about the use of defence, it is good to bring forward the whole passage in the coalition agreement, and you have rightly done so in your question, because there are some locks that need to be passed before Defence can be deployed. We will open the possibility of doing so.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic053x.u95	Minister, I understand very well that you say that today it is not possible to deploy the army. However, I read in the texts on the common police that there are possibilities, but we must, of course, be very careful about them. Everything has to be carefully weighed. The army cannot be supposed to take the place of the police. We have also read today the discussions in the newspapers and the reactions of the police unions. I believe that we must take these elements into account in the debate if we are to do so. The commitment must of course be made within a legal framework.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic053x.u96	Minister, the last time we met, we were on the platform towards Paris. I assume that you too, like myself and many others, were impressed by the way in which France deals with the miserable news and the cowardly act of terror. This has an effective social interest and should encourage us to speed up the follow-up to the traces that have been put forward in our country in order to counter radicalism and the threat of terrorism. Policy-makers, at all levels, feel the urgency of the problem. The government says that it will quickly work on a number of points mentioned in the coalition agreement. There is fear in society and that is not good for anything. By way of introduction, I would also like to stress at the same time my appreciation of Prime Minister Michel and support him in what he is doing, in particular stating that such issues should not be the subject of much polemic and party politics. That is an absolute wisdom in this matter. It is easy to look at the local level to tackle radicalism and partly to ensure safety. At that level too, there is unrest, among mayors, at police forces, at chiefs of police. This unrest is about majority and opposition. This leads me to precise questions about the speed of implementation of a number of policies. Let us be clear: our country faced this problem in the second half of 2012. During that period, people also left my city to fight in Syria. During that period too, people saw Sharia4Belgium swarming to Brussels and to cities in Flanders. We have been confronted with the phenomenon for some time. A number of initiatives and ideas have already been taken, but sometimes there is a lack of effectiveness in implementation. There have been elections and there is a new government. I think that today we need to speed up a number of proposals and measures. My first question concerns the revision of the circular of 25 September 2014. That circular has led to a lot of discussion, including across party boundaries, and it was announced that it would be revised. This letter is addressed to police forces and mayors, has a confidential character, defines the responsibilities in a strange way and gives the impression that everything needs to be regulated at local level. My question is: what about this review? Secondly, that is something that bothers me. There is a lot of talk about numbers of drifters, returners, victims and people who would be on lists. I have also repeatedly said elsewhere that it would be a major step forward in security policy if every security service, and I am not talking about mayors or policy-makers, could check in a dynamic database the profile of those who have returned and those who are suspected of recruitment. Now we have a very static list, a so-called consolidated list. I can assure you, however, that the security services in the field are very frustrated when they find someone on the territory of Brussels, for example, in Vilvoorde, and they do not know whether they are on the list of persons to be monitored, whether they are being monitored effectively, what measures have been taken, what has happened to that person, whether he is being followed by his local administration and so on. None of that is on that consolidated list. I think that is putting us at risk, and I am not the only one to say that. Much remains to be done in the field of data collection, and I call for us to take a step forward. There is also the very sensitive theme of the returners. At the moment, unlike the agreements, there is no one who makes a risk assessment of the returnee, who indicates to local police or local authorities who would be better followed socially or who would be better monitored policely. Such analysis shall not be carried out. Minister, in my city there are eight returned persons. In practice, therefore, the mayor must judge what should happen to these people. That's not like this anymore. On this point, I would really like to call for a better follow-up, certainly of the returners, for a screening, but also for the provision of information to all security services. Thirdly, how will the local police areas affected by radicalism be effectively supported? That's been a question since day one. Minister, I have already pointed out to you in plenary that one radicalised full-time follow-up requires 24 full-time equivalents. If we were to assume that a radicalised return should be monitored day and night and seven days at seven, 24 full-time equivalents would be required. In my police zone formed with Machelen, there are 170 police officers. A policy choice is therefore already needed. In other words, the demand for support for local police areas, in order to be able to assume their responsibilities and to guarantee security, must really be strengthened. I keep repeating that. Moreover, I am not alone in pointing out that promises from the past, including those made by the previous government, have remained sterile in this respect. Fourthly, and finally, Minister, what is the integral nature of security policy? That too is already in beautiful brochures, whether or not signed and written by mayors. However, the coordination between the federal level and the regions on responsibilities and on who is doing what seems very crucial to me. Minister, every day brings his surprise. I read that the Brussels-Capital Region has taken the initiative to sit with four municipalities. There are 50 returners in Brussels. I will not say much about it, because there is not much to say at the moment in terms of succession. I do know that they occasionally end up in Vilvoorde and in Flanders, which is one centimetre different. Mr Minister, what bothers me most is that I read that Brussels believes that an automatic deletion may not be necessary, because such a measure does not make much sense. I read that between the lines in an article in today's newspaper. Minister, we need not only unity of command, but also an integrated approach, so that everything is aligned. After all, security cannot be caught by regional borders or municipal boundaries. That is where we should also be getting on with our work. Mr Minister, these are my far too long questions for the timeframe that has normally been given to me. Mr President, I would therefore like to thank you for the space you have given us.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic053x.u97	It's about a burning topical issue. So I have some leniency for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic053x.u98	It is true that we should not play on the letter of the procedures on this subject. I would like to thank you for your offer to transcend the game of majority and opposition in this area too. I do believe that we are all fully involved in this. I try to answer your questions as concretely as possible. The circular of 25 September is currently being revised. This case is therefore under way in consultation with the Minister of Justice and the relevant departments. Before sending them to the world, I would like to go through the circular during the discussions we have with the mayors of the most affected municipalities, so that we do not have to make corrections afterwards. When we met last time, I said that you would get something concrete before the end of January, but then we had not finished the attacks in Paris. There is, of course, the reminder to go even faster, but I will discuss this circular with the mayors' group, because we should do better right away, so that we do not have to make any more corrections afterwards. As far as Syrian fighters are concerned, 101 Syrian fighters are currently listed on the consolidated list as returned. I do not have to tell you that you know that the list is compiled and coordinated by the OCAD, on the basis of the information provided by the support services. You know how the OCAD works. The OCAD itself also determines the individual threat level and distributes the list to all relevant services, both at national and local level. That is the current situation. I am very open to the criticism and suggestions you make in this regard. The distribution of lists may have been appropriate at some point, but today the information changes all the time. It is better to ensure in one way or another that the municipalities concerned have access to a data file. You understand that something like this cannot be arranged from today to tomorrow. I believe, however, that we should do so. The procedures for the lists will be strengthened under the new circular. I am making it clear that we can move towards a more modern and open way, without being too open in this matter, but well, we must create a relationship of trust with the people who have responsibility in this matter to tackle this phenomenon and we must not hide behind levels. With regard to the support of the local police areas, my personal feeling is that today, and this is reflected in the feedback we will give following the discussion we have had with you, there is too much weight in the division of tasks in the local police areas. If we say that we want to make the fight against radicalism and terrorism a priority, we certainly need to look at it again and put more federal resources against it. Local police areas can already call on representatives of federal services today, but this needs to be strengthened. Finally, with regard to the Länder, we have a complicated country. It is my feeling, but I am open to discussing it, that we need to strengthen our relationship with the Communities in the area of prevention policy, and I am thinking of education and welfare. The subjects we are talking about are mostly community matter. The consultation committee with the Länder met last Thursday and agreements were made there. We have asked the Länder who is responsible for the prevention policy on radicalisation. A round table with the Communities in this area will be organized very soon. I have often communicated about the timing of the measures. I believe that we can get the timing right and that we will be able to put forward a first series of proposals at the Council of Ministers this week in order to deal with specific matters on the ground as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic053x.u99	Thank you, Minister, for your precise answer. I understand that not everything can be discussed in detail here. However, I have a few comments to make. I, too, am prepared to bring our expertise into the debate and in consultation with the mayors. However, I would like to return to a question that you have not answered, in particular the definition of the degrees of risk of the returned. Some say they are potential time bombs, while others say they need to be socially absorbed. My view is that this is very nuanced and different from person to person. The truth is that it is a structural problem in security policy. People who return must first and foremost be seen. This means that automatic deletion is essential. I read today, even though it is between the lines, that not all cities and municipalities do. Half of the 101 returned people you're talking about are in Brussels. I invite you there to see what is being done about succession. I will not say much about this, but I invite you to look, knowing that if you do not succeed in Brussels, you will not know it in Flanders either. That is why I very much welcome the opening of a dynamic database on which police forces can also sign up, so that at least people know that no one is working on it. That's how bad it is.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic053x.u100	I said earlier that the procedures will be tightened up within the framework of the new circular. Moreover, the government agreement states that we want to ensure that we can impose an administrative removal on the municipal authorities. It was somewhat cryptically defined, but it is indeed part of the measures.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic053x.u101	As far as the integrated approach is concerned, I believe that the difficulty and complexity of our constitutional system with Communities and Regions is not always a blessing. The fact is that there must be a link between a social, a preventive and a repressive succession. I assume that on Friday the government will mainly put legislation and regulatory matters on the table. I believe that this is also useful, although of course it will only be part of the solution. We regret that this is undoubtedly being prosecuted.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic053x.u102	Mr President, Minister, my question is of a completely different order. It is a bit strange to talk about this subject after this issue. I do not want to talk about this one unfortunate incident in Brussels, in which a number of police officers mocked a young man who lost a leg through Facebook. That was a totally inappropriate response from those police officers. I assumed this was a one-off fact, but according to the press this happens regularly. I'm very surprised. Hence my questions, Minister. How many disciplinary investigations should be opened annually against agents due to inappropriate use of social media? What are the consequences of this? Perhaps the police's deontological code is not adapted to the use of social media. Is that customized? If not, this must be done urgently. I want to separate my question from the anecdotal of this one fact.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic053x.u103	Mrs Temmerman, I fear that your question, perhaps more than you suspect, has to do with the previous subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic053x.u104	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic053x.u105	Unfortunately. I will deal with your first and second questions together. As part of the preparation of its annual report, the Disciplinary Board is currently searching the local police areas and the federal police about the number and nature of disciplinary investigations that have been and are being carried out. So I do not have the answers at the moment, but you will find them in the annual report. In the light of what is in their possession under the item "Facebook breach of discretion," their database, which is currently being updated with that survey, has two investigations known, namely one from 2012 and one from 2014. Those studies resulted respectively in a blame and in a retention of bet. As regards the consequences for the police of such inappropriate comments on social networking sites, which may have criminal and/or disciplinary implications, i.e. within the police, and may even lead to prosecution. As for your question about the deontolgic code, you are right, the deontolgic code for police services dates back to 2006 and does not yet talk about social media. Articles 33 to 37 deal with the right of expression and professional secrecy. Among other things, it refers to the obligation of discretion. So you can find a reason. Dealing with social media and its potential risks are dealt with in continuing training and, of course, in basic deontology. The police areas also take various initiatives, for example through internal notes pointing out the risks. The federal police too, via the Infonews channel, had already campaigned on this issue. You know that it takes a whole procedure to change a deontological code. I believe that it is spacious enough about discretion and especially if one supports it with explanatory notes and updates it will be appropriate. Inappropriate comments, whether verbal or written, via social media or whatever, remain inappropriate comments and can be prosecuted.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic053x.u106	Minister, it is true that social media play a very important role in the whole of the problem, just as it did before. We talked about cybercrime this morning. This is also related to that. I was surprised, however, that there seems to be a problem with the police force as well. I'll keep track of the exact number. You speak of two, but according to the comments there were quite a few. Of course, we should not always believe what is in the paper.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic053x.u107	It concerns those two, besides what we will now request from the zones. In the annual report you will...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic053x.u108	... find the complete overview.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic053x.u109	Question No 1290 by Mrs Vanessa Matz is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic053x.u110	Mr President, Minister, it is my responsibility that, as part of their connection to the Internal FPS, all agents of the 100 and 112 plants in Belgium must undergo a medical examination in Brussels. This therefore implies a large number of trips for these staff members and the reimbursement of the costs inherent in such travel. Mr. Minister, would it not be easier and, above all, more cost-effective to consider that it is the physician who moves within the power stations in order to carry out the medical examination to which each officer must submit? This option would avoid having to reimburse the travel costs of each agent and jeopardize the balance of first aid services. Indeed, the agents to travel to Brussels must be replaced. It would also appear that they will shortly be coming to Brussels to take the oath. This additional displacement will result in additional costs. As a rational measure, should not these officers be allowed to take an oath before the Governor, who represents the federal government in each province and who is, moreover, attached to you, Minister?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic053x.u111	Mr President, Mr Crusnière, it is true that the screenings for the entry into service of French- and Dutch-speaking people take place in Brussels. Empreva has in Brussels the appropriate technical equipment for visual and audiometric tests, with soundproofed cabins, so that the visits take place in good conditions. With regard to periodic examinations, Empreva uses the premises of Medex. In Flanders, Empreva has more permanent premises for doctors. This allows Empreva to use premises with the appropriate equipment for medical examinations. The aim of Empreva is to have at least one suitable room in all Medex centres in order to be able to organise consultations in the regional centres. So we are aiming for a similar development in Wallonia to work in a more decentralized way. The swearing-in is an excellent opportunity for employees, in collaboration with their colleagues in other FPS departments, to become familiar with the president and culture of the company of which they are all part. The SPF insists on maintaining these contacts with all those who take the oath, in order to allow for a meeting between staff members.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic053x.u112	Mr President, I thank the minister for his answer.
