ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic075x.u1	Minister, a study carried out by the Swiss research institute BAK from Basel showed that there are serious doubts about the development of a digital economy in the Brussels metropolis. As the only region under investigation, which I find striking, the digital economy in the Brussels metropolis was shrinking in the period 2002-2012, a period in which we would expect the opposite. A study by Boston Consulting Group shows that Brussels scores the best in terms of digital economy within the Belgian borders. This sector is of increasing importance and, according to the researchers, can provide enormous job creation, including in other sectors. Do you have any idea whether the development of the digital economy has also shrunk in the other economic regions? Have you already consulted with your Brussels colleagues to strengthen the development of the digital economy in and around Brussels? What will you do to strengthen the digital economy in the rest of the country? What are the possible causes of the lack of development in this area?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic075x.u2	The recent BAK study ordered by Brussels Metropolitan vzw still speaks of economic growth. The economic and financial crisis, of course, reduced the rate of growth from 2.5 % over the period 1998-2008 to 1.3 % over the period 2002-2012, mainly affecting the edge. My services have no data on economic growth in other regions of the country. Consultation with all relevant authorities is necessary to make Brussels a digital capital and the centre of a digital Europe. On 10 February, a consultation will be organised by Brussels Metropolitan between the Prime Minister and the Prime Ministers of the three Regions to discuss the main socio-economic challenges facing Brussels. We are currently working on a digital agenda for Belgium, which I would like to propose after the Easter holiday. That agenda is intended to trigger a real digital revolution in our country. An action plan is being developed in five areas: an advanced broadband infrastructure as an attraction pool for digital economy, stimulating e-commerce and innovative start-ups, creating a secure environment for digital activities, stimulating digital skills and jobs, and finally, a digital government where digital services become the norm.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic075x.u3	Thank you, Minister. I am glad that a lot of efforts are already being made and initiatives will be taken. After all, people sometimes say that the future will be digital. I think we're past that stage and the present is already digital. So we have to make sure that we absolutely jump on that train and can take more lead where possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic075x.u4	Mr President, Minister, then Secretary of State Vincent Van Quickenborne abolished the ban on tying in the mobile telephony market. I agree with him that we need to have more elements before we introduce a ban than before we allow anything. That seems obvious to me. I find it interesting to see what its effects are. Since then, consumers have been able to buy subscriptions and terminal equipment together. Often these are subscriptions in which a mobile phone or smartphone is included at a low price. This makes the comparison of prices on the market somewhat less easy. Mr Minister, first of all, was the authorisation of tying in the mobile telephony market under review? If so, what are the conclusions? Secondly, what effect has this authorisation had on the penetration of 3G and 4G? A study by Analysys Mason showed that it was necessary to allow tying so that smartphones would enter the market and so that mobile Internet would break down. Thirdly, have you noticed any negative effects? Fourthly, to what extent can this measure be regarded as a financial service and therefore subject to consumer credit legislation? I note, for example, that Telenet offers a smartphone for 1 euro during this buy-out period to those who not only take a telephone subscription but also pay 15 euros each month for that smartphone. This can be regarded as a down payment sale. In the Netherlands this is also considered to be the case and the legislation requires that the phrase borrowing money costs money. You know that example. Fifth, was there a comparison of the prices of mobile phones according to the provider, for example between different providers? If so, what are the findings? To what extent can this be taken into account in the price studies it makes?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic075x.u5	Mr President, Mr Dedecker, as you know, the practice of tying has been allowed since 2009, but operators have only been offering this since 2012. The ban on tying was a brake on the development of mobile internet, as it delayed the introduction of smartphones. In our neighbouring countries, where tying is more common, mobile broadband penetration is therefore higher than in Belgium. The take-up of mobile broadband has increased enormously in our country since 2013. The disadvantage of tying is that the price comparisons become more complex and that changing the provider can be slowed down because the user remains bound to his provider during the period of depreciation, although there is the possibility of repurchase, to which payment tables are always given in the contract. Neither the product nor the subscription complies with the definition of financial service under Article I.8, 18° of the Code of Economic Law. No studies have been carried out on the prices of mobile devices combined with a subscription. The price studies of the BIPT have so far only looked at sim-only tariff plans, as they still account for the vast majority of all price plans sold.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic075x.u6	Minister, I can certainly follow you when you say that tying up has also resulted in a take-up of mobile internet. That is a very good thing. It means economic growth and, for a part, a closing of the digital divide. Many people who were on the wrong side of the digital divide until recently, thanks to the smartphones, are taking their first steps in the digital world, so tying is a very good thing in itself. However, the negative aspect, the brake on changing the provider, also plays a role. It would be interesting to carry out a more extensive study of this, as well as the impact on prices. As you say, they are not currently included in the studies because it would be a minority, but it is becoming more and more common and we need to be associated with emerging trends. Finally, you say it's not a financial service. I can follow you in that. In the Netherlands, however, this is seen as a financial service. If we want to move towards a single European market in this area, I think there is still work to be done. I wonder whether initiatives will be taken to achieve a level playing field at European level in each country.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic075x.u7	Debates of the European Parliament 889 by Mrs Detiège will be converted into a written question.
