ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u2	The next item is the oral questions. I would remind you of the Rules of Procedure, which state that there is two minutes' speaking time for the question, two minutes for the answer and one minute for the reply. It also says we don't read papers. We have agreed in the Conference of Presidents that speakers do not read papers and that they stick to two minutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u3	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, last week the social partners concluded an agreement on the second pillar of pensions. Contrary to what some members of your government thought, namely that the social partners would never reach an agreement, it is there, and it is still unanimous. Prime Minister, you yourself have always said, even in your most recent speech, that social dialogue is very important to you and that it is basically the cornerstone of our society. We therefore expect the agreement to be fully implemented. My question is therefore whether the agreement will be fully implemented. Your coalition partners have doubts about this. Here are a number of statements. According to Mr Dewael, the social dialogue is not sacred. He said that in the past social dialogue in Belgium gave rise to workable compromises and that it would be good if the social partners reached a consensus, but otherwise the government would have to shoulder its responsibilities. On the other hand, Mr Verherstraeten said that social dialogue is sacred. He said that good agreements were reached in difficult circumstances, such as the present, and that this is important and should be respected and encouraged because this leads to social peace and provides jobs. Mr Verherstraeten therefore absolutely wants the agreements to be implemented. Finally, Mr Vuye said that he was not elected as a notary of the social partners. According to him, the social agreement must be looked at, after which the government must tell it, which in other words means that the government will decide everything. Mr Prime Minister, the lack of clarity is therefore a trump card. The social partners have made it clear that it is a single agreement and that it is balanced. Prime Minister, you know better than I that if one element is taken out of an agreement, there is actually no agreement anymore. Hence my simple question as to whether you will implement fully and comprehensively the difficult agreement reached, which was unanimously approved by the social partners, including the elements on the second pillar and the additional elements agreed upon in it. Thank you in advance for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u4	Mr President, Prime Minister, it has been a long time since we were able to ask you some topical questions in plenary. It was also a long time ago that the social partners had not been able to agree on a number of complicated issues. The outcome of their negotiations is a compromise, it's giving and giving. I could comment on the content, the second pillar and its accessibility, the orientation of the investments made, the control of availability, especially for women, but I am more interested in your government's attitude to this agreement. Prime Minister, as part of our discussion this Wednesday, we have seen very different positions of members of your majority, including Mr Verhersrtaeten, Mr Dewael, Mr Vuye. And I must say that it is often Mr. Vuye who wins! I must be able to regret it because between provocation and appeasement, our choice is rather that of appeasement, of respect for social dialogue. Prime Minister, what are you going to do with this social agreement? Will you apply it as such or apply it by trying to improve it, keeping the balance? There can be room for discussion and the government can always do better, but in a balanced way. Or, as before, will you damage this agreement between the social partners, make it much less equitable, much less balanced and, again, provoke anger and social imbalance, which is problematic from an economic point of view? Prime Minister, appeasement or provocation? I want a clear answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u5	Mr President, Prime Minister, there is an agreement by the Group of Ten on supplementary pensions, but he is not just talking about that. He also spoke of the availability of income guarantee allowances for beneficiaries. This agreement must of course be welcomed. The most important question today is whether your government will implement the entire agreement. Previously, even though agreements between the social partners had been concluded, you had chosen to apply only a part of them. What are you going to decide about this new G10 agreement? On the other hand, many citizens are wondering what will happen to their pensions. It will no longer be based on fixed rates, but will be bounded by a floor and ceiling – from 1.75 to 3.75. If this agreement is to be welcomed, it is legitimate for the workers to ask questions. Will this new scheme only concern future premiums? Will a new rate assessment be conducted each year? Who will decide? Will you change the age at which workers can obtain this supplementary pension? These are all relevant questions that citizens are asking themselves. I would therefore like to thank you in advance for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u6	Prime Minister, the government has always intended to reduce supplementary pensions in our country. That's on page 28 of your coalition agreement. It is yet another offensive against the pensions of ordinary people who work. We have had the abolition of the pension bonus and we have the whole debate on longer working hours, an increase in the retirement age without making work work. So this is part three of the trident against the pensions of ordinary workers. The government then pushed the social partners into the hole asking for a compromise under that antisocial government agreement. A compromise has been reached, a very fragile compromise, on which much remains to be said. Employees will receive up to one third less supplementary pension. It could be a few tens of thousands of euros lost at the end of the journey. So we can ask where all the profits of group insurers and pension funds are. The minimum yields had to be reduced from 3.75 % to 3.25 % and now to 1.75 %. In the years in which it went well, a lot of profit has been made. Where did those profits go? However, there is now a compromise. Last week, during your State of the Union, you knocked on your chest about the so-called unity in your government. Prime Minister, that unit has lasted three days, three days. Then there were statements by members of the N-VA that they would not just agree to that social agreement and a statement by Mr Verherstraeten of CD&V that a social agreement for his party is sacred. What is it now? Will the government respect that fragile social agreement or not? There's a statement from the N-VA and if the N-VA says anything about social policy, farmer, watch your geese. I believe that there are not many N-VA measures where ordinary workers do not get hurt. If we go towards a further reduction in supplementary pensions and if the government wants that fragile balance, that fragile agreement, it will certainly not be with us. We will never accept that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u7	Mr President, Prime Minister, ten days ago an agreement was reached at the level of the social partners. As the colleagues who spoke before me have pointed out, this is a global compromise. And I would be tempted to say that, within the framework of this comprehensive agreement of these social partners, an important element has been achieved by the trade unions, that is to say, the maintenance of guaranteed performance. It is regrettable that it is reduced to a range ranging from a minimum of 1.75 per cent to 3.75 per cent. This was not earned in advance in view of the sector's prior statements, which were supported by your Minister of Pensions. Nevertheless, it is a challenge not only to the attractiveness of the second pillar but also to its stability. In fact, if we can regularly review the notion of guaranteed performance, what will we do tomorrow or the day after? More than ever, the first pillar of the pension must be a strong first pillar which is the only guarantee of solidarity and stability. Prime Minister, what follow-up will you give to this agreement? Are you committed to strict compliance with this comprehensive agreement? Can we still be credible when we say that the generalization of the second pillar will guarantee the purchasing power of pensioners? Given all the attacks on purchasing power and the weakening of the second pillar, I sincerely believe that pensioners are in danger. Finally, do we know today, if the rule is applied, what will be the actual rate applicable to the second pillar of the pension?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u8	I confirm that last Friday afternoon, on behalf of the government, I formally received the agreement from Mrs Sioen. The government's experts immediately reviewed the agreement. You're right, it's an agreement with different parts. It is not just about the return on the second pillar. That is an important point, a crucial point even for the future. It is important to clarify this as soon as possible. However, there are other elements, such as work, temporary unemployment or health care. The social partners also agreed on these points. I am extremely clear: I am pleased that an agreement has been reached. It is a demonstration of the ability, beyond a priori different interests, to agree on difficult and delicate subjects. I have a very positive feeling about the content of the agreement that has been communicated. I am convinced that, following the meeting of the Kern this evening and the Council of Ministers tomorrow, we will be able to give a precise and balanced position to the social partners very quickly in the coming days. We want to respect the important work of the social partners. This agreement has nuances. I give an example: in terms of employment or health care in particular, the social partners express the wish to continue negotiations with a view to reaching agreements. That's positive! But the government can ask for clarification on how this work will continue. It's not just a question of saying "yes" or "no". It is a question of providing a clear answer. I confirm the very positive feeling that we have on the fact that an agreement has been reached and on the content of the agreement. We will continue to work tonight, and perhaps tomorrow, to look at it and give a formal answer. My last word and information are next. I have informed the Group of Ten that it is my intention to organise a new meeting as soon as possible between the nuclear cabinet and the Group of Ten. Finally, I would like to draw up a strategy to try to organise a form of argument within the Council of Ministers. That's not gonna work. I'd like to give you one last important piece of information. The role of one and the other is very clear. There is the government with the support of a political majority. We support a coalition agreement. There is also legitimacy to implement that coalition agreement. That is a first important point. There is, on the other hand, the role and expertise of the social partners in the implementation of policies. It is useful to listen to the social partners in order to strengthen and improve our measures. Thank you for your attention. (Applause from the Group of the European People's Party)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u9	Mr President, Prime Minister, thank you for your reply. You got off to a good start. I also believe that it is very important that the agreement is there. However, you did not mention that you will respect the agreement. At the end of your speech, you even turned things around and pointed out that it will ultimately be the government that will decide. Prime Minister, I will repeat it again. In your coalition agreement and also in the policy statement of your Minister for Pensions, it is very clear that the second pillar is an important element. Firstly, the Minister for Pensions has now almost completely undermined that second pillar. Despite this, the social partners have reached an agreement. You are suggesting that we should not try to organise the disagreement. Prime Minister, we are not organizing this disagreement. She's just here. One minister states that the government will respect the agreement, while another minister states that the government will not respect it. That's dissension. However, Prime Minister, I would like to end with a positive outcome. First of all, I really hope from the bottom of my heart that not another decision by your government will be at the expense of what families, and in this case of some pensioners, will earn. Secondly, I hope that this time you will absolutely respect the social agreement. Minister, if you do not do so now, the current government has lost all the credit with the social partners.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u10	Prime Minister, if you want to reassure us, it's a mistake! You spoke of a will of respect and then chained it with a series of expressions. You were talking about nuances, precise analyses. We have learned to know your government and its ability to do the opposite of what it says, especially with respect to compliance with social agreements. The devil hides himself in details as in taxation. This is a fragile subject. The social dialogue has resumed, and we can be pleased with it, especially since the circumstances are difficult. You are not helping the social partners to find good agreements. These are only possible when the government is supportive. From our point of view, your government is not supporting positive agreements, including on pensions. You have a good game of accusing the opposition of trying to create the fight, disputes within the government, but everyone will have noticed that you do not need us to do this, and we refuse that social actors and social security are the victims.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u11	Prime Minister, thank you for your answers. We are used in this assembly, and even in the media, to hearing both versions of your government. Indeed, at the level of social consultation, there is the version of the N-VA which states very clearly that it is largely possible to dispense with the social partners, and there is the position of the CD&V which still pays very great attention to it. What you intend to decide in the coming days will be a demonstration of trust and how you really want to work with the social partners. Either you fully apply the agreement, and that will be the sign that you can work with them with confidence, or you apply it to the map and variable geometry, and this will be the demonstration that there is no possibility of building trust with the social partners. Prime Minister, you must now move forward to build on this trust that I invited you to a week ago. Building that trust with the social partners will also allow you to build new trust with all citizens.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u12	Mr Prime Minister, you referred again to the so-called unity within the government, but I no longer believe you when it comes to this. Maybe I believed you nine months ago, or six months ago. Every time you speak in this Chamber, you say that the government is characterised by unity, but a few days later there are ministers and parties within your government who say A and B, and all their opinions differ, despite the beautiful, venerable statement you make every week in the Chamber. Today you missed the opportunity to reassure all people. We are talking about 2.3 million workers who are currently building a supplementary pension. Those people want certainty about the amount they can expect at the end of the ride. The N-VA is in favour of a reduction, CD&V says that the social agreement must be maintained. In fact, you have left some doubts in your answer, and that is a great pity. This country needs social peace and security when it comes to social policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u13	Prime Minister, your answer is unquestionably nuanced, which I can understand. Nevertheless, I hear that the government is very close to respecting the agreement of the social partners. And, unlike my colleagues, I tend to believe you; you will do everything you can to get there! Do not miss the opportunity to show us now a government that respects social dialogue.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u14	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, ministers, ladies and gentlemen, last Monday was a day of general strike in the region of Liège, a strike combined with that of the railways, all at the initiative of the FGTB alone. As at almost every national demonstration, significant damage was found, this time amounting to 120,000 euros. The Walloon minister in charge of road management also filed a complaint against X. In addition, thousands of workers have been taken hostage by dams, some of which will say filtering, including on a highway. Obstruction of movement is an offence! In their comments to the media, some union leaders tell us that their actions will go crescendo. Although I can understand their legitimate demands and respect the right to strike, I cannot understand that citizens are being prevented from going to work or that the public domain is being targeted. There is an urgent need to legislate. Strike is a right, but also work. I tabled two bills in early June, one on the right to strike and the right to work, the other on the legal personality of trade unions. Indeed, it is illogical for all citizens to pay the bill for the overflows of a few. Trade unions, and in this case the FGTB, must be able to be prosecuted criminally and civilly for all the excesses of their affiliates.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u15	Mr. President, Prime Minister. We are not the last to criticize when your policy is unacceptable and we find it legitimate for citizens to oppose it and express it, including as a last resort by the right to strike. But this Monday, things have gone too far, far too far! Blockages that lasted several hours, major damage to the roads, not to mention a situation that prevented a surgeon from reaching his hospital while his presence was indispensable and urgent. Prime Minister, in the face of such slippages but also of the hours that have passed, I would like to know what instructions were given to the police. Is it an instruction to allow demonstrators to do so or, on the contrary, to put an end to these obstacles to movement? On the other hand, with regard to what has happened, it also seems to me important to know whether legal proceedings have been initiated against the perpetrators of the offences.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u16	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this morning we woke up with the perception that in this country, in order of strength, there are three types of rights: first, ordinary civil rights, second, human rights and, thirdly, the right to strike. Is that so? Indeed, we have a lot of rights in Belgium and in Europe. In our minds, these rights are at an equal level, aren't they? There is a right to strike, but there is also a right to freedom, the freedom not to stop. There is a right to health and there is a right to help people in need. We are now faced with an issue in this area. Do we want to curtail the right to strike? No, we are in favour of the right to strike, but that right to strike must not become a big jerk in which we stop everything, such as the disruption of public order, the prevention of aid to persons in need, and violence, which is nevertheless a monopoly of the State. I do not think we can allow that. I am a doctor, and as a physician, there is such a thing as freedom in the practice of medicine. However, that does not give a surgeon the right to work with his scalpel any innocent passerby. Hence my question, Prime Minister. In these times, in which society and the government are trying to safeguard a system, can we allow a social system with our unemployment benefits, our health insurance and our pensions, so that under the cloak of syndical law and the right to strike, a lot of things are hidden and stupid and blind violence is allowed?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u17	Prime Minister, Minister for Work, ladies and gentlemen, this is not the first time I have been here when it comes to the right to strike. During last year there were a lot of social actions and that led me to ask you, Minister of Labour, where the right to strike begins and ends and where the right to work, freedom of movement, begins and ends. You replied to me that there was something like an agreement between the social partners, the men's agreement of 2002, of which you were the author. That describes the rules, where strike can be made and where it stops. I said then that it was time to evaluate that document. I note, after all, that the occupation of ports is still very serious and that port sites are being closed down. Last week we witnessed an unfortunate incident in which a Danish tourist left her life in questionable circumstances, of which we do not know the cause or effect. I have been asking for an evaluation of the gentlemen's agreement for so long. The social partners had announced this by the end of 2010. Today is 2015. I'm not going back to the future, but I'd like to ask you the following questions. Prime Minister, Minister, first of all, do you condemn what happened last week, the occupation of the public road, an illegal action which prevented anyone from exercising his profession, with all the consequences? Secondly, will you now finally urge the social partners to review the gentlemen's agreement in the short term?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u18	The answer will only be given by the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u19	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the incidents that took place earlier this week are serious. On behalf of the Government, I would like to begin by expressing my sympathy and condolences to the family of this Danish victim. I would like to express my condolences on behalf of the government to the family of this Danish tourist. In our country, there is plenty of room to be critical of a government's policy. Anyone can try to convince someone that this government is pursuing a bad policy. In this context, no one contests the right to protest, to express themselves and to strike. It seems to me that no one can contest the right of those who choose not to participate in the strike, to be able to go freely and without violence to their work, hospital or school. That is why I am very formally calling for respect. We live in the rule of law. There are clear rules! All I'm asking for is respect for the existing rules. Blocking an industrial zone, blocking a motorway is forbidden by law! [[Applause]] That reasoning is supported by the Council of Europe. It makes a clear difference and accepts a picket to inform or even try to convince the public. What is not possible is to do a picket with the aim of forcing, sometimes by violence, sometimes by intimidation. That's not acceptable. So I call for respect. And I conclude with these words, which I believe to be common sense: the freedom to strike stops where the freedom of those who do not strike begins, to go to work, to go to the hospital or to go to school. I appeal to everyone to respect the rules. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u20	I thank the Prime Minister for his response. Nevertheless, I would like to stress the urgency of the situation, because in economic terms, these repeated blockages are a disaster for small and medium-sized enterprises, as well as for workers who are prevented from going to work. You will find that I did not mention the incident of the tourist who unfortunately died. An investigation is under way and I believe that insisting on this would have been insignificant on my part.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u21	Prime Minister, thank you for your answer. I would like, once it is not customary, to welcome your intervention. The right to strike is not an absolute right and it cannot be acceptable to come to the situation on Monday. The behaviour of some has been totally unacceptable and irresponsible. That being said, Prime Minister, I think we have the right to question the instructions, in particular from your Minister of the Interior, which were given to the police in order to remove the obstacles to movement. You did not reply on this point. We will come back to this by questioning the Minister of the Interior, because not only was what happened on Monday not acceptable, but also because this must be the subject of an analysis with a view to future interventions and possible future instructions to be given to the police in similar situations.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u22	Prime Minister, the N-VA has entered this project as a loyal democratic partner in order to save our country's economy and social systems. We are going to do this in a democratic way and not with the law of the street. Then we'll give you a good partner.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u23	Prime Minister, I would like to congratulate you on your statement. I am very pleased that you are condemning what has happened on the public road. I was surprised by what Mrs Fonck said in the first part of her answer. I thought something nice was growing between opposition and majority, in the form of a joint condemnation of what happened. In the second part, however, I missed something, namely the tools to enforce what it is about. If one says that there is a right to work, one must allow the police to intervene when the public road is occupied. We cannot allow companies and ports to be occupied. Then we must also create the means to enforce this. My group will continue to insist on this in order to ensure that these tools are there and that the rights invoked by the Prime Minister are all respected.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u24	Mr President, Minister, we are all paying more and more electronically, and that is a good thing because it is fast, safe and efficient. Most people still have very little cash in their pockets. This seems to me to be an evolution which we can all welcome. However, the condition is that the electronic payment network is effective, efficient and reliable. If not, this will cause a lot of problems both for consumers who do not have enough cash to deal with the problem and for traders who see a lot of turnover lost. We have had several problems in recent years, up to twice in the Christmas period, at a time when there were large peaks that were perfectly predictable. This has led to great dissatisfaction with the traders. The reason for this is a technical breakdown at Worldline. This is a company with a quasi monopoly on our market. Last month there was an even greater problem. Payments in the shops have continued, but the money has not been paid to the traders for more than a week. I hope you will understand, Minister, that this is a huge problem that has caused major liquidity problems for traders. Several of them could no longer afford their suppliers and some had to close the doors. Following that latest incident, negotiations were launched between Worldline and various trade federations to achieve a result and to develop a system of compensation if that problem arises again. I have also heard, Minister, that you have also ordered an audit from the National Bank on this issue. I have two specific questions for you. First of all, have there been any results of that consultation? Is there anything else you can tell us about that? Secondly, what exactly is the purpose of the audit you ordered?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u25	Mr President, Mr Klaps, it is true that we had Atos Worldline with us on 28 September. We have made it clear to them that a number of things are no longer possible. In two and a half years there have been three technical failures with serious consequences for traders and consumers. You can't do this anymore! Firstly, with regard to technical difficulties, we have been promised that this will be remedied as quickly as possible and that in the future there will be as little as possible. It'd be wrong! They would also consult with self-employed organisations to see what commercial concessions they could give to make up for this. Secondly, there are a lot of problems with communication. Even the National Bank, the regulator, was not aware of the technical problems. We specifically asked the National Bank to carry out an audit as soon as possible. That audit is confidential. The National Bank shall act as a supervisory authority for this purpose. However, we would like to go one step further, in particular by putting forward a draft law that gives the supervisory authority, the National Bank, even more tools to be able to act harder in the future, if this happens, against Atos Worldline so that everyone, the traders but also consumers, can rely to the maximum on the fact that the system is performant, is well maintained technically and has as few defects and shortcomings in reality as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u26	Mr Minister, I have a thought in this regard about your way of working. When it comes to social dialogue between trade unions and employers, you always say that we must wait for the agreement to be reached and that we must give them plenty of opportunities to reach an agreement. Although the agreement is finally paid by the government, you will not join the table as a participant. This is now a negotiation between Worldline and the traders, who have suffered damage, not the government. In this case, you are announcing a legislative initiative, while the negotiations are still ongoing. Minister, I hope you will understand that this will not make the negotiations any easier. How can the organisations reach an agreement if it is suddenly amended by a draft law? I would therefore like to call on you, Minister, to wait and intervene only if the consultations do not produce results. At that time, we will fully support your initiative, because electronic payments are crucial for our economy and they must go well.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u27	Mr President, Mr Vice-President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, two weeks ago I received a letter from Mr Dieetteren, which states: 'We can inform you with certainty that your vehicle is unfortunately equipped with non-compliant software'. This is a result of the Volkswagen scandal, which also affects many car owners in our country. Two weeks ago, at the committee meeting that was held in the Chamber on this subject, you indicated that it was just under 400 000 vehicles. In the meantime, the owners have all received a letter, just like me, but that letter does not answer all the questions. In the meantime, Germany has decided that any impacted vehicle is required to be recalled to the garage. This would also be the case in our country, according to press releases last week. Minister, you announced in committee that you will follow the dossier very closely. It is therefore time to give a new state of affairs, for example with regard to the announced research of the FPS Economy. Are other vehicles other than those mentioned so far, with other types of engines, involved in the scandal? There is talk that a more recent type would also be involved. How will the obligation to modify the software be enforced with the owners of the vehicles? How will the possible impact of software adjustments on vehicle behaviour and consumption be addressed? Mr Minister, just under 400 000 vehicle owners are running around today with a great deal of uncertainty; they need clear answers and we hope, of course, that you can give them already.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u28	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Van den Bergh, last Tuesday we had a meeting with Mr Dieteren, where some things were cleared up and others were not. Firstly, and this is very important, the German KBA or Kraftfahrt Bundesamt has announced that it will require the recall of all vehicles, VWJVs and others, which are subject to the shuffle software. Under a European regulation, Germany is obliged to do so for the whole of Europe and therefore for Belgium. This means that all VW concessionaires and all VW concessionaires are obliged to recall the wagons concerned. Secondly, we do not yet know how to organise the resetting, the resetting of the software. For example, the impact on power, consumption, NOx and CO2 emissions has not yet been clarified. Thirdly, it has been said that there are new figures. I can read the figures, Mr President: 317 580 cars in Belgium are equipped with the shuffling software. The owners have received a letter. It was agreed with Döhleteren that, firstly, in Belgium, the compulsory recall by Döhleteren and the concessionaires will take place and, secondly, that the customer should not bear the costs. This means that resetting and re-ordering will be entirely at the expense of Volkswagen, the concessionaires, the Germans or the Germans. Fourthly, we must now look at what that means in practical terms, because, as the Minister responsible for consumer affairs, I want to make sure that the consumer, who bought his car completely in good faith, does not suffer. One might ask oneself what happens when one does not respond to the call. What happens then? What happens if you have to miss the car for a while? That is why we have said that we are going to hold a next meeting with Mr Deutschmarken, to know how everything will be organized in practice. It is important to know that this is a mandatory recall action by Döhleteren and that the consumer must not suffer from it. He can't bear the cost of that. Finally, we will continue to look at practical implementation with regard to Döpereteren, in order to offer the consumer all the protection in the matter. [[Rumur on the benches]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u29	Ladies and gentlemen, may I appeal to you to show some respect for the speakers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u30	Thank you, Mr Vice Prime Minister, for your answers, which provide an additional clarification. However, many questions remain open. You can't answer those questions alone. For this purpose, Volkswagen Germany and Döhleteren will have to make the necessary efforts in the coming period. The principle that consumers should not be allowed to bear the consequences of the case is important. Furthermore, with the special committee which will soon be set up, we must be able to follow up on the substance of the matter so that the necessary conclusions can be drawn, including as regards the impact on our environment.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u31	Mr President, Minister, everyone around the world knows that radicalisation, and in particular the recruitment of jihadists for jihad all over the world, especially in Syria, Iraq and related ones, is happening by IS and other organisations, especially via the uncensored Internet. The only person who doesn't seem to know that is the Belgian Government. After all, a report by the P Committee shows that the federal police anti-terror unit has a team, the Internet Intelligence Support Unit, which has been a part-time employee for a year. This Internet Intelligence Support Unit is a ghost unit, which does not exist or hardly exists in practice. That's more than painful and vengeful. According to the report, there is a terrible lack of capacity for online monitoring. I wonder how the hell this is possible. You will say later that this will all be done from January, and that the security of the State sister and so on, but I have to say that this unit, which is specifically competent, has been completely understaffed since mid-2014 at the time it matters. How the hell is that possible, at this time of great terror threat by these kind of fundamentalist jihadist organizations? This is not only painful, it is almost a criminal neglect of one of the essential tasks the federal police must perform, especially at this very moment. Minister, how did this happen? How is it possible that this has been neglected for so long? How the hell could this unity have come so far that, in this painful and difficult period, people can hardly have access to their job properly?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u32	Mr President, Deputy Prime Minister, last Friday I received a delegation from your department in my city to inform me about preventive policies in the cities. At that time, too, we had to observe that we in Vilvoorde had never received a notification from the federal government until now to warn them that they saw via Internet observation that someone was in danger of getting into the arms of recruiters. I still feel that the fight against radicalism deserves the title of the policy of hollow promises. In 2013, Minister Milquet announced that he would make a heavy commitment, with four or five specialized people, to the one-line fight against inter-tradicalism. You have done so, Minister None has done so, and now Mrs Homans is doing so; she is announcing initiatives for this year. Mr Minister, this is an open door, but when we analyse radicalism, we see that the main action must be in the perception of the Internet. In particular, preventive measures should also be taken to warn local authorities if people are targeted. Mr. Secretary, where exactly is this half-time power? I would also like to make an appeal, Minister. The fight against radicalism can only be won if all governments work together, if the actions at federal level are coordinated with the actions at regional and local level. Following this incident, or perhaps earlier, did you consult with Mrs Homans, who today is preparing to tackle radicalism via the Internet as well? If so, when did this consultation take place?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u33	Mr President, Minister, I do not come to join a majority-opposition or opposition-majority confrontation on this issue. It has been a long time since we made it clear that we are seeking the widest possible unanimity of democratic forces in order to effectively combat the rise of terrorism in our country. However, this requires proven practices of good collaboration between the various levels of power and police. It is true, however, that there is still serious work to be done at this level. The P Committee has, moreover, highlighted this. I heard Mr.Ducarme say that it was the effect of the past and that today, at last, we have a plan, 12 measures, that nothing like that could happen anymore. However, caution must always be exercised before we believe that perfection has been achieved to combat this type of phenomenon. Indeed, history tells us that, unfortunately, there may be particular circumstances that will show that there will still be serious facts that will be committed. We will always be at the side of those who want to provide the means to prevent and recriminalize this type of criminal act. But more fundamentally, I would like to make two points. First, in my view, an assessment of how to work together between different levels of authority is necessary. It is wrong to believe that today the exchange of information between the federal police and the zonal police is conducted in a perfect way and in good agreement. That is not true! You are aware of the testimonies of both the mayors and, no doubt, of your police services. Now you need to take a stronger and more meaningful initiative than just sending circulars. I have carefully reviewed the circular of 21 August 2015 on the exchange of information and follow-up of foreign terrorist fighters. It is obvious that, for example, the organization of camps, as has been discovered a posteriori and whose shortcomings have been seen, does not fully fit into the application of this circular. We must therefore, no doubt, extend the scope and provide further clarification. Secondly, it's been a long time since you've been asked to do so.It's time to have what other police services have abroad, namely a cell that's been expanded, fed and made up of people who specialize in the fight against cybercrime. Too often, you have suggested that this is the responsibility of the zonal police. Of course, they can contribute, but it is true professional specialists who must be at the heart of the federal police.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u34	Mr. Chair, Minister, yesterday the press echoed elements of a confidential report from Committee P, which we discussed the day before yesterday at Committee P, and which relates to the organization of Sharia4Belgium sympathizer camps between autumn 2013 and summer 2014 in the province of Liège. What is important is that the elements pointed out in these leaks are malfunctions related to the flow of information. These leaks are obviously not acceptable. We deplored them and condemned them. But the contents of the leaks also caught us. This relates to an essential element in the fight against terrorism and radicalism: the flow of information. I know that the government has already taken up this problem with arms. This is proof of this: the new version of the circular on foreign fighters, which our colleague Mr Olivier Maingain has just mentioned, and which greatly improves the situation. I would also like to point out the means available for State Security and for some municipalities which are more than others confronted with terrorism or the fight against terrorism. Minister, what lessons do you learn from what has been revealed by the press? What measures have been taken by the government to improve the flow of information? Finally, what projects are you going to develop to complete this file?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u35	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I fully understand these questions from the four speakers, and I believe that these questions arise in other groups as well. It is true that we are faced with a number of things which have gone wrong in the past and which we must now systematically correct. As far as Internet scanning is concerned, what is stated in the report of the P-Committee is correct. In the middle of this year, I was confronted with understaffing there. However, this is rather specialised. It is not because the problem is being identified today, that I have the capacity to man that service immediately, a few hours, days or weeks later. This concerns persons with a specific profile, who must first be recruited and trained before they can become operational. That is why two initiatives were taken immediately. Firstly, recruiting people to ensure that an operational capacity of five to ten people to patrol the Internet is available as of 1 January. Secondly, provision is made for a legal framework. Indeed, each of us can patrol the Internet but the question is how to act as soon as something reprehensible is found. There was no legal framework in this respect, but it is being prepared and the necessary instruments will be available before the end of the year. Mr. Maingain, with regard to the jihadist camps in the Ardennes, I also note that these events date back to 2013 and 2014. The problem in terms of the transmission of information between police levels, local and federal, arose only in one out of three cases. So you're right, but in the other two cases, it worked. This is proof that the procedures are in place and that this is primarily a human problem. It is up to the agents to exchange their information, but a mistake was made in one of the three cases. I let the investigation proceed to find out how to remedy it. Colleagues, if there is a minor incident with the police, I will be questioned about this in Parliament. That's good. That's the way it's supposed to be. That is the control of the legislature over the executive. Over the past 14 days, policemen have solved 40 000 people who give the best of themselves every day, identity fraud, drug gangs and jihadists. However, I will never be able to hear anything about this in Parliament. I would like to take this opportunity to thank our policemen for their daily commitment.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u36	Mr President, Minister, if the majority is applauded after the classic trick of concealing the powerlessness and inability of the government to do what needs to be done, namely to make sufficient police officers available for essential tasks, I can continue with my speech. We're not attacking the police here. We're attacking the policy. The NSPV police union has today stated that this year 1 400 agents have retired and only 800 to 900 have been recruited. There is an acute lack of agents and skilled, specialized people to perform these tasks. So, Minister, do not try to score on the cover of the agents, denying them the resources and the staff to do what they have to do. It's not the cops' fault. It is the fault of politics that this unit is undermanned. And that doesn't date from the past. Since mid-2014 the team manager and several members of the team are gone. Since the beginning of this year this unit has only been manned by a half-time employee. That is the reality. You knew that. You are aware of the urgency of the problem and you have done nothing about it. Don't blame the police when you and your policy make mistakes.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u37	Minister, I would like to thank you for your reply. However, as head of a police force in an area suffering from these problems, I would like to stress that there is a great deal of demand in difficult circumstances. It's gonna be as painful as it was under the last government. I referred to promises with timing by Mrs Milquet and I referred to statements made by you, Mr Geens and others. It's painful for a police zone to have to know what's gonna happen when nothing comes. That is a first point. Mr Minister, a second element. The local authorities have been given orders by means of a circular, the foreign fighters directive. I have already said that this letter is actually a very serious step forward but that it is going to be a huge challenge to have it applied throughout the country with the resources available today. Security policy, especially in this difficult area, costs money. So that's a big challenge. Mr. Secretary, I would like to end with an appeal. We have little resources at the various levels of policy. The worst thing that can happen to us is that things happen in a fragmented way, that something happens at Flemish level, at the federal level, at the judicial police, at the federal police and at the local level. My plea is and remains that you must ensure that you have a streamlined policy. My main fear is that we are preparing different, mutually troubling initiatives.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u38	Minister, let me tell you that I do not share your analysis of past facts. Of course, I do not have access to the report before the Monitoring Committee because I am not a member of the Monitoring Committee. But on the basis of information given by the press following leaks – of which I cannot say whether they are established or not – concerning the file of the first Sharia4Belgium camp in Jalhay in 2013, the federal police did not communicate anything to the local police and the local police who carried out on-site checks did not take care to inform the federal police. As regards the second case, that of the PKK, although it is true that the Federal Police was informed in advance, the judicial police in Liège never wrote a report. No documents within the police therefore contain the information collected and the local police have also received no feedback as to how the camp is going on in their own territory. In the third case, the information was communicated to the local police who did not exploit anything. Three times, police services have been outside their missions. So it cannot be said that it is a great success. It's the past, you say. All right! Mr. Ducrame suggests that there will never be such a malfunction again. All right! I simply invite you to review your circular to broaden its scope to include all assumptions that we can identify not only terrorist fighters linked to a zone of conflict, but also those who do propaganda and recruitment work.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u39	Minister, thank you for your answer. It is clear that action has been taken. I will clarify what our group leader said in order to avoid any misunderstanding. As a result of these measures, such malfunctions should no longer happen again, but we must all be aware that zero risk does not exist and that we are not immune to an isolated fact. In this regard, comparing what happened two years ago with the aggression in Thalys is at the limit of intellectual honesty. This does not value the police for whom we must have recognition. What I want to say in response to some of the criticisms that have been made is that if this government has had to take action, it is because others before it have not done so!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u40	Minister, 12 million people are fleeing the region of Turkey, Iraq and Syria today. Today, the refugee crisis seems to have been pushed a bit to the background, but it continues in all intensity. A few months ago, hundreds of people drowned in the Mediterranean. Today, the problem is shifting to the Balkan route. At the beginning of this week we saw poignant scenes: thousands of people are stuck on the border between Croatia and Slovenia under inhuman conditions, without food, without hygiene, cold and wet. Those scenes are actually much more important than what we saw in our Maximilian park a few weeks ago. Europe is not sitting still, but it is going very slowly: the distribution plan, the hotspots. In this context, a number of things have happened this week, or a number of things still need to be done. That is what my questions are about, Minister. My first question concerns the negotiations with Turkey. Turkey is an important solution for at least reducing the flow of refugees to Europe. Mrs Merkel visited President Erdogan and they discussed a number of negotiating chips. What about flexible visas, emergency aid, accession to the EU? What is Belgium's position and how far should our country go? My second question concerns the situation in the Western Balkans. It is our duty to help the people on the border between Slovenia and Croatia. It is again about hotspots, spreading, but also about strengthening our external borders. What humanitarian aid will Belgium provide there? What do you expect from the mini-top on Sunday's region?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u41	Mr Vandenput, first of all I would like to say that we are trying to provide humanitarian aid to various countries in the region, such as Jordan and Lebanon. The situation is currently very difficult, hence the European Union's decision to spend EUR 1 billion more on humanitarian aid in the region, with an additional EUR 30 million in Belgium. Your first question concerns Turkey. We're trying to go in the same direction. There is a proposal to increase the resources available to Turkey for the correct reception of refugees on Turkish territory. There are already 2.5 million refugees in Turkey. Secondly, there are several negotiations with Turkey on other issues, such as visas. Belgium's position on this matter is always the same. We can speed things up, but only on the basis of technical criteria. We must be sure that, according to the European Commission, this is possible to do so. There are already some facilities, but it is possible to do more. There are also negotiations on accession. Belgium advocates the opening of new chapters, such as chapters 23 and 24 on justice and human rights. This is the best way to have a direct dialogue with Turkey. There will be a summit on the Balkans next Sunday. We will proceed to better aid for the Balkan countries in order to organise the reception. However, we must also bear in mind two other points. Mr President, I come to my conclusion on these points. Firstly, there must be real control of the external borders of the European Union. How can we achieve better cooperation for this external audit? Secondly, with the states in the region, we must also consider whether it is possible to set up some centres on the ground, not hotspots, but centres where proper registration of refugees can take place. That's also a possible piste for Sunday. First of all, however, we must give more humanitarian aid to the various countries in the region.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u42	Mr President, Minister, your last sentence clearly indicates that there is going to be a reduction in the needs of the region, which is a good thing. However, as I have already mentioned, Europe is acting very slowly. Europe is behind the facts. Europe is reactive. Europe is sick. We need a proactive Europe that concludes agreements on Turkey, Lebanon and Jordan in order to organise reception there in the region. We need a structural solution to the conflict there. As you point out, the Schengen and Dublin Conventions must be respected and implemented in the European Union. That's what it's all about. We must help the people there as much as possible. This is the most humane and efficient way of helping those involved. That's what they want. So I thank you for your answer and look forward to the follow-up.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u43	Colleagues, I note that there are still questions for Minister De Block, Minister Van Overtveldt, Minister Galant and also for Secretary of State Francken. There are no ministers present.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u44	Mr President, without wishing to add any more, the ministers know that Thursday is to be devoted to Parliament. On Thursday at 3:30 p.m., they must be here, especially since the questions are tabled at 11:00 a.m. I do not know why the Ministers have reported their absence. I don't know what's going on. Probably they're still on vacation. Probably they understood that...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u45	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u46	Mr Ducrame, look at the situation today. Last week, you were worried about the fact that our remarks were perhaps not as interesting as the substance of the proposal that was being made. Today, the government is absent and your silence in this regard will require a suspension of the sitting.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u47	I can only establish that!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u48	Mr President, I find this absence all the more damaging as I asked the Prime Minister my question about the rules and Europe. Indeed, it seemed to me that the latter could answer this European question...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u49	It's something else, Mr. Van Hees!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u50	The Prime Minister was present. He could have been there to answer my question. I now note that the Minister of Finance to whom my question has been referred is not present.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u51	I note that ministers are absent. In the meantime, the services are trying to reach the ministers concerned, but that is not possible for the time being. As a result, I shall suspend the sitting.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u52	Mr President, I think you are doing the right thing by asking the services to contact them so that they may appear before us illico presto. But when they finally arrive, would you like to point out to them that this is a lack of respect for Parliament?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u53	You can be sure, Mrs. Onkelinx! The meeting was suspended. The meeting is adjourned.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u54	The meeting was resumed. The sitting has resumed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u55	Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of all of you, I urge the government to attend the sitting in good time. Members of the government, you know that questions are being asked in plenary on Thursday afternoon. First of all, it is your duty to be here, and then, of course, it shows respect for the Members of this House that you are present in time to answer the questions in the agreed manner. I hope that it will be the first time, but absolutely also the last time, during this legislature that the sitting should be suspended for that reason.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u56	Mr President, Madam Minister, the General Council of INAMI has rejected the austerity budget – barely 0.75% increase – which you proposed to it and which shows that your commitment has not been respected. In fact, last year you announced a trend of 1.5%. Then we deplored him, but you go even further. It is quite logical that your budget has been rejected by the Council, as this sector requires stability for medium- and long-term management. This decrease was not predictable and could affect the accessibility and quality of health care. We understand the seriousness of this in view of the growing precariousness in our society. Madam Minister, are you going to step in or are you going to sit down with the partners, in accordance with the spirit that your Prime Minister once again recalled? More generally, I am concerned about the financing of social security. Indeed, there is a reduction in social contributions, which account for two thirds of this funding, without guaranteed compensation. This sector already provides a significant part of the savings effort. So can you commit yourself to maintaining the level of social protection – essential for all our citizens – through alternative financing or adequate balance? I haven't heard anything from you yet. That is why I would like you to make such a commitment today.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u57	Mr President, Mr Daerden, as you know, the law of 14 July 1994 specifies the conciliation procedure to be followed for the budget. This procedure has been strictly observed. As a first step, the Insurance Committee formulated its needs, requesting $1.4 billion for 2016. Secondly, the Insurance Committee of 5 October summarized a proposal which was discussed. The result was voted on at the second session with 20 votes in favour, 15 against and 5 abstentions. The next step for the government was to submit a proposal to the General Council on 12 October. The opinion did not take into account the government's fiscal trajectory, nor the savings that had already been decided during the consultations that took place in Val Duchesse. The Committee did not take sufficient account of the budgetary framework which had been set by the Government, as the independent Budgetary Control Commission could see. I made another proposal, which obtained 10 votes in favour, 6 against and 5 abstentions. This implies that it is again for the government to decide. We will take the decision on the budget tomorrow in the Council of Ministers, after further consultations. In the proposed budget, further consultations are planned along the way, when it is time to consider the various measures.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u58	Madam Minister, I hear you're going to decide tomorrow. If I understand your answer correctly, you intend to stay on your position, the budget savings on health care that you planned and announced last week. Therefore, you do not take into account the legitimate concerns expressed by health partners. I repeat my concern about this and the need for stability by giving the necessary resources to this sector. On the other hand, I note that you have not answered the second part of my question on the balance of social security and the fears that one may have about it with the decrease in its main funding, social security contributions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u59	Madam Minister, I am tired of it, not because you were late in our sitting, but because of the problem of fine dust and its impact on the health of fetuses. Many recent studies show that fine dust is harmful to our health. I refer to the research carried out by the University of Antwerp, the open letter from Brussels doctors to the Brussels government and the conclusions of the international congress of gynecologists. I have already asked you several questions about this in committee meetings, but I am being sent from the locker to the wall. I am referred to Minister Marghem, who in turn sends me to the regional ministers, who send me back to Minister Galant and even Minister Peeters, to be sent back to Minister De Block after another question. Anyone who gives me an answer doesn't matter to me, but I get answers. Madam Secretary, you are in my view above your fellow Members, because you are the Minister of Health. I do not need two minutes to ask my question. My very clear question is what concrete measures you will take as Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u60	Mrs. Dedry, I don't have to tell you that our country is complicated, with the distributed competences. I do not agree with you when you say that I am above my fellow Members. You may think so, but I certainly don't think so. Air pollution is a complex problem and the competences in this context are rather scattered, both between the Regions, the Communities and among others the FPS Environment and Public Health. The national plan on the Environment and Health, which we are developing together with the fellow ministers of the sub-governments, the ministers of the Environment and of Well-being, has taken into account the possible effects of air pollution on our health. We therefore have a project to train health experts on the impact of environmental factors on health. We also seek to implement the World Health Organisation's guidelines. It is a long-term work; you will agree with me. Diagnosis is already a difficult issue, given the shared competences in this area. In addition, we must all work together on the measures to be taken against the fine dust. You really do me too much credit by saying that I am above my colleague, and I do not feel that I am at all in favour of this.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u61	That was, of course, symbolic, so to speak, because I consider health to be such an important competence. It wasn't about your person. Firstly, I would like to ask you to anticipate much more with your measures and to be guided by the precautionary principle. Secondly, I would like to make a specific appeal. Soon we will have the follow-up committee on Dieselgate. It can only deal with fraud, but it is also your chance to take the health aspects to heart.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u62	Mr. Chair, Madam Minister, we know that the government's strong will is to give INAMI numbers to students who have started their studies. We also know that in December 2014, you had meetings and agreements with Ministers Crevits and Marcourt and that a memorandum of understanding is to be signed. Mr. Marcourt installed a filter, but it will only be effective at the end of the first year. We will therefore have to wait for the second session after the academic year 2015-2016 to know its effectiveness. Moreover, Mr Marcourt said on his blog, a week ago: "It's not me, it's the federal". He also recently responded to an inquiry that 52% of INAMI numbers are not active in Wallonia, because they would be carried by researchers, foreigners or students who eventually did not practice medicine. The deans sent the students to the street. This is still not the place where students should normally be. They refuse to give INAMI numbers until the Memorandum of Understanding is signed. Minister, I would like to ask you a few questions to clarify the situation. Are there enough INAMI numbers for 2015-2016 students? You met the deans. What is the conclusion of this meeting? How is collaboration with the ministers of the federated entities taking place? Where's the blockage coming from? What are the complementary steps? How will the file evolve?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u63	Mr President, Madam Minister, for the umpteenth time, I am asking you, not just you, about this issue, and I will continue as long as this sword of Damocles weighs totally unacceptablely on the students who complete their medical or dental studies. I do not recall the INAMI number file, but in the last few days you keep repeating that there is no urgency and that there are enough INAMI numbers for doctors and dentists who will finish in 2016. Let me tell you, on these two points, that is not correct. Isn't it urgent? If, Madam Minister, time is running out because, by December, that is, in a month and a half, students must make their choice between general medicine or specialized medicine. They therefore need to know what the INAMI number rule will be in order to make their choice. Then you say there will be no problem, there will be enough numbers in 2016. Allow me, once again, to reply to you that this is not fair. Indeed, the Royal Decree of 2008 is extremely clear in this matter and moreover prohibits deans from giving certificates to students, because if we grant all the numbers in 2016, there will be no more numbers for 2017 and 2018. Madam Minister, it is time today for you and the Community Ministers responsible for education to find a solution for these students who are never but the victims of this pitiful series of INAMI numbers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u64	Mr President, Madam Minister, the situation for so many years has indeed been deplorable. As Minister of Health, you must allow yourself to take responsibility for bringing together the various ministers concerned around the table to conclude and sign agreements. Today, we are faced with the abuse of students and all take them hostage, from the deans, the ministers of the Communities and you too, in your capacity as federal minister, by setting the quotas that will be authorized. It is necessary to review the organization of studies and the installation of doctors in different parts of our territory, to review also the different specializations, including general medicine. You are also planning to review Royal Decree 78, which regulates and redefines health professionals. It is in this context that I really invite you to sign agreements so that it is clear, to sign a work plan if you do not arrive at definitive formulas, but we need clear references and criteria for these students.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u65	Mr Piedboeuf, Mrs Fonck, Mrs Gerkens, yes this case has been blocked for years. But the agreement reached in December 2014 between the ministers of the federated entities and myself is being fully pursued. I have personally respected all the commitments made to date. Yes, we established the dynamic cadastre, which my predecessor, Mrs. Onkelinx, had begun work on, and she knows very well that it was not easy at all. In addition, the filter was set up in the French Community by Minister Marcourt who decided that it would be applied at the end of the first academic year, for dentists and general practitioners. Everyone knows that it will be necessary to wait until September to know the effect of this filter. This is the point of view of the minister concerned, which is respected. We have to wait for the result. However, there are enough INAMI numbers. A meeting with university deans has already been organised. On that occasion, we asked them to assign their number to the students. As far as they are concerned, the deans asked us when the protocol I submitted to my colleagues in June would be signed. You should be aware that the various federated entities have requested that some corrections or adjustments be made, which has been done. The protocol was therefore again submitted to my colleagues, and at the Ministerial Conference held last Monday I was invited to continue the work. Be assured that the blockage is not at my level. As of December 2014, I proposed a durable solution for all students who are in training to avoid discussions every year. There is a need for common sense at all levels and for further negotiations with the relevant ministers of the federated entities. I put myself in the place of students and their parents who fear that their son or daughter will not be assigned an INAMI number and will not be able to practise their profession as a doctor or dentist. They're the ones you need to think about!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u66	Mr President, Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. You only confirm what I thought and I am very happy to learn that there are enough INAMI numbers for students who are in the fourth master's degree. I am also pleased to know that things are going to move forward, particularly in the amortization of excess consumption of INAMI numbers. On the other hand, I believe that the deans should give a clear signal to the students rather than send them to the streets.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u67	Madam Minister, thank you for your answers. Let us be very clear! If you consider that there are enough INAMI numbers for 2016, you are in violation of the legal framework, the Royal Decree of 2008. If you tell the deans that they only have to give the certificates for the INAMI numbers, then I ask you, Madam Minister, to write black and white to the deans of medical schools so that they give these INAMI numbers despite the known legal framework of the Royal Decree of 2008. What I see today is that our students are the victims of this political ping-pong, which must stop. Between responsible ministers, and you are many concerned, you need to find a solution quickly. I recalled the December deadline. Meanwhile, ladies and gentlemen, non-Belgian European students continue to receive INAMI numbers as doctors and dentists. This is a totally unacceptable discrimination against Belgian doctors and dentists.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u68	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. But she's not going to move the situation forward. You don't trust Minister Marcourt. You say you wait until September 2016 to see if the measures it is taking are effective. In a country where there are several competent ministers, an agreement must be reached. You must sign and consider that one minister's commitment is worth another minister's commitment to another level of authority. Without this, it is clear that the deans will not take on their responsibilities. Finally, on the number of INAMI numbers that are sufficient or not, I also express my concern about our inability to guarantee access in our territory to specialists or general practitioners in the various hospitals. The proof is that outside doctors are used to provide certain guards, services and services that we do not know how to organise in Belgium with Belgian actors.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u69	Mr President, Minister, excuse me for bothering you specifically on this issue. I sent it to the Prime Minister who sent it back to you. You have seen that, for the first time, the European Commission has ruled illegal settlements concerning the Starbucks and Fiat multinationals in the Netherlands and Luxembourg. These multinationals are not the only ones and we know that of about 50 companies, AB InBev is present for Belgium with the questioning of the excess profit ruling. We have talked a lot about the LuxLeaks case, but we could talk about the BelgoLeaks case, that is to say all these weapons of mass zero-rating, as I call them, as notional interests, the exemption of capital gains on shares and others and these famous excess profit ruling. Today, there is an avalanche of taxes for the population through the tax shift: VAT, excises, soda taxes, registry duties, not to mention the regional taxes which are added like the Turteltaks. At the same time, this government is making gifts as never before to the capital by giving it two billion reductions in employer contributions at once. In addition to the weapons of mass zero-rating, which are claimed in a brochure of the FPS Finances for Foreign Countries. My questions are as follows. Do you know the progress of the European investigation into the excess profit ruling and the AB InBev case? Can you tell us whether these rules and other tax gifts to multinationals have an effect on employment? If so, which one? Is it just a boon effect? Do you receive complaints from your French or German counterparts about the tax deductions granted to multinationals that make Belgium a tax haven for them but a tax hell for workers? Finally, as regards the specific measure of excess profit ruling, do you intend to take measures? When we read the law on this subject and compare it with the practice of the ruling service, the law stipulates that zero-rating is required in Belgium if there is taxation abroad. But practice goes in the opposite direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u70	Mr President, Mr Van Hees, you are referring to the decision of the European Commission concerning the Netherlands and Luxembourg in which the Commission has also made it clear that this decision does not have an immediate or direct impact on our country. This has been made clear by the Commission. It is certain and certain that an investigation has been initiated by the Commission, in accordance with the legislation on State aid and, in particular, profit rules – which have existed, I would point out, for the last ten years. From the outset, the government and the administrations concerned have offered their full support for this investigation, as we believe that tax transparency is essential. Moreover, for the sake of caution, no excess profit ruling has been granted since the beginning of the year. We are, of course, waiting for the final results of the European Commission's investigation. If the European Commission decides, as far as Belgium is concerned, in line with what it has decided on certain dossiers of the Netherlands and Luxembourg, then that is once again proof that the strategy followed by this government is the right one. In any event, if we want to keep jobs and economic activities here, we will have to keep a high profile on the reform, reform and restoration of competitiveness. I note that you and your party, and others, are opposed to these reforms. I hope you are aware that this is absolutely not for the benefit of the working man.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u71	Minister, there is at least one positive point. Indeed, you tell us that no more excess profit ruling is granted temporarily. It would have been better if it were definitely. You did not answer my last question about the legality of the practice of the ruling service, but I would have the opportunity to come back to this subject. What I remember most of all is your voluntarism to create jobs. That said, yesterday in committee, you told us that you do not have proof that the tax shift would increase employment. It could even reduce it. You said, "even if the job is down, it's not a big deal because we'll be down less than in the other case." If you can't guarantee jobs for the tax shift, in my opinion, it's even less so for all these corporate tax deductions, these gifts to multinationals like notional interests, excess profit ruling and others. Multinationals must no longer use Belgium as a tax haven. This is how Belgium is seen from abroad. We must stop being a tax haven for some and a tax hell for others.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u72	Madam Minister, I cannot say that I have harassed you with questions about airport management. You asked for time and I let you spend a year before I questioned you. The time is running out: from June 2016, airport management will be much more constrained, there will be difficulties that will be linked to European directives. When are you going to land with this file? I'm making a double observation today. On the one hand, for the past year, you have told us that you need time and that your priority is to defend the economic interests of the airport. We have seen the explosion of low-cost flights, the massive investments of DHL, the traffic rights granted to Ethiopian Airlines at the expense of Liège airport. And, during that time, we saw the anger of the residents rising. The number of complaints exploded in 2015, when 2014 was not a good year, you will agree. In 2015, the number of complaints increased by 45%. We have also seen that the conference of the 19 mayors of Brussels, five of whom belong to your political family and which is presided over by a mayor of your political family, has just given you a detailed, firm and clear motion on how these mayors intend this issue to be handled. To what extent will you be able to respond to this call from residents and mayors to ensure that airport management also takes into account the quality of life, health and safety of residents? I was very surprised, when reading this morning's Vif, to learn that you had, without a tender procedure, without a negotiated procedure, by agreement, entered into a contract with a law firm of which I read that he would not have any particular expertise in the field, but whose tariffs are prohibitive, of the order of double what is usually practiced by the Mobility FPS. Why and on what basis did you enter into a contract with this firm? Are there any specific reasons for these prohibitive tariffs and why you did not comply with the law on the award of public contracts?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u73	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I, as a resident of Zaventem, have not asked questions about the file on night flights for a year, but I was surprised to read this week, and I quote: 'Le MR bruxellois s'affirme dans le dossier du survol'. Two of our fellow Members, Mrs Schepmans and Mr Pivin, and the Mayor of Brussels and Mr Dedecker, are the authors of this article. They ask for different things. First of all, l'interdiction des vols de nuit. So we want to abolish all night flights as Mr Durant did in 2003. Ten tweede, the five mayors plead for the definitive stop of the overflight of the canal. This means that when taking off, one can no longer fly towards Molenbeek, but via Grimbergen and Vilvoorde so that one avoids the whole of the Brussels region. Thirdly, one also asks to extend the runway 25L to Erps-Kwerps/Kortenberg so that one can take off via Mrs Fonck's old Ikea route. This way you pass in Sterrebeek and Tervuren. When I read what the five mayors are saying, people want to stop flying over Brussels, that night flights are simply abolished and that during the day either towards Noordrand, but then deep into the Flemish Rand, or towards Leuven. Well, I totally disagree with that, which is why I am asking this question. I also think I speak on behalf of all parties in the Flemish Rand. Madam Minister, beware, because you have predecessors, Mrs Durant, Mr Anciaux, Mrs Fonck, and this is a dangerous dossier. If one chooses unilaterally certain camps, it will end up right on your head. Madam Minister, we hope that you will distance yourself from this during the coming weeks and take into account in this dossier that the airport is also in the Flemish Rand and that no aircraft will take off over Brussels.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u74	Ladies and gentlemen, I have taken note of the motion by the 19 mayors. This motion is the result of a joint reflection. I will analyse in depth the proposals of these 19 mayors. For my part, I continue to work with methodology. I want to objective the structural measures that are on the table. I'm a federal minister and I have to take into account the interests of the three regions. It is therefore premature to speak today about one or the other measure, even on night flights. I continue to work with my colleagues in the federal and regional governments. It is time to restore serenity in this debate, in the interests of all citizens.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u75	Madam Minister, the least we can say is that you have not succeeded, far from it, in bringing serenity back to this issue. On the contrary, you are unanimous against yourself! It's a first in this case! Whatever you think, the Flemish, Walloon Brabant and Brussels residents came with a common claim book for the airport. The mayors, all linguistic trends, came with a joint motion for Brussels. I would therefore really ask you to take into account these many opinions and recommendations. [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u76	A year and a half ago! I see what you just signed as a motion, ma'am. You are not even defending the motion, at the federal level, which you have just signed as the mayor of a Brussels municipality! I take note of that. I can see the contradictions, they are clear and clear! Minister, on many occasions you said that you were there to defend Zaventem airport. You are not a member of the board of directors of a private company! You are here to defend the common good, the general interest and the balance between economic interests and the interests of the quality of life and health of all residents!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u77	Thank you for the answer, Madam Secretary. We also count on serenity and hope that a balanced proposal will be made in the next few weeks or months, because the quality of life is not limited to the 19 municipalities. There are also people living around there and some even live much closer to the airport than the mayors I saw protesting. I live a mile from a runway. Other colleagues live 1 kilometer from a runway. That's in Flanders. I believe that we must monitor the quality of everyone. I call for a balanced distribution plan, which takes account of historical sensitivities. By the way, the coalition agreement says that the preferential use of jobs will not be changed. The proposal of the Brussels MR goes against the government agreement. I would ask you to look for solutions in the coming weeks in complete serenity.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u78	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, the refugee crisis puts us in the face of new difficulties and challenges every day. However, it is on a very specific framework that I would like to ask you today, namely the reception of unaccompanied foreign minors (MENA). With the crisis we are experiencing, it is almost 25 to 30 miners who arrive in our territory on a daily basis. If we continue with this increase, for the year 2015, we will be about 3,500 minors who will have launched an asylum procedure in our territory. By comparison, last year there were 2 to 3 MENA per day. It's a big difference. Many initiatives have indeed been taken in this area. I take as an example what has been done at the Fedasil center in Rixensart with the pilot experience now in place to accommodate young mothers who arrive pregnant or with their children. It's a great experience. I congratulate you, of course. However, the situation becomes critical because, according to the latest figures, there are only 15 places available for these minors. However, we know that the reception must be very specific, given what they have experienced in their country of origin (tortures, very difficult situations of life, etc.).). Mr Secretary of State, what steps do you intend to take to remedy this situation? We know that some families are ready to become foster families for these MENA. Is this a possible solution for you? Of course, a very special follow-up will have to be carried out. When the MENA arrived in Belgium, they were followed by the service of the Tutelles. Do you currently have enough guardians to cover this request? Do you have enough resources? How is the distribution between French-speaking and Dutch-speaking tutors made?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u79	Mr President, Mr Crusnière, this is a very important issue and I am glad that we can have this debate on MENA today. I will mention three figures. First of all, we are now experiencing a 760 per cent increase over last year. It's huge! This means taking action. I've already taken some. I opened 145 "tamp" seats. I have opened additional places in the Observation and Orientation Centres and there are the opening of two complementary centres specifically for the MENA in Woluwe-Saint-Pierre and Holsbeek. In other words, I'm taking action. For the moment, seats are still available. Now the maximum was reached. There are many unaccompanied underage foreigners arriving every day. At present we are faced with a structural shortage of places for some target groups, in particular the under 14 year olds. That is why there will be further consultations with the Länder tomorrow. I believe that we need to deal with this as quickly as possible, especially for the youngest target group among the minors. As far as foster families are concerned, I am open to discussion. The latter is already under way. But we must be aware that this is a matter of regional competence. In addition, the Guardianship Service is under the jurisdiction of the Minister of Justice. However, meetings have been organized by our two departments so that we can discuss this issue. I think I can already say that the number of guardians will be increased this week. We will appoint new guardians this week and next week the Minister for Justice, Mr Geens, will recruit new guardians. In short, there too, we are taking steps to give all NBMVs a place, so that they can be well accompanied, because they are a very vulnerable target group.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u80	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your answers. As far as guardianship is concerned, you have given us good news. Indeed, the needs are enormous. I therefore intend to ask the Minister of Justice about this. However, the reception of unaccompanied minors must be very specific. I hear you're in favour of foster families. The federated entities do have a role to play. You discussed the matter in a consultation committee. On the other hand, I believe that a working group had been scheduled. Unfortunately, it has not yet been put in place. But in view of the number of minors applying for asylum every day, it would be high time for him to get to work so that together we can find a dignified solution.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u81	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 21 October 2015, I propose to you on the agenda of this afternoon's plenary session the proposal of resolution by Mr Luk Van Biesen and Mrs Valerie Van Peel, Nathalie Muylle, Ine Somers, Sybille de Coster-Bauchau, Karin Jiroflée and Catherine Fonck for the performance by the Court of Auditors of two audits in the health insurance sector and an audit by the federal public institutions supervising sickness funds (Nos 1218/1 to 5). In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 21 October 2015, I propose that you include in the agenda of this afternoon's plenary session the motion for a resolution by Mr Luk Van Biesen and Mrs Valerie Van Peel, Nathalie Muylle, Ine Somers, Sybille de Coster-Bauchau, Karin Jiroflée and Catherine Fonck on the conduct by the Court of Auditors of two audits in the mutualities sector and an audit of federal public bodies controlling mutualities (Nos. 1218/1 to 5). Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u82	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u83	Mr President, we discussed the draft bill before us at the meeting of the Social Affairs Committee on 1 October. Minister De Block started with the introductory presentation on the introduction of flexi-jobs with the new concept associated with it, the net flexiloon. This draft law is also about increasing the maximum number of overtime, making the gross of certain overtime net. If employees are already employed by another employer for at least four fifths, they can be employed as a person with a flexi-job in the hospitality sector for an agreed wage, the flexiloon. The flexi-jobs also include full social rights for pensions, unemployment, sickness benefit, accidents at work and occupational diseases. A framework agreement must always be concluded in advance. The number of overtime worked is increased to 300 for enterprises without a white checkout and 360 for firms with a white checkout, with a maximum of 143 overtime per four months. Minister Van Overtveldt addresses a number of aspects related to the fight against tax fraud. The introduction of the white register dates back to 2008. The aim was to tackle undeclared work, tax fraud and unfair competition. It was finally introduced on a voluntary basis on 1 January 2014. The general application was introduced on 1 January 2015. This should have entered into full force on 1 January 2016. According to the Minister, notification of the catering industry is absolutely necessary, but additional measures are needed to support the survival of this important sector. The sector has 55 000 restaurants, 125 000 staff and 40 000 self-employed. Around 30 000 companies are subject to the obligation of a registered cash register. Secretary of State Tommelein considers the present design necessary to give oxygen to the catering industry. The coalition agreement also provides for a number of measures to be taken. Now 6 000 units work with the white register. It is therefore necessary to strengthen the measures, as unfair competition increases as the number of cash registers increases. During the general discussion several members intervened. Mr Spooren took the floor to express his satisfaction with the draft law implementing the government agreement, which was part of a comprehensive strategy to promote employment through reduction of burdens and flexibility. Mr Daerden opposed the introduction of a dual regime for workers and the internal social dumping that this might lead to. In his view, the draft law upsets the balance achieved by the social partners for overtime. He is also tabling amendments. Mr Clarinval pointed out that the catering sector was particularly labour-intensive, faced with tough competition and had small profit margins. According to him, wage costs are the problem in Belgium. The flexi jobs can partially solve that. In my turn, I refer to the economic importance and characteristics of the catering sector, which employs many low-skilled people and needs more flexibility in difficult times. I would also urge an evaluation. If there is, she will have to check whether displacement effects are being caused and whether the regular jobs are not being replaced by flexi-jobs. Mrs Lijnen refers to the proposal she put forward in the Senate at the time and is convinced that this bill will effectively counter undeclared work. Mrs Kitir is aware that the catering sector has very specific problems and specific needs. However, it has a number of reservations. For example, the legislative proposal reduces the initially proposed minimum wage from 9.5 euros to 8.82 euros. It also finds it difficult to organise effective monitoring of compliance with the measure and fears abuses. Mrs Willaert wants to work together with the government in the catering industry, but not in the way the government proposes in the present bill. In her view, the bill will not provide more jobs and is a patchwork of different regimes for the same work. It is also cynical that the aim is to combat undeclared work in the sector by abolishing social and tax burdens on overtime. Mr de Lamotte stressed the particular importance of the specific problems of the catering sector and the need to develop new legislation. Mr Van Hees did not think it right for the government to propose the proposed arrangements as a passport for the introduction of the registered cash register system in the hospitality sector. The compensation for the white checkout was already introduced under the previous government and consisted of a VAT reduction. Mr Lachaert endorsed the draft law, which would meet the needs in the field. He believes that it even exceeds the expectations of the catering sector. He also nuanced the criticism voiced by some speakers. Mr Gilkinet, like previous speakers, drew attention to the specific nature of the catering sector. He called for alternative financing of social security and felt that there was a need for sustainable stabilisation of employment in the catering sector. Working conditions and wages are such that job turnover is higher than in other sectors. Mr Massin said that the proposed arrangements did not take account of the aspirations and comments of the trade union organizations. Finally, the president, Mr Van Quickenborne, indicated that the reform could not have been achieved during previous periods of government. The speaker was also convinced that flexi jobs would benefit the sector. Those were the Commissioners' statements in a nutshell. I refer, of course, to the report for the full explanation. The various ministers present then give a comprehensive answer to the many questions put by the members of the committee. Minister Peeters states that the scope of the draft law is limited to Joint Committee 302. He also said that at this stage no consideration was being given to extending the scheme to other sectors. Minister De Block sees in the draft law a reduction in the burden that can create jobs in favour of a sector that provides jobs for many workers. Minister Van Overtveldt stresses that tax deductibility is retained in the case of flexi-jobs. Finally, Secretary of State Tommelein lists a number of problems facing the catering sector: flexibility, total daytime availability, meeting customer expectations in terms of services and prices. Finally, the reply of many Members follows.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u84	I would like to say, on behalf of the N-VA Group, that we are very pleased that after the introduction of the white cash register in the hospitality sector, we are now also going to have a system of flexi-jobs and a relaxation of overtime arrangements. The measure will also take place after the opportunity work has already been extended from 100 days to 200 days. With this draft law, the government implements an important part of the coalition agreement. Indeed, the design fits into a more general strategy to save or create jobs through reduction of burdens and flexibility. Moreover, in this case it is also about a massive transformation from undeclared work to official employment. We must not forget that this brings benefits to almost all the parties involved. Workers will build up social rights in formal employment and, through the new overtime scheme and the flexi-job regime, they will also net more if they work more hours. This should not be underestimated in a sector with relatively low wages. Budgetaryly, the measure is likely to be a cost-neutral operation for the government, as it can be expected that the reduced social and tax contributions will be offset by the special employers' contribution of 25% to flexi jobs, which will now be performed in white instead of black. The design also offers an advantage for the catering operators. It is a very labour-intensive sector with a lot of low-skilled labour. This sector is now being supported and kept alive. The measures will in particular ensure that the white register becomes a viable story, even a success story. In general, the text is an example of legislation that finally takes into account the reality in the field of both the catering operators and those employed in the catering industry. In order to achieve that positive result, it was necessary to leave a number of paved paths and opt for a radically different and actually bold approach to reducing burdens and flexibility. Our group understands the reluctance of some in the hemisphere, but the N-VA is confident that this changed approach will really work and that the initiative must be given plenty of opportunities. The discussions in committee have also shown that there will be an in-depth evaluation. This is important for any legislative initiative and all the more important for the proposed initiative, because it is really something new. On the basis of this evaluation, we can assess whether there is a need to adjust. We can also look at the possibility of extending the scheme to other sectors. Today it is absolutely too early to comment on this. The coalition agreement also states that we are at least looking at that. I believe that it is also our job to do so. Then the results we will achieve in the coming year could serve as an example for other sectors.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u85	Mr President, Minister, Secretary of State, today the government wants to create a specific status for some Horeca workers, flexi-job. For my group, a worker equals one worker and all workers in a sector must be subject to the same rules: equal work, equal working conditions! These working conditions must be established with due respect for the social partners, while respecting social consultation. These are fundamental principles for us. We are therefore opposed to the introduction of a dual system for workers, to competition between different statutes, which could lead to genuine internal social dumping. Social dumping between countries, between regions is unacceptable and, Mr Secretary of State, we join on the subject. You're making proposals. We dropped them off. We want to work together on the theme. There's no doubt. But in this case, we are taking the risk of creating unfair competition between workers within our country. It's simply irresponsible. And yet, this government is taking the risk of creating a new form of employment, flexi-job. Flexi-job is dangerous, especially in the absence of beacons. He's going to exclude some workers from the Horeca. It will, by granting them a favourable tax and parafiscal system which, without any sign of a sign, will become the rule, deregulate employment in the sector. It will allow unscrupulous employers to rely mostly, if not exclusively, on precarious and cheap labour. In his statement last week here in the gallery, the Prime Minister spoke of "jobs, jobs, jobs". I'm afraid he was actually thinking about flexi-jobs, flexi-jobs, flexi-jobs. So let's be clear! The horeca sector is a sector that deserves special attention - Mr Secretary of State, I told you in committee, it is a sector that we know and love like you - because of the important role it plays in our society, particularly in terms of the volume of jobs it provides. We are aware of the difficulties in this sector. In fact, there are many failures of small farmers. In these circumstances, black work can be conceived for some as a survival strategy, which obviously cannot continue. Let us not forget that, in the past, measures have already been taken, in particular in terms of VAT, reduction of contributions and occasional work. The current government is therefore not the first to be concerned with the sector. The statements of some members of the majority leave little doubt: the aim is to pave the way for the deregulation of relations between employers and workers – always to the detriment of workers. It is a test bench before generalisation to other sectors, as has already been mentioned by several of you and by some party presidents. As is often the case with this government, linear measures are taken without regard to the structure and diversity of the sector. The most shocking is that no limit is set in terms of flexi-jobs, either with regard to employers or workers. This will lead to unfair competition, particularly in terms of schedules. This will be the case between employers if some use flexi-jobs and others do not, as the Council of State has pointed out. As regards the amount of the flexi-salary, it is less than the minimum in force in the sector. Moreover, no baraemic increase is possible. Only a reduced social contribution is foreseen. In short, this measure undermines the protection of workers and weakens the financing of social security. In general, we do not share the approach of introducing low-wage mechanisms, in which workers have less rights and are permanently available to their employers. On the other hand, the government wants to increase the number of authorized overtime hours. If this had already been undertaken before, it was in accordance with social consultation. The aim should not be to put pressure on the worker by making his private life and working life irreconcilable. For these overtime hours, which have been increased to 360 hours, there is no provision for contributions. These measures will make workers more dependent on their employer than ever before. These measures run counter to a good balance, a healthy balance between private and professional life. These measures increase the risk of underfunding of social security. These measures affect access to employment for an unemployed person who has not already had a job in the sector. With these measures, your government is clearly committed to the German mini-jobs or the "zero hour contracts" in force in the United Kingdom. We do not share this vision of the world of work. We want sustainable businesses, which guarantee sustainable jobs. We have, as the rapporteur has pointed out, tabled many amendments, in a constructive spirit and with a view to marking your approach. Nothing! For these reasons, we will reject your bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u86	Mr President, Madam Minister, Mr Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, the MR, unlike the Socialist Party, welcomes the arrival of this project on the table of our Assembly. Horeca is a labour-intensive sector with 55,000 establishments, 120,000 workers and 40,000 self-employed. It is also characterised by increased competition, a low profitability margin and a labour demand dependent on exogenous factors: the weather, the tourist season and many other variable phenomena. This therefore requires great flexibility in the management of workers and employers. Successive Governments were fully aware of the difficulties faced by this sector for many years. Answers, sometimes ad hoc, sometimes structural, such as the reduction in VAT, have been provided, but they are still insufficient today. Indeed, the upcoming arrival of the smart card in Horeca establishments makes the worst fear in the sector. Although we believe that this is a necessary tool to effectively combat social and tax fraud in the sector, we are convinced that accompanying measures are necessary if we are to save jobs and businesses. To help the sector, we believe that action is needed on labour costs and on labour flexibility in this sector. I will not remind you that the labour force in Belgium costs 39 euros per hour, whereas the average in neighbouring countries is 34 euros. The measures taken in terms of support for the economy and purchasing power under tax shift 1 and 2 will obviously reduce the wage disadvantage. However, they will not address the need for more flexibility in this sector. Indeed, our labour legislation is far too rigid and is no longer in line with the realities of the economic world and the evolution of our consumption habits. The creation of flexi-jobs is a response to this lack of flexibility. The introduction of flexi-jobs is a real opportunity, both for the horeca sector itself and for all workers who want to supplement their income through flexi-wages. We will therefore fight fraud and make work in the dark less attractive. We will support existing employment and promote the creation of new jobs. Flexi-jobs can be defined as the possibility for a worker who already has at least one 4/5th time job to supplement his income officially in the horeca sector, while creating additional social rights. In practice, thanks to a flexi-job, a worker will receive an additional wage of at least €9.50 per hour, which includes the salary and the holiday fee. This is a win-win operation, as employers will benefit from reduced employer contributions of 25%. Flexi-hours will be fully defi-calized up to 360 hours per year and will open up additional social rights. Therefore, contrary to what Mr Daerden has just said in the rostrum, the use of flexi-jobs is marked as it will require the establishment of a framework convention. There will be recourse to employment contracts and declarations of workers' presence, constantly updated through the Dimona mechanism. There will be no discrimination, Mr. Daerden, nor dumping. All employers will have equal access to this system. In addition, regular monitoring will be conducted and an objective evaluation will be implemented at regular intervals to ensure that they meet the needs of the sector, on the one hand, and the government's objectives, on the other. This evaluation of the flexi-job system will have to check whether the objectives in terms of job creation are being realized, whether the return effects are positive in terms of taxation and para-taxation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u87	Mr Clarinval, I was talking about markings such as we put them in our amendments, namely a limited number of recourses to flexijobs for the employer and a maximum number of flexijob hours for the worker. That is what we mean by "tags", which do not exist and which were included in our amendments in committee, amendments which you have unfortunately refused.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u88	These beacons are far too restrictive. We believe that there is a need for a more free system, which will allow great flexibility. If, of course, negative phenomena occurred, the system's evaluations could then correct them. As things stand, we want to allow great freedom in this new system. Mr Daerden, I take the bet that this assessment will be positive! You will see that we will even be able to consider, on the basis of this assessment, an extension to other sectors. We will be able to study the issue after the evaluation. In addition, in this bill, there are also a number of changes in other areas. I will quote them quickly. There are measures to modify the criteria for the determination of aggravated risk in occupational accidents. There are changes made in the secondment policy, at the request of the European Commission. At the eco-cheques level, we are responding to a request from the CNT. We are making changes in the status of the caregiver so that it is no longer a pathology recognition. Last but not least, the amendments were made to register presences in the meat sector in order to limit social dumping as far as possible. Several speakers complained today that social dialogue had not been respected or that they did not give us sufficient confidence in social dialogue. It should be noted that most of the texts presented today are the result of social dialogue and are the result of this work. Today, the government is asking us to validate them. Again, there is a gap between the statements of the opposition and the actions of the government. It is clear here that the concertation is respected!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u89	Mr. Clarinval, I am surprised at your comments. You're talking about social consultation. Does that mean that the trade unions in the horeca sector have approved this project?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u90	The unions were probably protesting with you, Mr. Van Hees.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u91	Was it a social consultation with the bosses?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u92	If I were you, I wouldn't comment, Mr. Van Hees. When we see what happened on Monday, I wouldn't be very proud to be in your situation today. I wouldn't dare say that some of you have blood on your hands, but almost. I'm talking to Mr. Van Hees.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u93	I find these words unacceptable. I wonder what blood you're talking about.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u94	I wasn't talking about you, Mr. Van Hees, I was talking about the unions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u95	You're talking to me by saying you, but you're not talking to me. You should see your conjugation again, Mr. Clarinval.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u96	Don't exaggerate!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u97	I'd like you to answer the bottom line, because talking about blood on my hands is unacceptable, but in addition you're using it to not answer the bottom line. It seems to me that the Horeca unions did not accept these flexi-jobs.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u98	If you want an answer on the consultation, I was talking about the five other measures that are the result of the consultation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u99	You say that this will limit fraud in the sector. I do not understand how, with flexi-jobs for which there will no longer be a written contract. In case of control in the horeca establishments, people will be asked if they really work there, if they have a contract. Well, they won't have a contract! Is that how you intend to fight fraud? By the absence of a written contract. I'd like you to explain it to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u100	That's not true, there will be Dimona statements that will be made every day. And there'll be the cash register. All this can be clearly controlled, contrary to what you say.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u101	Mr President, I would like to ask you to use the means that are yours and to have the words that are unqualified removed from the Minutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u102	Mr President, to make it clear, I would like to have these terms removed because I did not say that Mr. Van Hees had blood on his hands.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u103	Mr. Van Hees, rightly, had the right of reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u104	That's not what I said. You know that very well.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u105	Mr. Clarinval denounced the interpretation given by Mr. Van Hees. The incident is therefore closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u106	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, to conclude, once adopted, these new measures will enable the horeca sector to reduce the wage cost but also and above all to guarantee its viability through a transparent and flexible system. This system should enable part-time work to evolve into full-time and quality jobs. It must enable jobs to be created, work to be combated and thus contribute more to the financing of our social security system. It's new, it's innovative, but let's not be afraid of change. My group wants to reform and, through this text, we clearly demonstrate this.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u107	Mr President, Secretary of State, Minister and Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, today we have the draft bill on the catering industry before us. It is a preliminary piece of a journey to inform the sector, first and foremost. Many initiatives have been taken to this end in the past, but not always with success. Everyone is convinced that this sector cannot afford to speak of 60% - out of law. Together with this measure, we will certainly welcome the white register as an instrument to ensure this. The Council of State stated this week that the rules on the white checkout need to be changed, but yesterday the Secretary of State confirmed that the two are inextricably linked: the introduction of this measure now, and the introduction of the white checkout later. The white register can therefore by no means be an argument for revoking a delay. The catering sector is a sector that we know well, Mr Secretary of State. We'd love to go there. One stays a little longer than the other. It is a sector that is well developed in Belgium. The 150 000 cases are an important binding factor for our social fabric. We have to take care of that. Moreover, employment in the hospitality industry is very close to our heart. Many low-skilled and many young people are employed there. It has therefore never been our ambition to achieve a fully white sector in the short term and thereby put employment at risk. That was absolutely never the intention. From the outset compensation was provided for, including in previous initiatives. I would like to remind you of a reduction in VAT for the catering sector, a flat-rate reduction in social contributions and a more favourable treatment of casual work. This has all been done in the past, as well as cheaper overtime. This bill adds some additional benefits and accompanying measures, such as the possibility of adding jobs for people who already work four fifths somewhere else. Some call that flexi jobs. There will also be an increase in overtime. The current maximum of 143 overtime per year increases to 300 or 360 overtime, depending on whether you already have a white checkout. It is quite remarkable that this number is so greatly increased. In the past, this has hardly been used. More overtime could be requested, but in the past hardly any use has been made of it. I am therefore very interested in the effect of this draft law, which now also makes these extra overtime cheaper. We stress that under no circumstances can it be the intention to extend this approach to other sectors. The approach is very specific to the catering industry to make the sector whiter. As far as we're concerned, that's it. For some people, the arrangement for updating is nice to be able to earn something besides the job they already have. In order to enable additional people at peak moments, the measure for the catering industry will certainly come in handy. At the same time, however, we would like to point out that it does not create any new jobs. It's about more flexible organisation and deployment of people who already have a job. That is why we want to express our concerns preventively in order to ensure that there is sufficient care that jobs are provided to assist in the work of students and do not replace regular employment in the sector. Yesterday and during the discussion in committee, it was confirmed that an evaluation of the accompanying measures is certainly expected. This will allow us to check whether the sector is becoming whiter and what effect the measures have on employment. The Secretary of State has committed himself to this and we will abide by it. It confirmed that the measures could be adjusted if necessary in consultation with the sector. He has our full support for that. However, the evaluation should not only focus on the viability of the sector, but also on the fact that operators in the catering industry remain the main employer of the low-skilled and the income generated by social security. It goes without saying that social dialogue must play its full role in the evaluation. You know our group. Mr Verherstraeten said that last week.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u108	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, what we are doing here is making a bit of history. My colleague from the N-VA also pointed out earlier that the system we are introducing here today is a completely new system. What we want to introduce here today is to reward people who want to work. There are a lot of people today who want to work, who want to earn extra money and who need that money, for example to buy a second car, organize their children's communion party or go on holiday. People want to work, including in the catering industry. Mr Daerden, you claim to know the sector well, but we also know the sector very well. What we were often told when we were talking to catering operators was that their staff wanted to be paid in black. Their staff wants to come to work. It wants and can be used flexibly. However, their staff do not want what they officially earn to be added to their wages, which puts them in a higher tax base. So they want to earn in black. So the catering operators can only pay their staff in black. This simulates an antisocial circuit. After all, people working in black today are not protected. There are no social rights against it. Anyone who gets sick in a black system gets zero euros. The flexi jobs that we are about to approve here today give people money in their hands and allow people to earn extra money within a simple, transparent, flexible system. Work will be rewarded. On top of that rights can be earned. That's new in our society. Contrary to the previous speaker, I would like to point out that there is one sentence in the coalition agreement that I know very well, namely: 'In the event of a positive assessment, the system will be extended to other sectors.' We will see to it that enlargement takes place. After all, it is important and will give oxygen. After all, I am convinced that many people want to make extra money today. That is the philosophy of this agreement. It is not just about earning extra money but also about the people who are already employed in the sector today and working overtime. Those overtime hours were expensive in the past. Here the government goes beyond what was planned in the coalition agreement. The government has listened to the concerns of the sector. The sector made it very clear that if only the flexi-job system were introduced, problems would arise with regard to fixed staff. The sector also wanted to give permanent staff the opportunity to work overtime. So an overtime system was created in which gross net. I believe that this is particularly important because people who want to work must be rewarded for it. That's what's on the table here today. It's also a relief. We want to give people the freedom to make their own choices. I believe that today we are faced with an important choice. Do we choose freedom, flexibility and more money in the wallet? It will certainly boost the economy. This is a choice that our group will make. The proposal was once launched in the Senate and entered into the coalition agreement. A year later, we are in Parliament with it. We can say very clearly that this government and this majority are working very hard and that the catering industry in our country will improve.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u109	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Secretary of State, the sp.a is aware that the catering sector is a very specific sector with specific problems and special needs. It is a particularly labour-intensive sector, which, of course, weighs heavily on labour costs. We are not in itself opposed to appropriate legislation for this sector. We understand that this government wants to intervene. She wants to alert the sector. In the healthcare sector, warnings refer to people over 80 years of age, but I do not think this is the issue. It's mainly about entering the white register. Mr Secretary of State, I'm counting on you to cross right over. If you approve these regulations, you must also ensure that the white checkout is properly implemented at the same time, i.e. through the new flexi-jobs regulation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u110	Mrs De Coninck, I am the first to admit that various measures have been taken in this area in previous governments, including Mr Crombez and Mr Devlee. The entire legislation on the introduction of the registered cash register system dates back five years. What is now being asked of this government will also happen. Today, measures are being adopted to make it possible to work with the registered cash register from 1 January, especially in the hospitality stores that are included in the law in this area. I know there are other problems. What is being asked of the current government, which will be implemented, unlike previous governments, which have made concessions and taken measures, but which have never introduced the registered cash register system. We shall certainly introduce it. Don't worry about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u111	Mr Secretary of State, I'm trying to be intellectually honest. I am simply asking you to link these two cases; I am counting on that. I'm not looking back. I'm trying to be positive, and I'm looking forward. There may be an arrangement. Moreover, I do not understand why the government always reacts so defensively. We have also tabled an amendment because we do not want to be naive. We find it rather regrettable that the evolution of flexi-wage is linked to the index, but not, for example, to baremic increases. How will you deal with that in the future? A second element is that the arrangements must be able to be monitored efficiently. It has been said a number of times here, including by members of the majority, that a thorough evaluation is needed. From my professional past, I know how difficult control and social inspection is. Well, I do not think that the draft law is sufficient to guarantee that there will be control, although it can of course be further worked out by all those sensible heads. My concern concerns the regular circuit, which should not be threatened. Members of staff who are now full-time could be dismissed or only given a four-fifth contract. Constructions can also be set up, for example when an employer who runs several cases asks his staff to combine a four-fifth function in one case with a flexi job in the other case, or vice versa. I want to give more freedom and flexibility, but, as in many other cases, freedom also means taking responsibility. This means that employers must also take responsibility for dealing with this regulation correctly, in spirit. Control is still good, to see if they succeed. Do not let your so-called good regulation be destroyed by a number of people who abuse the system. As far as overtime is concerned, you call the system a relaxation, but if one looks closely at it, it turns out that you are actually abolishing overtime. They don't exist anymore. Mr Vercamer has just said that Mr Tommelein has apparently provided this information that 143 hours are the reality today. Who performs it in white? Most people don't touch it. Now you will extend those hours to 360. I therefore hope that, after a year of evaluation, we will see the result in reality.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u112	Mrs De Coninck, first of all I would like to congratulate you on abstaining on the draft in committee. This shows that you do feel for flexibilisation and more freedom. I also hope that you will continue this abstention here in plenary, unlike Ecolo-Green, which voted against. For once you are also in the progressive camp. Green is in the conservative camp. As far as overtime is concerned, some here claim to know the catering industry well. Well, the people who go on the ground know that, because of the grievous scheme and its heavy valuation, a lot of overtime is simply done in black. That's the reality in the hospitality business. Those hours are by definition not indicated. If you say that you see little overtime done today, that is just a result of these crushing regulations. So it's gonna be 360 hours. On a weekly basis, it's about 6 to 7 hours.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u113	It's about 48 hours of work a week.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u114	This indeed means that one can add up to 46 or 47 hours. The people who know the reality of the catering industry, for example the cooks, people who are behind a stove.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u115	I know him pretty well.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u116	There are a lot of cooks that don't limit themselves to 38 hours in the kitchen. There are people who want to knock more hours, for example because they see that a shift in a restaurant takes longer. It's out of control. One does not know when customers will arrive and what time the restaurant will close. What we are doing now is adapting the regulations to reality so that we can go into legality and there is enough room to ensure that all these workers are properly employed. In that sense, this answers perfectly to the questions of the catering industry. Mrs De Coninck, I hope you are well aware of the fact that a lack of flexibility puts a sector in difficulty, prevents it from working in that sector and even destroys it. That's what we're changing now.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u117	Mr President, Mr President of the Committee on Social Affairs, I shall speak as clearly as possible after Mrs De Coninck to present my group's views on this text. I cannot accept that you consider any reform to be progressive. It is true that this is a reform – we cannot deny it – but it leads to deregulation. But it is regulation that protects the weakest. In committee, I asked specific questions about the quality of contracts. I will intervene in this regard, among other things with regard to the Dimona, which does not give the worker the ability to check whether it has actually been declared. If your majority had simply been able to accept the amendments that we had tabled, we could have discussed them. This would also have been the case if, on the basis of the opinion of the National Labour Council, the consultation had taken place until the end. But your majority oppresses the most fragile workers, which I cannot accept. It is not about being progressive or modern, it is about protecting workers and proposing balanced reforms that lead to progress rather than regression.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u118	Colleague, may I draw your attention to the fact that there is no regulation of undeclared work and that people employed in black today are the most fragile people? With this system, with simple and transparent regulations, we want to protect all people who want to be employed in the catering industry.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u119	Mr Van Quickenborne, I am quite familiar with the catering sector. You also know that chef's job is one of the most stressful jobs and that most heart attacks happen in chefs. There is a difference with flexible working. One could say, for example, that 48 hours work one week and only 20 hours work the other. That's flexible working. If one wants to have a cook available for so many hours, one could decide to employ two cooks. That's perfect. What are you defending? You are defending that people have to work 48 hours a week and in the long term, because at the same time you say that people have to have longer careers. It's not the same thing. One has to make choices at some point. I would like to recognise the hospitality sector as a sector because it is also important for social capital in society. People meet up there and do nice things together. I have this openness, which you do not have because certain things are taboo with you. I would like to think about having better measures there, but you should not want to look from a perspective. I have the same concern as Mr Vercamer. Care must be taken to ensure that this sector does not become a sector with only job students and flexi-jobs. Make no mistake, it's not just low-skilled people who work in the hospitality sector. As in many other sectors, high-skilled workers also work there. We must respect this and we must ensure that they are able to perform their jobs in a long and healthy manner and that the conditions for flexibility and overtime are created. We will therefore abstain. We're just saying you can't be naive. Check it out, and after a year, we'll find out what the reality is about overtime.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u120	Mrs De Coninck, I repeat once again that we are going to carry out an evaluation in any case. I'm pretty comfortable with that. It's a bit of a problem that I've come across regularly over the last few months: they're throwing everything in a pile.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u121	I'm not throwing everything in a pile.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u122	We will allow overtime which is much cheaper than the present, albeit 143 that are not used. The reality is that, with this measure, we are halving overtime in the hospitality sector in terms of cost, while employees working overtime in the hospitality sector will be left with more to do. That's a very different story than the flexi jobs for people who are switched on at peak moments.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u123	I know.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u124	One thing is clear, Mrs De Coninck: the chef in the restaurant will never be in a flexi job, which will never be a job student. In the flexi-jobs there are people who serve, who do the terraces, who jump into peak moments. It is important and is often forgotten: we will allow gross overtime to be equal to net but at the time when someone is full-time. Anyone who knows the catering industry a little bit, I dare say that I know him a little bit, not only on the side of the bar, Mr Daerden and Mr Vercamer, but also by speaking very much with the people from the catering industry. Ra, ra, ra. They are officially paid part-time and for the rest under the table. That is what we want to avoid with these measures.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u125	I hope that will work, Mr Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u126	Mr President, in view of the turn of the debate, I would like to make two preconditions for my speech. First of all, the horeca sector, given its specificity, does indeed deserve differential treatment. What are its specific features? It is a labour-intensive sector that cannot be relocated, unlike many other economic activities. It also employs less skilled workers, and over a one-day, one-week period, it has peaks of demands that must be managed. We are aware of this and believe that it is necessary to be able to provide specific responses to this sector, without deregulating the labour market or forcing workers to spend more than 50 hours a week at the expense of their family life. Action has already been taken. They were called back. There is the reduction of VAT in the horeca sector which was decided by a previous government. At the same time, it was decided to set up these smart boxes which are still not installed. It'll be your responsibility in a year or two, Mr. Tommelein. You haven't been here long enough. It was your predecessors who did not act. We have specific proposals for the horeca sector, in connection with reductions in social contributions for the lowest wages, offset at the level of social security by alternative financing, which the current government does not do. There are also measures in terms of training. A major challenge for the horeca sector is to be able to retain its staff and not to see its workers when they are trained to leave. There is a way to respond specifically to the specific issues of the horeca sector, different from what you propose. I'm coming to my second preliminary. Mr Tommelein and Mr Van Quickenborne, yes, we are in favour of work. We want more people to be able to work and get a decent salary, but it must not be any kind of work. It must be a well-paid job. Why? We are in the context of what you call flexi-jobs, which in itself is a shocking name. Sectoral scales should not be used. It must also be a good job. This covers both maximum daily and weekly hours as well as real social security rights and for as many people as possible. If there is such a surplus of demands in the horeca sector, requiring extras – which you call flexi-jobs, i.e. people who come to work on an ad hoc basis – or overtime, why not encourage the creation of real jobs so that more people work under open-ended contracts, with real wages, real social security rights, a capacity to borrow from the bank and settle down while being able to enjoy a real family life? It is not the choice that is expressed here – and that is what we are concerned about. We therefore wanted to correct it by means of the amendments that we have tabled. The flexibilisation of work as you see it is really problematic in terms of workers' rights and quality of life, in a context that has been reminded by others and where you want to extend the length of careers without having defined the concept of "heavy work". What about the cook standing in his kitchen, who is under stress at midday and evening service, 13 hours a day or seventeen hours a week?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u127	Mr Gilkinet, I do not doubt your good intentions, but I think you are somewhat strange. What you are saying is that we want to introduce measures to change practices that do not exist today. We are introducing measures to improve a real situation on the ground. I am aware that there is a great deal of social employment in the catering industry. There are a lot of people out there who can't get to work in other places.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u128	Yeah, that's what I said.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u129	However, you must know one thing: a lot of these people are in the inability to have a full-time job in the hospitality industry, because they are paid for a large part in black. This also means, Mr Gilkinet, that these people have no or insufficient social rights, that they do not have a safety net, that if they want to make an investment, like buying a house and going to the bank, they will not be able to present the necessary wage sheets there to buy a house. That is the reality, Mr Gilkinet. With the measure we are taking, we want to improve the social status of workers in the hospitality sector in such a way that they no longer have to work in the black, but can work properly and in such a way that workers who want to work alongside their normal job on weekends can do so in flexi jobs and no longer have to work in black. We are providing for a proper social system for a real situation in practice. You are wrong to say that we are taking antisocial measures. As far as catering is concerned, it is the most social measures a government has ever taken.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u130	Mr Tommelein, I am amazed to hear you speak on behalf of the sector, its demands and its concerns. I am astonished at how you do it and how you deal with it through your bill. I know the horeca area well. I met bosses of restaurants and hotels. They are not seeking your proposals. They say they have registered workers who work part-time and supplement them with work in the dark, which is sometimes interesting in ringing and stumbling cash, but which does not allow them to finance their social security or pension. They have a turnover at the level of staff that is huge, because living and working conditions are difficult to endure. What do they want? To keep their workers, because they offer them training (investment in time and money). They call for them to obtain a full-time equivalent of work, not part-time, supplemented by overtime, thereby simplifying taxation and social security contributions so that the system is clear. That is not what you are proposing. Also, I don't think you're talking in the name of the interest of the entire horeca sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u131	Mr. Secretary of State, we can start with the same observation as yours. Indeed, in the horeca sector, overtime is numerous as well as work in the dark. What conclusions are drawn? It is a question of giving workers real contracts that allow them to enjoy real rights and a real salary, by sharing the work available in the horeca sector with differentiated conditions, which take account of its specificity. The reform you are considering is rather to transform the benefits of the black economy into work paid for at a lower wage with lower social rights. So you create underemployment and no real jobs! The proposals we have made with my colleague Evita Willaert for Groen aim to create real jobs with appropriate conditions for workers in the horeca sector. Moreover, what you have imagined opens the door to engineering and dumping between companies, and even competition between workers themselves. It will indeed be more interesting for an employer to hire a flexi-job worker for overtime rather than to properly supplement the wages, working time and contract of a worker already in place.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u132	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u133	Yes, Mr. Tommelein! I have a part-time worker. I've got work to do for more than half time. Do I complete my part-time worker's contract to make it full-time, or do I hire flexi-job people that I pay at 9.50 euros? The calculation is done quickly!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u134	Mr Gilkinet, you must learn how to calculate! If an employee, who is fully employed, will perform overtime, the employer will not have to pay a RSZ contribution. The employee will also not have to pay a RSZ contribution for this. For both the employee and the employer, this will also be a zero operation in the field of taxation. On the contrary, the employer will also be able to provide this as a cost. This therefore means a better status for the employer than in the case of a flexi-job. If you say here that a flexi job is cheaper than paying overtime to a full-time employee, you still do not know what it is about. Overtime worked by a permanent employee is cheaper than the hourly wage of a flexi job!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u135	Mr Tommelein, you have not listened carefully. I'm talking about a worker who has a part-time contract in the Horeca sector. This happens very often, as Mrs Gerkens said. If there is work for more than contract working time, what will the employer choose? To increase the working time under contract and the worker's rights to social security, his ability to borrow, to buy a house? Or to contract flexi-job to 9,50 euros with another worker, with less social rights? You're creating competition between workers. It is more interesting for an employer to hire flexi-job workers than workers under a real contract. You are creating underemployment, this is the real problem of your text. This is indeed a reform, but not in the direction of social progress. What needed to be done was to alleviate the conditions of social security contributions for the workers concerned, with alternative financing of social security and to push employers in the horeca sector to give workers real contracts rather than to employ them in black or to hire additional workers to compensate for the additional demand linked to either daily, weekly or seasonal peaks. The jobs or underemployment you create will be poorly paid, they will be below the sector's scales. We have tabled an amendment to apply the sectoral scales instead of the EUR 9.50. These jobs open up incomplete social security rights. They do not provide workers with the ability to verify that they are actually declared.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u136	Mr Tommelein, I ask for your attention to the Dimona statement. What system will be used? There is a framework agreement and contracts that can be oral. I asked you in committee how the worker could verify that it was actually declared. Mr. Lachaert replied that there was the Dimona system. The problem with this system is that the worker does not have the capacity to verify that the employer has actually introduced a Dimona declaration, or even, if he has introduced it, if he has not withdrawn it. Thus in comparison with a real contract of employment in which the rights and duties of the worker and the employer are registered, we create here possibilities of oral contract which are problematic. A Dimona declaration is not equivalent to an employment contract. We regret that, rather than seeking a solution that allows workers in the horeca sector to have a real contract and a real status for social security, you are creating underemployment, which is a serious precedent for us.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u137	Mr Gilkinet, the debate is the same as in committee. Once again, you said that you have little faith in the oral agreements. However, that is wrong. The Dimona declaration is done electronically and is also much smoother than before. In this case, there is no written agreement, but an inspection can check whether or not a person has been notified. The employee can also check that, because he receives a pay document at the end of the month, which shows whether or not he was paid for a particular day. So control is possible. In my view, it is out of date to aim only for written agreements. There are also other contracts of employment, oral contracts, or contracts of indefinite duration. So, frankly, I do not see where the problem lies with regard to worker control.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u138	I'll explain it to you. You tell me that the employee can check at the end of the month whether or not he has been declared. But the problem is that as a worker, especially in the horeca sector, if you want to be protected from an accident at work, you must have been declared. If we want to be in order with regard to social control - because we are also concerned - we must be able to check that the Dimona has actually been introduced. The answer you gave me, both in committee and now, is not satisfactory as to the worker's ability to know whether he has been declared and therefore whether he is protected. He may indeed know it a posteriori, but not immediately. And you know that an accident at work, particularly in the horeca sector, unfortunately happened quite quickly. Whether or not to be declared has a very strong impact on the protection of workers' rights. That is why I believe that you are creating underemployment, contracts that do not guarantee all workers' rights. We regret it. We have tabled amendments to improve your text constructively. Another point I would like to point out, and I have already mentioned, is that it opens the door to forms of social engineering. I asked you about the operating technical unit. For those colleagues who were not in committee, I would point out that the text which may be adopted earlier states that in order to have access to flexi-job, you must be employed in another company. But what if this company is linked to the one in which we're going to do our flexi-job hours? It's really not easy to check it out. One can imagine particularly creative employers who would create a second company to be able to pay hours beyond four fifths at a flexi-job salary and on flexi-job social conditions. Again, we proposed a technical solution through an amendment to clarify that this type of circumvention of the law is not possible. You didn't accept them. I can give the example of two McDonald's. Is it two companies, one in Schaerbeek, the other in Ixelles or is it the same company? All this is not clear today, as is a series of elements that have been identified in the opinion of the National Labour Council and to which you have responded in an unsatisfactory way. I repeat that we are in favour of social reforms in the horeca sector to meet its characteristics, but what you are proposing is problematic in relation to workers' rights and opportunities for social engineering. I have noted your commitment to an evaluation of this new system, and that is the minimum. An evaluation was carried out on the service securities sector. As I pointed out in committee, I believe that the studies by Idea Consult which we received regularly in the Social Affairs Committee, when the competence was still federal, were very useful in identifying problems. Unfortunately, reforms have not taken place. I will conclude by expressing once again my fear that this text will constitute a Trojan horse for those who want to deregulate the labour market at all costs to the detriment of workers and social security. Clearly distinct views were expressed in the majority. I heard the Vld, MR and N-VA say that if it works, the system could be extended to other sectors, and the CD&V said it was out of the question that this measure be applied outside the horeca sector. Ladies and gentlemen of the CD&V, Mrs Lanjri, Mr Vercamer, I believe that you have gone too far, that you should have obtained guarantees before launching this hybrid system. There is a way to help the horeca sector by taking specific measures, but without slashing employment and creating a precedent that can be harmful to the sector and workers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u139	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, the horeca sector, which we all know perfectly well for having frequented it, does indeed need specific legislation. It's a fragile sector, we know. It is also a large labour user sector that is often low-skilled. It is therefore interesting, in terms of employment policy, to have particular attention to it. The previous government has already taken a number of measures, notably with regard to VAT and reduction of charges. And it is true that the smart box or the white box is one of his creations. Now we come with another technique. The project on the table - one sees it in terms of the length of the debate - raises more questions, more problems than it solves, questions for workers, questions for employers. In order not to unnecessarily prolong the debate, I would like to return to two or three questions of principle that have not been taken into account by the present government. Several technical modalities still need to be clarified. I shall make four points in this regard. First, the flexi-job measures are linked to the introduction of the certified white box. Mr. Tommelein indicated that it would begin to be used in Horeca establishments as of January 1. Let us remember, however, that a few days ago the Council of State annulled the royal decree establishing it. What's going to happen? What should the sector expect, since this measure is no longer relevant and is likely to be changed, given that a new royal order will have to be made? Secondly, the bill allows, beyond a framework contract, for the conclusion of oral contracts. This was approved in committee. In the current social law, however, this is equivalent to an indefinite full-time contract. How are you going to articulate flexi-job characteristics with those of the indefinite contract and, above all, with proof of it? We will recall that orality is a source of legal uncertainty. Difficulties in producing evidence also represent a way of precarising workers, especially since few such contracts are the subject of Dimona. It is therefore not in line with reality. Thirdly, the draft refers to a special employer contribution free of 25% from these flexi-salaries. However, the current legislation already provides for reductions for low wages and first employment. What will then be the impact with regard to these reductions? How will these be combined with the reduction in the contributions provided for in the tax shift? Legislation and situations will overlap. The fourth specific problem that I would like to raise with you is that there are a number of perverse and unwanted effects that this project could have, in particular, on temporary employment. The interim sector did indeed intervene. He is very attentive and very worried about this situation. It is foreseen that the flexi-job worker cannot be employed at the employer with whom he exercises this flexi-job more than a 4/5th full-time occupation time in the quarter. It is well known that in the T-Service, the temporary work company is the employer. This poses a problem since the worker who wishes to work under flexi-job status, via this temporary undertaking, cannot then, for a whole quarter, work at a rate of more than a 4/5th time for this temporary undertaking. This raises the question of temporary work, if any, in another sector and another joint committee. There is a negative impact on temporary employment as job opportunities are restricted. Is this restriction not contrary to the European directive on temporary work? These are questions which have not been resolved in committee and which remain unanswered. It is for this reason that I was telling you that this legislation poses more problems than it solves and that it will raise, in practice, many questions on a day-to-day basis in the horeca sector, where it would be useful. As I said, the sector is specific. We cannot remain silent on this sector. In committee, I have explained this in relation to this fragile sector, which is a major supplier of labour also in tourist seasons or in tourist towns. That is why, Mr Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, we have chosen to abstain in committee. We believe that there is something to do, but as it is thought, this legislation does not satisfy us. The sector deserves better and we invite you to improve things.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u140	Mr President, I would like to congratulate the CDH on its abstention. This shows that within the opposition there are two constructive parties, sp.a and cdH, while the other parties are against. It is clear that this project has broader support than that of the simple majority.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u141	Mr Van Quinckenborne, this is not the time for the newsletter or the right points. We take the position that seems to us to be the most just in our situation. We want real attention to be paid to workers and employers, but many questions remain, including the follow-up to the white cash registers. In my view, the debate is not over.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u142	Mr Van Quickenborne, I am afraid that you will receive some bad points because the PTB will not be able to support this project, which constitutes an attack on the very foundations of our social law, in particular the question of the employment contract, which, in the field of social legislation, is a fundamental element in the defence of workers. This is the raison d'être of labour law: defending workers against their employers because power relations are uneven. It was history that made the Workers' Movement obtain its creation. Here, you're breaking that logic. For me, it is surprising on the part of a government or in any case from a minister of employment who talks about tailor-made work coming with a project that presents a new contract of employment: flexi-jobs, which are actually tailor-made not for the workers but for the big bosses and which, according to the foreign examples, benefit far less to the small establishments of the Horeca than to the large commercial chains like Mac Donald, Burger King and others. The PTB has tabled three amendments, not on the substance, because we believe that this draft is untenable, but to remove a certain hypocrisy from this draft. These amendments consist of recharging the terms that you use as flexi-jobs, flexi-salaries and giving them a name that corresponds more to what they are. Peter De Keyzer, CEO of BNP Paribas Fortis, said in De Tijd newspaper: "We need more McJobs." That is what this is about. What are the McJobs? McJobs is referred to as many jobs that are created in the United States. These are underpaid jobs. It is simple but usually heavy work and paid under the minimum wage. Many of these McJobs are often needed to earn a living. When I heard our Prime Minister say, "jobs, jobs, jobs," I concluded that now it would take three jobs to get to live and that a job would not be enough. We also propose to change the term flexi-salary per mini-salary because the wages of these flexi-jobs would be disconnected from the current scales and agreements. We would be more than 2 per cent below the minimum wage that is applicable in the sector. We also want a third change in vocabulary. We find it inappropriate to talk about flexi-job employment contracts. Instead, we should talk about a zero-hour contract because that is what it is. At present, it is considered that a worker in an undertaking who does not have a written contract has, of course, an indefinite full-time contract with all the characteristics that accompany it. In this case, one is completely in breach of this because, within the framework of flexi-job, one can have a job with only an oral contract. This obviously reinforces the arbitrariness for the employer and the insecurity for the worker. Currently, in Belgium, the employer has to make workers work at the times and places agreed to in the contract. In the oral flexi-job contract, however, we should not mention working time. Employers must not comply with the rules in force concerning the publication of schedules. Employers must also not notify the worker of a minimum of days in advance. This can be done the day before. And the timetables should not be included in the working regulations. All this is thrown in the trash in your project. This is a situation in which the worker can be used on a pay-per-view basis, at his own discretion, as desired and without any guarantee of benefit. So this really corresponds to what is developing in the Netherlands or the United Kingdom: zero-hour contracts. So why not call them by name and mention them as such in this bill. Colleagues, allowing zero-hour contracts is about going back twenty-six years. Indeed, it was in 1989 that a law prohibited them. In the name of what? In the name of the fight against black work! In other words, today you are introducing these oral contracts, pretending to fight fraud in the sector, while you are removing what was put in place to combat this phenomenon. Look for the mistake... I am not going to go back to the sad words that were addressed to me earlier, but these zero-hour employment contracts constitute a declaration of war to the trade unions, who complained in their opinion to the National Labour Council by noting "a serious violation of the right to collective bargaining, the right to decent work and the right to social protection". They added: "The government is also encroaching, with this bill, on the various areas of the social partners, including wage formation, labour rights and social security." This text also deals with overtime, which in some way legalize work in the dark. Besides, the Council of State has issued a rather acerbic criticism of your project. Indeed, he rightly pointed out that while a measure aimed at combating black work in a certain sector was simply to remove the tax and social charges on part of the wage, it did not seem proportionate in the light of its objective. It must be concluded that there is a violation of the principle of equality. That is the criticism expressed by the Council of State. Clearly, the government mocks the views of this body, the trade unions and the opposition and persists in its denial of the social rights of Horeca workers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u143	Mr President, I have listened carefully to all the speeches. I would also like to thank the opposition groups who will abstain in the vote on the draft law in advance. I would like to make one more comment, after listening to it all. The coalition agreement clearly pointed out that this would be achieved within the framework of flexibility, mainly for workers entering or joining the catering industry. One of these is the important action of the flexi-jobs, which is intended to accommodate peak moments. Moreover, we also made arrangements for fixed contracts in the hospitality sector, through the gross net payment for overtime, which was not included in the government agreement. But the simultaneous treatment of the two new statutes, one for overtime and one for flexi-jobs, is often confused. Contrary to what I have heard here, I repeat, the overtime of an employee with a fixed contract in the catering industry will be cheaper than a flexi job, because overtime in the catering industry follows the gross net scheme. This means that the employer does not pay RSZ because he already pays RSZ on the employee's full-time contract. It's as simple as that. For a flexi job he still has to pay 25 % RSZ. If one calculates it all correctly, and I have the impression that some have not done so, one can see that the cost of an overtime in the catering industry is actually cheaper than a flexi job. The risk that employees in flexi-jobs will replace employees with fixed contracts in the hospitality industry is therefore unlikely. I won 100 % for an evaluation because I have 100 % confidence in the scheme. I'm sure it'll be a story like the service cheques. They were also pessimistic about this, because it was assumed that permanent jobs would be taken away by employees who are paid with service cheques. But the service check system has become an overwhelming success. Well, for the flexi jobs, ladies and gentlemen, that will be the same. I agree that much has already been done for the catering industry. I'm also trying to make that clear to the hospitality staff. My predecessors Carl Devla and John Crombez have already taken a lot of measures in previous government periods, such as the VAT reduction and occasional work. I will continue to work on the work of my predecessors. We are doing a little bit more, and with the government we are providing flexibility and lower wage costs in the hospitality sector. That will also be the case with the tax shift, which ensures that employees with lower wages will have more money left in their wallets. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, we want to give those who want to work the opportunity to work in a normal legal framework. Undeclared work is detrimental to the workers. I have heard many colleagues say that the measure is detrimental to the social achievements. Nothing could be further from the truth. Restaurants are most prone to fraud and we most often find undeclared work, about 50% of turnover. The proposed measures will provide for a largely, if not entirely, white sector. The measures are also important for those who earn extra money in the catering industry. Those side-earners do not take off work from permanent employees, but jump in on a Saturday evening, a Friday evening, a Sunday afternoon for wedding parties, receptions, anniversaries and other events. They come to work a few hours in the hospitality industry to catch the peak moments. From now on, they can do so in a correct way. That means that anyone who wants to make extra money can do that. We ensure that more jobs and more value are created by the catering industry. Thank you in advance for the confidence in our measures. To those who will abstain, I understand that you cannot go fully from the opposition; I appreciate your abstinence.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u144	I understood that overtime was cheaper than flexi-jobs, don't worry, Secretary of State. I am concerned by the increase in overtime to 360 hours, i.e. two hours per working day, which the worker will be able to work in overtime. It's huge. And that's what makes me afraid of slipping. Beyond this first possible slippage in terms of the number of overtime hours which are less expensive than for other jobs, which entails the risk of not creating other jobs, I would like to talk about flexi-jobs. The one who has no employees, who sees his activity grow and wants to hire someone, why would he hire someone other than a flexi-job? He doesn't have to have "classic" employees already. He's going to pick up a few people who want to complete their salary and accept flexi-job. And so we will be able to circumvent the policy of hiring and exiting unemployment for a number of people. I'm worried about that. I am even more concerned today, after hearing the speakers of the majority. I thought there was a tendency within the majority not to go to other sectors. I hear that there is only the CD&V that does not want to go beyond other sectors and that all other parties in the majority want to go. Will they be able to resist? I'm glad to see him.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u145	Mr Daerden, it is clear to me. I'm sticking to the coalition agreement. The coalition agreement clearly states what it says, namely that the flexi-jobs, after they have been introduced into the catering industry, will be evaluated. It is only after this evaluation that further steps will be taken if necessary. So it's not a question of whether or not. It is clear in the coalition agreement that there will be an evaluation. I'll stick to that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u146	Mr President, Mr Tommelein insists on comparing the cost of overtime with the cost of flexi-job by saying that it is more interesting to pay for overtime. The comparison we want to establish is the comparison between a real employment contract, which allows people to work, and the cost of a flexi-job and the absorption of the increase in work not by real contracts, which would be payable, especially if specific measures were taken for the sector, and these flexi-jobs contracts, which are paid less than sectoral wage standards and which do not open up the same social security rights. Your second argument is to take people out of the black work circuit by granting them a flexi-job. What I'm proposing is that you take them out of work by submitting them with a real contract. That's the difference between our points of view. In conclusion, I consider positive the repeated willingness of the majority to evaluate this measure. This also implies that they are prepared to correct it if it proves to be problematic. In any case, we will be partners if you come back with measures that are favourable to the horeca sector, reforms that protect workers' rights, that are more balanced than your current proposals and that seem to us to be a serious precedent.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u147	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? ) The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u148	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committees is the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1297/5) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committees serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1297/5) The draft law contains 54 articles. The bill has 54 articles. ******
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u149	Art. 2 tot/to 38 7 Marco Van Hees (1297/3) • 8 years Marco Van Hees (1297/3) • 9 years Marco Van Hees (1297/3) ****** The b The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and articles that have been tabled and on the whole will take place later. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and the reserved articles as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. ****** Decision of the article-by-article discussion:
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u150	Sustained: the vote on the amendments and Articles 2 to 38.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u151	Article adopted by article: Articles 1, 39 to 54.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u152	******
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u153	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteurs, Mrs Jadin and Mr Van Biesen, refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u154	Mr President, I will take the floor briefly from my bank. I will not dwell on the draft law amending the Code of Economic Law. The amendments to the present draft law are aimed at some of the corrections and additions to the oblivion made during the previous legislature in the construction of the Code of Economic Law. These amendments also introduce some new provisions. In our view, the new provisions provide a better balance in the economic regulation of commercial practices between the professional trader or producer on the one hand and the consumer on the other. My group fully supports the amendments and provisions in this draft law. In committee, however, we expressed some reservations about the communication with stakeholders, especially about the amendment to the deletion of the provisions of the notice of price reductions. This amendment is in line with the judgment of 10 July 2014, in which Belgium was condemned by the European Court of Justice. I assume that the Minister will follow our recommendations and communicate adequately with both consumers and traders on the information to be provided in the event of price reductions. For the rest, we fully agree with the amendments. We have tabled four amendments in committee, which I explained sufficiently at the committee meeting.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u155	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this essentially technical bill is, for most of the articles, the result of the transposition of European matters. It was not particularly discussed at length in committee, but, as has already been said earlier today, the devil is often in the details. In this respect, as we have expressed in committee, Ecolo-Groen has serious concerns with Articles 10 and 47. In summary, on a sale outside the establishment (door-to-door), the consumer has a right of withdrawal of fourteen days and the possibility for seven days from the date of signature of the contract that no advance payment or payment be requested. This seven-day protection disappears with articles 10 and 47. In committee, the Minister justified this decision by explaining that there was disproportionality to this extent and redundancy with the possibility of withdrawal of fourteen days. We believe that removing this additional seven-day protection is damaging, even more so for vulnerable, elderly people, who, through door-to-door practices, are sometimes forced to make impulsive instalment payments. It is well known that it is always more difficult to recover money once it is paid. In our view, the possibility of withdrawal is thus completely altered. It is even logical that no advance payments should be made before the end of the withdrawal period, i.e. 14 days. In conclusion, the Ecolo-Groen Group believes that this project represents a significant decline in consumer protection. We have expressed our firm opposition to these two articles in committee. That is why we will abstain from voting on the whole text.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u156	Is the government still asking for the floor? I do not think that an answer should be given, because Mr Vanden Burre's only comment came. He himself gave the government's answer. Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? ) The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u157	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committees is the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1300/6) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committees serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1300/6) The wording in French was amended by the committees to read: Bill amending the Code of Economic Law and various other amending provisions [["]] The title in French has been amended by the commissions into a bill amending the Code of Economic Law and introducing various other amending provisions." The draft law has 106 articles. The bill has 106 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u158	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u159	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u160	Mr President, I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u161	Mr President, I note that Secretary of State Franken is not present. Is he coming? We can wait for him. It makes no sense to have a discussion without the presence of the minister concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u162	The government is present in the person of Secretary of State Tommelein. We are trying to reach Mr Franken but we have not been successful so far.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u163	Mr President, we are not going to delay this. Mr Tommelein will eventually be able to answer our questions. We will move forward in the debate, but it is regrettable to note a second time that the House cannot count on the presence of its functional minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u164	The truth has its rights. Mr. Franken has asked to be called for consideration of this bill, but it is currently unattainable.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u165	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the work of the Foreign Office and the Foreign Litigation Council calls for a reform of its legislative rules. Year after year, applications for regularization based on Articles 9a or 9ter are counted by thousands. In 2012, there were 16,412; in 2013, there were 12,996; in 2014, there were 9,867. This shows, if necessary, that the reform proposed by the government is a reform of just rationalization which, moreover, corresponds very well and very precisely to the will expressed in the government agreement which I would like to recall here expressis verbis: "The government will examine the possibilities of avoiding multiple regularisation requests when no new elements are advanced and will fight against abusive parallel procedures". Ladies and gentlemen, the problem lies in the fact that the current 1980 Residence Act does not prohibit successive applications 9a, 9ter, even if they do not make any new points. So we can make multiple applications. Applications can be submitted in parallel. They can also be introduced dilatoryly, without even having to wait for the outcome of appeals or applications already filed. All must be analyzed and processed! As a result of this practice, there is a significant backlog of cases, both at the level of the Office of Foreigners and at the level of the Foreign Litigation Council. If the workload for the officials of these institutions was still useful! However, when we look at the figures, we find that in 2012, out of 30,244 decisions rendered, 24,157 were decisions of rejection; that in 2013, out of 22,299 decisions rendered, 19,046 were decisions of rejection; that in 2014, out of 13,284 decisions rendered, only 996 were positive. These multiple demands are therefore harmful because, for the most part, they do not succeed, if not further complicate returns. The objectives of the text are therefore clear: this bill will make it possible for the Office of Foreigners to deal with only the most recent request with the latest data. For the Litigation Council, the principle will be the same. It will deal only with the last resort on the basis of the most recent data, i.e. the most relevant information. As I said in the introduction, therefore, it is a rationalisation reform that also guarantees the security and legal protection of applicants. In this regard, I would like to welcome the fact that the draft also calls for the responsibility of lawyers and foreign nationals on what should be the most appropriate, namely to decide whether to submit a new application or to allow the application already submitted to be processed. According to the statistics put forward by the Secretary of State, this bill will reduce the total caseload by 8 per cent, i.e. about 1,200 cases. This will result, and it is essential to us, in providing time for the examination of the applications which are apparently the most well-founded and relevant. There is no ambiguity in the government agreement. Regularization remains an exception procedure. This text is a new step in the right direction and our group will vote in favour of this project. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u166	Mr President, I shall be brief. I'll keep my statement on my couch. Colleagues, the problem of parallel applications in regularisation dossiers is actually an old one. DVZ has repeatedly denounced this in the annual reports in the past. The last time we discussed this was in 2013. At that time, the annual report showed that there was an increasing number of parallel regularisation applications for both 9a and 9b. In 2012, 8.8 % of applications were parallel applications. DVZ also referred to the problem of successive applications, which are submitted after an earlier application has been closed or rejected. Regularisations for medical and humanitarian reasons accounted for 65.5% of the total number of regularisation applications in 2012. In committee, I asked the Secretary of State what the effect of the fee on the number of regularization applications was. Unfortunately, I did not receive an answer from the Secretary of State at the time. A week later, I learned that he had informed the press that the number of regularization applications had fallen dramatically. Last year, 2 388 regularization applications were submitted and since March this year, only 1 422 humanitarian regularisation applications have been submitted. This represents a decrease of more than 40%. We will support this bill because we want applications to be motivated and because new, successful applications without new elements make no sense at all. We hope that this measure can contribute to this. It is important to point out that neither this measure nor the fee measure should restrict the right of people to submit a regularisation application. If a person has effective reasons to believe that he is eligible for regularisation, the possibility of exercising that right should continue to exist. Nor should this be prevented under any circumstances. It is therefore important to continue to monitor this in the future. Following another question from me, you have also confirmed that it will continue to be possible to add additional information to an ongoing dossier in the future. This is important because after the fee fee introduced, it cannot be the intention to continue to cost people. If people want to complete their files, they should be able to do so without the need for a new application. This is also good for reducing the workload at both the DVZ and the RVV. In any event, we hope that this measure will reduce the workload of the RVV and the Foreign Affairs Office. After all, there is a huge gap between the two bodies. Certainly in the Council of Foreign Ministers, this is often related to cases involving regularisation. CD&V will support the measure and, on occasion, evaluate its effects.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u167	Mr President, my group shares the Government's desire to simplify and speed up the examination of applications for regularisation. In fact, administrative simplification and efficiency are objectives that the PS Group supports. This is important in the interests of the applicants, whose need to know is legitimate, provided that the quality of the examination of each file is guaranteed. Nevertheless, we have questions about the means and motivation behind this project. Before insisting on the particular point of regularisations on the basis of Articles 9ter and 9a, I would like to make it clear that we do not share the phrases such as "responsibility of lawyers and applicants", as if they used or abused the unfounded procedure. I think we're confusing reason and accountability here. Abuse of procedures can already be punished today and the choice of terms is never innocent. Calling for accountability is for us a little to denigrate the work that is being done, delegitimizing the approach of lawyers and applicants, it is also to cast suspicion on their motivations and it is finally to attribute to the applicants and their advice the heaviness and administrative slowness of the processing of applications for regularization. Having said that, I would like to mention our group's regret that it did not take up the recommendations of the White Paper on the authorisation of residence for medical reasons, published at the end of September by a series of associations including doctors, lawyers and field staff. This White Paper denounces the processing of applications for regularization for medical reasons and even accuses the authorities of issuing death permits by processing applications for regularization increasingly in a negative way. We will have to come back to these issues quickly in committee. Mr Secretary of State, my group will not oppose the adoption of the draft. We will abstain and come back to committee on the conclusions of the White Paper on medical regulation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u168	Secretary of State, this bill aims to combat the phenomenon of multiple claims and remedies for humanitarian and medical regularization. During our debates in committee, I have asked you three times about the reasons why regularisation candidates file several applications for regularization and, at times, several appeals. You never answered me. So I investigated. This is a fact today: the Foreign Office does not grant any such regularization. Mr. Pivin recalled the absolute figures. I'll call back the percentages. In 2013, only 1.3% of requests received a positive response. This means that, today, 98.7% of applicants remain on the job and, in the wake of their refusal to regularize medical or humanitarian work, receive an order to leave the territory. Sometimes it is accompanied by a ban on entering "if the administrative past is heavy". This means that the alien did not comply with the previous order to leave the territory. Recall that these applicants are ill and their survival depends sometimes on their access to care. It is therefore understandable that they are trying by every means to stay where they can receive appropriate treatment. As part of my research, Secretary of State, I have been contacted by a doctor who works in Charleroi and treats these asylum seekers. He is also the co-editor of a white paper which was published on medical regulation and which you received at your office. I quote in extenso: "As a doctor, I do not waste my time writing a 9ter certificate if there is no good reason. What I ask, as a doctor, is that the continuity of the care of the patients that I take care of be assured and that their lives be not threatened. Almost all of the 9ter medical certificates I have written so far concern AIDS patients and almost all have received a refusal from the Foreigners' Office at their request. Their lives are threatened by these decisions of the Office of Foreigners. In view of these refusal decisions taken by the Office of Foreigners, which are irresponsible in terms of public health, which are contrary to the international fight against AIDS and unacceptable in terms of medical ethics, it is more than legitimate, for each patient to be treated, to bring an appeal to the Conseil du Litigieux des Étrangers, which, moreover, often breaks the decision of the Office of Foreigners. As long as the Foreign Office does not change its jurisprudence" - the case law that Mr Pivin recalled: only 1.3 % of applicants receive protection - "a lot of energy will have to be spent by lawyers, social workers and doctors to ensure that these serious patients can simply stay alive". With regard to article 9ter, namely, medical regulations, fundamental rights, the right to life, were very closely addressed. If the applicant is rejected and HIV-positive, this is the immensity of the cases, he or she is sometimes subjected to inhuman and degrading treatment if he or she returns to his or her country of origin. For example, I met a young Congolese at the 127bis closed centre, which will be sent back to the Congo where he will not be able to receive his triple therapies. That is the case, Mr Secretary of State. Inhuman and degrading treatment is exactly contrary to the principle of Article 3 of the European Convention on Human Rights. The Office of Foreigners therefore has a very restrictive policy in its decisions, but another real problem also arises for the Office of Foreigners. This one practices what was called in our committee "carousel" or "legal guerilla". As soon as its decision on a medical regularisation is contested before the Conseil du Litigieux des Étrangers, the Office annuls its negative decision and takes up another still negative decision. The first remedy therefore becomes null and void. Faced with the danger to his health and therefore his survival, the applicant for regularisation brought a new appeal and a new application. That is why you have several appeals and several applications. However, 9bis or 9ter applications do not even grant a temporary residence permit. The appeal to the Foreign Litigation Council against a negative decision is not suspensive. This is contrary to the case law of the Court of Justice of the European Union since its Abdida judgment, which requires that the appeal against the refusal of an application be suspensive in its own right. But the fact is that today the asylum seeker makes repeated applications, which he does in 7% of cases, to obtain very indirect protection. He thus hopes that the State will not expel him, because he is in trial. The bill calls for the responsibility of lawyers. You say you want to fight their abuses and delaying procedures. That's your goal, which is why I think a lot of colleagues have been seduced by your bill. First, 9bis applications have become fee-paying, as Ms Lanjri said. It is already a hindrance to the multiplicity of demands. When you have to pay, you do not file multiple claims for which you have to pay. Secondly, for a lawyer who works pro deo – and in the case of asylum seekers, that is most of the time – the request would be manifestly abusive and, if it proved to be manifestly abusive, would be punished by his peers in the Bar Association. He would therefore not have a point and would not receive any compensation. Thirdly, if the proceedings proved to be manifestly unfair before the Foreign Litigation Council, the claimant himself may be sanctioned by the Council for damages. In short, there is therefore, as Mr Kir has said, a series of measures already in force which can effectively combat abusive demands for regularisation. Having said that, Mr. Secretary of State, your bill is not indigestible or inconvenient. It just sheds light, in a rather unfair way, on the possible excesses of some lawyers by hiding the responsibility of your administration which puts itself in a Kafkaian situation, but above all that puts asylum seekers in such a situation. Failures in the current procedure lead to successive applications, not applicants, not lawyers. You're trying to treat the symptoms here. You don't attack the causes. This is why the Ecolo-Groen Group will abstain.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u169	Mr President, I will be brief because a lot has been said. No one in this House will challenge the project's very objectives of reducing workload, simplification and efficiency. However, the devil is often in the details. In committee, with regard to an emblematic case, that of this young child threatened to be expelled while suffering from an incurable disease, we, in turn, denounced what lawyers, doctors and associations were denouncing, namely the carousel effect which the Office of Foreigners practice and about which we did not receive information in committee: the withdrawal of a decision which the Office operates to prevent the applicant from making an appeal. There is therefore a real problem in terms of rights since the effectiveness of the remedy is not guaranteed. Our group will therefore abstain from voting. We have never called into question the filter that was put in place by Mr Wathelet – I see you smiling, Secretary of State. We confirm that the filter set up for medical reasons is a good solution. This is the extremely restrictive way in which the Office of Foreigners interprets and plays with the procedures we challenge. This bill supports these practices, which you have been silent about. One last time, we ask you to clarify these unacceptable situations where people are deprived of a right provided for in a law, i.e. an appeal to the Litigation Council. For all the reasons I have just mentioned and as I have already mentioned, our group will abstain.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u170	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, several fellow Members have already referred to the DVD's play in the procedure and use of the current legislation and its margin to meet a particular political objective. As Mrs Matz and Mr Hellings have said, we have not been able to debate this in committee, and that is a pity. Now new legislation is being presented, but we still have to have the debate and get answers to our questions about how the various asylum authorities, including the DVD, will deal with this. Mr Hellings mentioned your bill as non-imbuvable. It is difficult to translate such an expression into Dutch, but she does point out that the draft law contains a number of good intentions and I would like to emphasise that. Administrative simplification, for example, is always commendable. In addition to the elements that Mr Hellings has listed, I will quote two elements why we will effectively abstain. And that is a pity, because I believe that these two shortcomings could have been remedied. In committee, however, we pointed out those two elements. Subject to an amendment by, for example, your side, or with support for the amendment by the CdH in committee, we could have made progress and improved the text. So there are two elements. First, the explanatory memorandum states that this draft law does not affect the possibility of updating a pending application with new elements at all times until the time of the decision. You say that you want to base yourself on the latest, most recent application and that the other one, in advance, lapses. The same applies to the last, most recent appeal, with all the foregoing deleted. Can the person about whom it is about then bring in new elements to complete his file? Or do you, as legislator, say that a new element means a completely new file? Fortunately, you have clarified this with regard to the applications, in the sense that they can be updated with new elements. However, that is not the case for the appeal; at that level, you do not mention it in the explanatory statement or in the legal text itself. In committee, however, you explained orally that this also applies to the appeal. Nevertheless, I think it is appropriate to include this explicitly in the explanatory statement. For the second defect in your text, I refer to Mrs Matz's justified amendment of the cdH. It refers to the transitional provision relating to the appeals provided for in Article 7. For a person who submits an appeal before the law comes into force, but where the decision still has to be taken, the decision is taken on the basis of the current legislation and not the new one. That's a transitional provision. However, this transitional provision is not present as far as applications are concerned, hence the amendment that we have also supported in committee. The majority parties have chosen not to support it, which is unfortunate. We could have done that. That wouldn't have been a problem. In committee, you said that it was indeed the intention to provide for the transitional provision for the professions as well. Then vote the amendment. We all benefit from good, quality legislation. We could have voted on the amendment, then there was one obstacle to the job. You did not want to do that, which is one of the reasons for my group's abstention.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u171	Mr President, a number of general comments were made, which were also made during the discussion in committee. I have already replied to that. It is not, of course, about denying the right to apply for regularisation. It is only about making a number of procedures more efficient. Until now, applications could be submitted by the executive, while an application was still pending. We want to make sense of it and have the last request dealt with on the substance by the services or administrative court which is the Council for Foreign Affairs. That's what it's about. That's not new. It is still happening and is now being introduced for the 9a and 9b procedures, both for applications and for the professions. It's not a world-shattering adjustment. It is about 8% to 10% of the applications, but it is a step forward in order to make up for the delays that are certainly present in the RVV, but still in the regularisation service. For this purpose, the government has put in place the retarded cells at the RVV. Additional staff are being recruited for this purpose, and that is still ongoing. For this purpose, the fee of EUR 215 per person for applications was set up through the 9a procedure. We now see fewer applications being submitted; the number has fallen considerably. This is a small element that fits in with a larger approach, not only to make the procedures more efficient, but also to provide greater legal certainty for those who submit bona fide applications, as well as to strengthen the host society, we all, in order to work out the procedures properly and to be able to judge clearly. Mr Hellings, you just said that you asked a question three times, but you did not get an answer. Well, you're asking questions that aren't pertinent. For example, you mentioned the case of a Congolese you met in the centre 127bis. Not three, but maybe ten times you've come back on that file. You have already asked written questions about it, and even in plenary, you questioned me about it. I have always answered these questions, but I do not think there is much point in doing so again. Here's what I can tell you. This concerns the way applications are made and appeals are made, not procedures 9a or 9b and the examination of 9b applications. This bill is not about that. You're always trying to get into that debate, but that's not the point. This subject can be discussed further in committee, but that is not what is currently before us. Now we are simply talking about what we should do if there are consecutive applications and what we should do if there are consecutive appeals that are still pending. That's what this is about. For the rest, Mr President, I believe that the comments made in committee have been widely discussed. That has been discussed for a long time, on the substance. For example, there was the question of whether a profession could be updated and whether additional elements could be added. Yeah, you can. I confirmed that in the statement of reasons. I say clearly once again that it can be effective. I have also made it very clear in committee about the transitional provisions, and this is also clearly stated in the report, how things stand. I think that was sufficiently discussed. In short, I believe that the debate was sufficiently explained, both in committee and in this plenary session.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u172	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, the question I asked you was the origin of the multiple requests. That's the question you didn't answer. I did not ask you about the particular case of this Congolese or this Kenyan woman I was talking about in committee. I asked you for the administrative origin of these multiple requests and I did not get any answer. Does not some of the multiple applications originate, on which Mrs Matz has already insisted, namely the legal carousel of the Office of Foreigners, which, as soon as it is attacked before the Council of the Litigation of Foreigners, withdraws its decision? This leads the asylum applicant to have to re-apply, and the Foreign Office repeats a negative decision on the old application. This can explain the multiple demands since these foreigners are in a difficult situation, have health problems, are often suffering from AIDS and are in a situation of distress such that they use all the strings so that they can be sure to stay close to their hospital and doctor. And we can understand them!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u173	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Secretary of State, as in committee, you have not confirmed, overturned or explained this practice that my colleague, Mr. Hellings, has just recalled, on which we have spoken on many occasions, and not only on the occasion of this bill. We talked about it well before, on the occasion of more individual and very emblematic cases. The carousel organized by the Office des Etrangers has been confirmed by a number of quite different actors. This should be clarified because applicants are deprived of a right. In addition, you have confirmed here, as you did in committee, that the transitional provisions apply. We had tabled an amendment because it is even better when it is written, so there is no possible dispute. We regret the fact that this amendment could not be accepted by this government because it was your words that we took note of. The reason why the transitional provisions are partly mentioned in the law and that we should refer to parliamentary work for the rest remains, for us, a big question mark.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u174	Mr Hellings, you asked what the origins were. Why do these practices exist, why do they apply for a commission when an application is still pending? You must, of course, ask those involved, but there will be a number of reasons for that. We often see, in the context of foreign law, that a lot of procedures run parallel or consecutively in order to maximize opportunities. In this way, the hope of a right of residence is maximized. That is, of course, the case. It is therefore important for the legislator to draw a clear line. We need to ensure that people are able to apply properly, and that they are treated correctly. Of course, one should not start using procedures to use but procedures and always submit the same applications infinity. I can say that the Foreign Affairs Office has already seen some progress in the number of applications submitted in which asylum seekers combine the 9bis procedures. These are very impressive numbers. You're quoting the case of HIV. I'm not a doctor. I strongly reject the picture that is being put up of the doctors who treat files in the Foreign Affairs Office under the 9th procedure as if they were harsh people who do not know their case and only wish to reject applications. I fight against that image; I rebel against it; I do not agree with it at all. I have met some of these doctors and they are guided by a special deontology and do their work correctly, within the legal framework that exists in our country. You obviously intend to hang up another image and push the doctors who handle the 9th procedure, and the Aliens Office into the corner of the harsh. Well, I can only say that that is not true. But say and do what you think you should say and do.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u175	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u176	The draft law shall govern matters referred to in Articles 74 and 78 of the Constitution. The draft law regulates the matters referred to in articles 74 and 78 of the Constitution. Pursuant to paragraph 2 of Rule 72 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the provisions of Article 74 of the Constitution shall be set out in the draft law. Pursuant to rule 72.2, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure, the provisions of article 74 of the Constitution are disjunct from the bill. We shall begin the discussion of the articles of the Bill No. 1310/4 (matters referred to in Article 74 of the Constitution). The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1310/4) We turn to the articles of Bill No. 1310/4 (matter referred to in Article 74 of the Constitution). The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1310/4) The title was changed by the Committee to "draft law amending Articles 9a and 9b of the Law of 15 December 1980 on entry into the territory, residence, establishment and expulsion of foreign nationals." The title has been amended by the committee to "draft law amending Articles 9a and 9b of the Act of 15 December 1980 on the entry, stay, establishment and expulsion of aliens." The draft law contains 5 articles. The bill has five articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u177	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. We shall begin the discussion of the articles of the Bill No. 1310/5 (matters referred to in Article 78 of the Constitution). The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1310/5) We turn to the articles of Bill No. 1310/5 (matter referred to in Article 78 of the Constitution). The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1310/5) The title was changed by the Committee to "draft law amending the Law of 15 December 1980 on the admission to the territory, residence, establishment and expulsion of foreign nationals as regards the procedure before the Council of Foreign Ministers." The title has been amended by the committee to "draft law amending the Act of 15 December 1980 on the entry, stay, establishment and removal of aliens with regard to the procedure before the Foreign Litigation Council." The draft law contains 7 articles. The bill has 7 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u178	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u179	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u180	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the discussion of the draft law on various provisions on the internal affairs of the Commission went very smoothly. The design is based on a number of guidelines. The Minister explained that the draft was intended to prevent and combat identity fraud, for which some measures were developed. Mr van Groen asks whether the opinions of the Privacy Committee have been taken into account. The Minister also stressed the importance of the principle of administrative simplification: in the case of procedural disputes relating to the main place of residence, there should really be disputes about the main place of residence and not about side-effects. He also referred to the new system of provisional registration in the population registers, which should provide more clarity. Finally, he explained what solution had been worked out for prisoners who no longer had a permanent main residence. In this way, the workload is spread, as not everything ends up in the same place where the prison is located. There is an exchange of views on a number of provisions relating to civil security, municipal administrative sanctions, maritime safety, residence fraud and the abolition of two funds. In committee, members of sp.a and the cdH make comments on the concept and the provisional residence regime. As has been said, Mr van Groen has questions about the opinion of the Privacy Commission. The Minister answers all the questions. He clarified that, for example, when it comes to prisoners, the purpose of the scheme is to relieve the municipalities where a prison is located. In relation to the preparatory Fire Fire Crews, the Minister stated that the comments of the Privacy Commission were taken into account and that a favourable opinion was given by the trade unions. The KB on training was submitted to the Council of State for its opinion. The draft law is adopted unanimously in committee. On behalf of the N-VA, I would like to say that we naturally fully support the draft and that we take note of two amendments tabled by fellow Members of the sp.a Group.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u181	Mr. Chairman, Minister, the objectives of this bill fully satisfy my political group. One of its main points is to improve the national register system at three levels: the fight against fraud, comprehensiveness and administrative simplification with clear respect for the right to privacy. My group, and myself as mayor, pay particular attention to the progress of this project. Identity fraud continues to increase from year to year. In order to combat this type of crime and in a preventive manner, the municipal and police services will, for example, have access to the history of photographs and signatures of identity cards in strict compliance with certain conditions. Improving the completeness of the national register will undoubtedly make it possible to increase the exchange of information with the citizen with a view to simplification. I would like to draw your attention to the problems encountered by the municipal authorities, which find many irregularities which unfortunately cannot be rectified by virtue of their powers. Attention has already been paid to the permanent occupation of caravans, but in large cities the increase in registrations in inappropriate places such as garages, cellars or commercial areas must be pointed out. I am also thinking of the inscriptions in uninhabitable or unsanitary dwellings that are any benefit to sleep merchants. This bill will help to solve the problem in part. The provisional registration will remain provisional and will not become final after a period of three years, as is currently the case if no administrative or judicial decision is taken. But in our view, the legislator will have to go further to eliminate these situations. Finally, I would like to stress the positive effect of the provisions on the mention of aliens enjoying privileged status, given the existence of certain social and tax abuses. So, Mr. Chair, Mr.Minister, our group will obviously support this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u182	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we fully support the measures put forward for adoption today in the draft various provisions on Home Affairs. It is true that there are a number of mainly technical adaptations to various laws which are necessary, but which also make some improvements to the better application of the law. We have already made comments on the proposed amendments in committee, but we would like to repeat a number of more fundamental comments in the context of the debate in plenary. The first concerns the measures taken in the framework of the National Register and the population registers. With regard to the proposed amendment on the provisional registration of houses declared uninhabitable, we still regret that Mrs Lanjri's legislative initiative could not be completed in the previous legislature. We note that the proposal in question is fully incorporated into this draft. We therefore fully support the objectives of this provision. We hope that the many municipalities that are faced with the problem of compulsory registration, whereby people offer to be registered at the address where they are not allowed to live for reasons of safety, health, urbanism or land-use planning, will never become permanent and will therefore always be provisional. During the discussion in committee, several members commented on the proposed amendments. However, we would like to point out that we too would have preferred to go further and, in principle, to offer the municipalities the possibility of refusing registration. The Council of State recalled at the time that registration in the population registers is an obligation and that it is a mere registration of the persons on the territory. The municipality cannot refuse to register in this case. The only possible solution was therefore the provisional invitation to tender, which, however, can never become final as long as the irregular situation of the house continues to exist. In any case, we hope that all the resources will be increased and that the administration and the judiciary will be able to take appropriate action so that infringements can be dealt with. With regard to the proposed change to register prisoners without a main residence at the reference address of the OCMW of the municipality where he last had his main residence, we still have doubts as to whether this is an effective administrative simplification. This will certainly be the case for municipalities that have prisons on their territory, but we do not see this simplification directly in prison services, for example. The latter will in future have to turn to the 589 municipalities of our country in principle, which used to be more limited. Finally, in connection with the change in civil security, we would like to reiterate the importance of the preventive tasks that are now being added to the fire zones. This is an additional assignment for the fire department. We therefore believe that this should be evaluated and that the financial consequences should be assessed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u183	Mr President, our group also welcomes the proposals contained in this draft law. Let me give you some examples. The initiatives on identity fraud and administrative simplification are an effective improvement. In addition to the statements made by Mrs Schepmans and Mr Dumon, the problem of provisional tenders and tenders is not yet fully resolved. This has already been discussed in committee. We hope that this will lead to consultation with the Regions in order to resolve these tenders once and for all. In committee, there was still some discussion as to whether or not the opinions of the Privacy Committee were followed. We are pleased that these opinions have been followed. As regards the voluntary registration or the voluntary inclusion of additional data in the National Register, the wording has been changed from "compulsory' to "voluntary'. We have some reservations about this. Until a number of years ago, the population register also listed the profession. From experience I know that this mention was almost never updated. In addition to monitoring voluntary data, we believe it will be very difficult to keep these data up-to-date. Moreover, a citizen must only present himself once every 10 years in the public service if he does not lose his identity card. With regard to the Civil Security Act of 15 May 2007, we also have a point of view. We have tabled an amendment to this effect. In our view, an opportunity has been missed to set out a path towards the planned 50/50 scheme for the financing of fire-fighting areas. As you know, the financing of the fire zones today is very difficult.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u184	Mr Top, I would like to return to what you said in your first amendment about the Privacy Commission and the obligation to include certain data, which cannot be enforced. I see that the advice of the Privacy Commission was fully followed. In the responsibility of your amendment, you write: "There is no reasonable reason to force someone to use this device in their relations and so on." If you had read the legal text correctly, you would have seen that this is not an obligation at all. Everything is purely on a voluntary basis. That is why I do not see the relevance of your amendment. I'd like to put that on the table.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u185	Mr Degroote, I do not think you have listened very carefully. I just said that we read that the opinions of the Privacy Commission were followed. The amendment was withdrawn. That is not the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u186	We're getting it all on the couch here! And your second amendment?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u187	That too was withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u188	All right, then.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u189	Then I come back to the amendment tabled and retained by our group. As already mentioned, the 2007 law states that a 50/50 distribution is to be achieved, 1 in 1, between the federal government and the local authorities on fire zones. We think it's a missed opportunity to put this in here right now. You know as we do that a lot of fire zones have financial problems to keep their heads above water. You know better than I do that different zones are considering cutting down services today, for example on urgent medical care. Or still, some zones may apply illegal rules. For this reason, we have tabled an amendment to adjust the gap between the 50/50 scheme from this financial year on.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u190	Mr President, the Minister of the Interior, we have already had the opportunity to discuss homelessness. Ms. Schepmans spoke of garages and other places in large cities, where people want to house themselves. In the more rural and touristic areas, we are confronted with residences that take place in makeshift tourist facilities. We have had an opportunity to discuss this issue in committee. Townmasters are regularly confronted with the dilemma of having to house people in the place where they live, often in conditions that are not acceptable. On the other hand, regional legislation does not provide for this type of residence. The Minister of the Interior, and I thank him for that, has expressed his full interest in this issue and has said that he wants to consult the Regions to try to accommodate a number of legislations so that they can agree with each other. For the moment in the Walloon Region, and in the Brussels Region also I think, they are discordant. Premiums cannot be granted since these homes do not meet the standards. The dilemmas are permanent, because the mayors, quite rightly, do not want to house the people and find themselves with an ex officio registration in the register of the population of the Ministry of the Interior, which respects the law as stated. I thank the Minister of the Interior for his interest in this issue and for the contacts he can make with the Regions to try to grant the violins.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u191	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your comments. In my view, most of the comments have already been discussed extensively in committee. I would like to comment on the amendment finally adopted by the sp.a Group. It is true that the law of 15 May 2007, by Mr Dewael at the time, provides for the 50-50 regime. I said, on the basis of my policy statement and also when we defended the coalition agreement here, that I would stick to the budgetary curve set out by Mrs Milquet, my predecessor, even at a time when this government is making fundamental savings. That is about the only item, I believe, where no savings are made. It is true that we will not have 50-50 regulations, and that will take some time, but I have taken that commitment and I will keep it. To the two comments on urgent medical attention, I would like to say the following. It's a good thing Mrs. De Block is here in the meantime. Firstly, I believe that in the past, apart from the areas of aid, fire-fighting reform has made a mistake by not talking about civil protection or urgent medical aid. When I look at that now, I think there's been a mistake. They should have been taken with them as a whole. After all, these things are connected. That is why we have committed ourselves, and Mrs De Block's cabinet is taking the lead and we are working on it, to present a vision of urgent medical assistance in the context of fire-fighting reform by the end of the year. This isn't something overnight can do. This is a difficult problem. There's the private ambulances, there's the hospital emergency services, there's the fire department and the Civil Protection. Most of these services provide urgent medical assistance. This needs to be looked at thoroughly. This is not an easy exercise. You are right to say that today this weighs heavily on the fire zones. We are looking at how we can deal with this. For me, this is not part of the budgetary approach of the assisted areas as such. Secondly, you say that I know that some areas do not apply the law on certain points. That's right, too. However, I have committed myself to having the inspection services visit the fire zones during the initial period of time, which we have not further defined, not to sanction, but to coach. I assume that it is not always a sign of malice if a law is not applied. We have only just started those fire zones and our inspection services will act as a coach. They will try to help the zones with the start-up. I have not further defined the initial period because we will continue to evaluate whether coaching is still needed or whether we really need to go to inspection mode. We will see how that evolves further. So I know that this does not comply with the 50-50 scheme. That was not the case in the previous legislature either. Then a curve is determined and we continue to follow it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u192	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u193	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1298/3) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1298/3) The draft law has 56 articles. The bill has 56 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u194	Amendments Nos. 1 and 2 shall be withdrawn by their author. Mrs Pas asks for a separate vote on Rule 56
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u195	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and articles that have been tabled and on the whole will take place later. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and the reserved articles as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. ****** Decision of the article-by-article discussion:
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u196	Sustained: the vote on the amendment and on Rule 56. Article adopted by article: Articles 1 to 55.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u197	******
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u198	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Luk Van Biesen, Valerie Van Peel, Nathalie Muylle, Ine Somers, Sybille de Coster-Bauchau, Karin Jiroflée, Catherine Fonck
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u199	The meeting's open. The discussion is open. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1218/7) The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1218/7)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u200	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the committee discussed this proposal for a resolution at its meetings on 7 and 20 October. The Sub-Committee of Auditors organised a hearing earlier on 6 May on the possibility of instructing the Court of Auditors to carry out relevant audits. I will give a brief summary report of the discussion in committee. On 7 October, the counsellors Didier Claisse and Rudi Moens explain what the Court of Auditors can do, how and against when. Mr Didier Claisse pointed out that the aim of the resolution was to further modernise the role of sickness funds, to increase efficiency and transparency and to strengthen accountability. In the first instance, the proposal seeks to ask the Court of Auditors to evaluate the administrative costs of the sickness funds from the point of view of both the parameter formula, which serves as the basis for the calculation of costs, and the mechanism for the distribution of these costs between the five national associations. The Court of Auditors proposes to extend its review to the general mechanism of administrative costs. It would then focus its scrutiny on the administrative cost envelope, check whether the administrative cost financing takes due account of the changing context in which the sickness funds operate and whether the envelope is distributed correctly and transparently. With regard to variable administrative costs, it would examine, inter alia, the role of the administrative cost mechanism as a catalyst and where it is located within the existing sanction measures. In addition, it would examine whether relevant criteria are used to determine the annual administrative costs and to allocate them. Mr Moens of the Court of Auditors raised points 2 and 3. Paragraph 2 deals with financial responsibility in expenditure, through the Boni and Mali systems. In concrete terms, the Court of Auditors is asked to carry out an audit of the way insurance institutions are responsive. In paragraph 3, the Court of Auditors is asked to carry out an audit of the organisation, instruments and operation of the two audit services. Mr Moens pointed out that, if Parliament so wished, the scope of the audit could be extended to cover the supervision of insurance institutions by the supervisory authorities. The Court of Auditors concludes that the investigations requested by Parliament belong to its competence and are practically feasible. Mr Luk Van Biesen announced that he would table amendments. The text itself will be discussed at the next committee meeting. Mr Luk Van Biesen informed members of the opposition that the resolution had now been signed and during the general discussion the PS, sp.a., Ecolo-Green, the N-VA, CD&V, the MR and Open Vld indicated that they could find themselves in the text of the resolution. A number of amendments are adopted which respond to the questions raised by the Court of Auditors. The resolution states that the first report will be presented in 2016, a second report in 2017 and a third report in 2018. The proposal was adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u201	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Vercamer has produced a good report on the last meeting we devoted to the problem. We worked in two parts. With this proposal for a resolution, we want to instruct the Court of Auditors to carry out a number of specific audits to examine the funding system of the sickness funds and the national associations, which has been in existence for decades. The Subcommittee on Auditor's Office first asked the Court of Auditors' advisers to tell us how we can do this together, without it being seen as an attack on the sickness funds. After all, it is absolutely not. It is an objective report which seeks to find out how we can improve the operation and financing of health insurance funds and national associations. Who better to make such an objective report than the independent institution, the Court of Auditors? It is best placed to carry out an efficient analysis of the operation and financing that exists today in a correct and clear way. I am therefore very pleased that the counsellors of the Court of Auditors, Mr Claisse and Mr Moens, have taken up this proposal. They have themselves made a number of suggestions to increase the scope so that an even better analysis could be made and they were given a little more time to carry out an analysis. These have taken shape in the three amendments to which Mr Vercamer referred in his report and which have been adopted unanimously. I thank all the groups for joining the story. I hope that in this way we will have an objective report on efficiency and that the report will give the Minister and Parliament the opportunity to evaluate certain systems which exist in the sickness funds and the national associations. I would also like to call on everyone here to make greater use of the independent institution, which is the Court of Auditors. The Court of Auditors is at the service of all of us. At the beginning of this term of office, I invited you all, as chairman of the subcommittee, to exchange views with the counsellors on your right of access and your ability to obtain certain information. The 150 Members of Parliament were elected not only to speak here, but also to exercise control and investigate certain matters. In this respect, my duty here today, as chairman of the subcommittee, is to ask you all to make greater use of the Court of Auditors and to make greater use of the system of a resolution in this House, which actually instructs the Court of Auditors to produce a number of reports which, due to the independence of the Court of Auditors, can be undisputed and lead to better legislation and decisions. I would also like to remind you that in the Subcommittee, in agreement with the various committees, we should be able to pay more attention to the various reports which the Court of Auditors is already making on specific subjects. Amongst other things, documents have been delivered about the Government of the Buildings. I think it would be useful to review all these reports together with those Members who are interested in them. I am strongly committed to finding you all at those meetings at the beginning of next year.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u202	Mr President, our group naturally supports this resolution, which aims to modernise the role of sickness funds, to increase their efficiency and transparency and to strengthen their accountability, which is certainly a good thing. This resolution therefore deserves our full support. I hear Mr Van Biesen's appeal to make greater use of the Court of Auditors. I have already said it in committee, but perhaps it will be my bad nature, and I shall say it one more time: there is one thing that our group regrets, namely that it is very explicitly stated that SNCB's sickness fund is kept out of the audit. In our view, however, this sickness fund is not only superfluous, it also absorbs 70% more administrative costs than ordinary sickness funds. The Minister replied in committee that although this resolution will not be audited, it is not excluded that this debate can be held at another time. I'll take that point with me. Since this resolution does not exclude it either, I repeat that we fully support it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u203	Mr President, in committee, I have had the opportunity to point out that the sector is already subject to numerous checks by the Office for the Control of Mutualities, by INAMI, and by approved auditors. But despite this, we must be concerned about the maximum transparency of all actors in the health sector, as well as other sectors. When public resources are at stake, maximum transparency is required. In this case, we are talking about administrative costs, which account for about 4% of total health expenditures. This therefore deserves maximum transparency. However, it is regrettable that the budget cuts were completed before the audit results were achieved. At one point, I thought it had already been done because of budget cuts. We must respect the advice given by the Court of Auditors on their legal and timing constraints. The amendments that have been tabled are in line with this, and I welcome them. On the basis of these various considerations, our group will support this resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u204	Mr. President, Madam Minister, strengthening the financial transparency of insurers is part of the will of the majority. In addition, there was a broad consensus in the committee on this text, and we can welcome it. It must be noted that the calculation of the administrative costs of insurers is unclear, complicated, opaque and therefore legitimately raises a question. This principle and the financial accountability mechanisms of insurers were introduced in the 1990s. There was then a desire to empower the various sectors of social security. It seems to us that these audits will allow us, after 25 years, to examine and evaluate the functioning of this system. During the course of the work, the Court of Auditors made several remarks and informed us about the feasibility of these audits. She even suggested that the investigation spectrum should be increased and broadened, which we have done. I think the amendments take these remarks into account. Our group supports this resolution with conviction.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u205	Mr President, as in committee, we will support this text. It may be an opportunity to see that some have a favourite sport of bandaging muscles and engaging in matamoreistic statements about mutualities in an attempt to make it appear that they are out of control. Intellectual honesty – and I dare hope everyone will recognise it – demands that we recall that they are already controlled, notably by the Office for the Control of Mutualities. We can always audit and plead for transparency. If some people find that certain rules are too complex, I think that it is first and foremost towards the state that we must turn to simplify them, since they do not result from the choice of mutuals. Let's avoid caricatural discourse. Everybody's gonna win. We will see what will be the results of this work carried out by the Court of Auditors.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u206	I understand that the resolution will be adopted unanimously. I would like to congratulate Mr Van Biesen on that. In particular, I wish him strength because he is undergoing a surgical procedure on Monday. [[Applause]] Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The meeting's over. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u207	The vote on the proposal will take place later. The vote on the proposal will take place at a later stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u208	The MR Group has given me Mr Gautier Calomne's candidacy to replace Mrs Sophie Wilmès as an alternate member of the Benelux Consultative Assembly. The MR Group sent me the candidacy of Mr Gautier Calomne to replace Ms Sophie Wilmès as an alternate member of the Benelux Inter-Parliamentary Consultative Council. Since there are no other applications, there should be no vote under Rule 157 (6) of the Rules of Procedure and I declare Mr Gautier Calomne to be an alternate member of the Benelux Consultative Council. Since there are no other candidates, there is no vote, in accordance with Rule 157(6) of the Rules of Procedure, and I declare Mr Gautier Calomne elected as an alternate member of the Benelux Inter-Parliamentary Consultative Council.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u209	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 21 October 2015, I propose that the special committee be set up to monitor the Dieselgate dossier. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 21 October 2015, I propose that you set up a special committee to follow up on the Dieselgate case. This special committee shall be set up without delay and shall be responsible for: - ensure the follow-up of the Dieselgate file and the provision of information to the members of the Chamber of Representatives; - to hear the persons and to ask for any documents it considers necessary, - make recommendations if necessary; - submit a report, the conclusions and any recommendations of which shall be put to the vote after discussion in plenary within four months of its establishment. This special commission shall be established without delay and shall be responsible for: - to ensure the regular monitoring and information of the members of the House of Representatives of the so-called Dieselgate file; - to hear the persons and to request such documents as it deems necessary; - to make recommendations, where appropriate; - to table a report, the conclusions of which and, where appropriate, recommendations, shall, after a debate in plenary, be put to the vote within four months of its establishment. The meetings of this committee shall in principle be public; the committee may meet with closed doors either on its own initiative or at the request of the persons invited. The meetings of the commission are in principle public; the commission may, on its own initiative, or at the request of the invited persons, use the closed doors. The committee shall also lay down all rules of operation which are not laid down in this text, without prejudice to the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Representatives. The Commission shall lay down all rules of operation which are not provided for in this text, without prejudice to the Rules of the House of Representatives. I propose that the special committee be composed of 17 permanent members and an equal number of alternates plus one unit, in accordance with the system of proportional representation. The mandates within the committee will be allocated as follows: I propose that the special committee be composed of 17 actual members and an equal number of alternates increased by one unit, in accordance with the system of proportional representation. The terms of reference of the Commission shall be as follows: N-VA: 4 PS: 3 MR: 3 CD&V: 2 Open Vld: 2 sp.a: 1 Ecolo-Green: 1 CdH: 1. The other political groups may each appoint one member who, without the right to vote, participates in the work of the special committee. The other recognized political groups may each appoint a member who will participate, without the right to vote, in the work of the special committee. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. The following names were communicated by the chairmen of the political groups: The following names were communicated by the presidents of the political groups: N-VA: permanent members/ staff: Johan Klaps, Werner Janssen, Bert Wollants, Daphné Dumery alternates/ suppliers: Veerle Wouters, Inez De Coninck, Hendrik Vuye, Rita Gantois, Yoleen Van Camp PS: permanent members/ staff: Fabienne Winckel, Jean-Marc Delizée, Daniel Senesael alternates/ alternates: Laurette Onkelinx, Karine Lalieux, Paul-Olivier Delannois, André Frédéric MR: permanent members/ staff: Kattrin Jadin, Caroline Cassart-Mailleux, David Clarinval alternates/ alternates: Benoît Friart, Benoît Piedboeuf, Luc Gustin, Damien Thiéry CD&V: permanent members/ effectifs: Jef Van den Bergh, Leen Dierick alternates/ supplies: Veli Yüksel, Griet Smaers, Raf Terwingen Open Vld: permanent members/ effectifs: Dirk Janssens, Egbert Lachaert alternates/ supplies: Nele Lijnen, Frank Wilrycx, Patricia Ceysens sp.a: fixed member / Actual: Maya Detiège alternates/ suppliers: Karin Temmerman, Meryame Kitir Ecolo-Green: fixed member / effectif: Jean-Marc Nollet alternates/ suppléants: Anne Dedry, Georges Gilkinet cdH: fixed member / Actual: Michel de Lamotte alternates/ supplies: Catherine Fonck, Vanessa Matz. Since the number of applications corresponds to the number of places to go, I declare the candidates elected in accordance with Rule 157.6 of the Rules of Procedure. Since the number of candidates corresponds to the number of places to be filled, I declare the candidates nominated elected pursuant to rule 157.6 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u210	Ladies and gentlemen, may I propose that the new Dieselgate Committee be set up next Wednesday at 11 a.m.? I hear Mrs. Jadin will be chairman. Are you sure you don't mind? (Applause) Then this is how it will be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u211	The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. If there is no objection, I shall consider it adopted; in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be sent to the committees responsible. If there are no comments on this subject, I will take it into account as a matter of fact and refer the proposals back to the relevant committees in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 21 October 2015, I also propose that you consider: - the legislative proposal (Mrs Griet Smaers) amending the Royal Decree of 17 January 2006 establishing a system of maternity assistance allowances for self-employed women and amending the Royal Decree of 12 December 2001 on service cheques as regards maternity assistance, No. 1386/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u212	- the legislative proposal (Mrs Sonja Becq and Mr Raf Terwingen) on the entry into force of various provisions relating to justice, No. 1387/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u213	- the motion for a resolution (Mr Daniel Senesael, Mrs Karin Temmerman and Mr Laurette Onkelinx, Mr Philippe Blanchart and Mrs Karine Lalieux and Mrs Gwenaëlle Grovonius) on the UN Conference on Climate Change (COP 21) in Paris, No. 1393/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u214	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 21 October 2015, I also propose that you take into account: - the proposal for a law (Ms Griet Smaers) amending the Royal Decree of 17 January 2006 establishing a maternity assistance scheme for self-employed workers and amending the Royal Decree of 12 December 2001 on service certificates, with regard to maternity assistance, No 1386/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u215	- the proposal for a law (Ms. Sonja Becq and Mr. Raf Terwingen) on the entry into force of various provisions in the field of justice, No. 1387/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u216	- the motion for a resolution (Mr Daniel Senesael, Mrs Karin Temmerman and Ms Laurette Onkelinx, Mr Philippe Blanchart and Mrs Karine Lalieux and Mrs Gwenaëlle Grovonius) on the United Nations Conference on Climate Change (COP 21) in Paris, No 1393/1. Reference to the Committee on Public Health, the Environment and the Renewal of the Society Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u217	Mr President, I would like to ask for the floor for an urgent motion for a resolution tabled by my fellow Members from the four majority parties (1387/01). It is a legislative proposal which provides for a postponement of the entry into force of various laws in order to give the staff and the authorities time to properly prepare the structures. The urgency lies in the fact that there are deadlines for these laws and that these deadlines expire between 1 December 2015 and 1 January 2016. It concerns, among other things, the extension of the temporary framework in the various courts of appeal so that the Councils and Substitutes-General can remain, the postponement of the entry into force of the Autonomous Police Penalty Act and, at the request of the three Communities, the independent management of the workload of the public prosecutors, which has not yet been fully completed. I therefore call for urgency to be approved.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u218	We shall give our opinion on this request for urgency in a normal manner. Whoever supports the urgency must now rise.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u219	Vote on Amendment No 7 by Marco Van Hees to Articles 2 to 38 (Chapter 2). (1297/3) Vote on Amendment No 7 by Marco Van Hees to Articles 2 to 38 (Chapter 2). (1297/3) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 2............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Yes No. 112 No Abstentions 20 Abstensions Total 134 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 8 by Marco Van Hees to Articles 2 to 38 (Chapter 2). (1297/3) Vote on Amendment No 8 by Marco Van Hees to Articles 2 to 38 (Chapter 2). (1297/3) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u220	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 9 by Marco Van Hees to Articles 2 to 38 (Chapter 2). (1297/3) Vote on Amendment No 9 by Marco Van Hees to Articles 2 to 38 (Chapter 2). (1297/3) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u221	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Consequently, Articles 2 to 38 were adopted. Accordingly, articles 2 to 38 were adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u222	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 2) Yes [[85]] Yes No. 34 No Abstentions 17 Abstensions Total 136 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1297/6) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1297/6) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u223	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 3) Yes 105 Yes No. 2............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 29 Abstensions Total 136 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1300/9) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1300/9) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u224	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes [[84]] Yes No. 2............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 49 Abstensions Total 135 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1310/6) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1310/6)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u225	Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u226	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 5) Yes 83 Yes No. 2............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 50 Abstensions Total 135 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be sent to the Senate. (1415/1) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be forwarded to the Senate. (1415/1) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u227	Vote on Amendment No 3 by Alain Top cs to insert an article 24/1 (n). (1298/4) Vote on amendment No 3 by Alain Top cs to insert an article 24/1 (n). (1298/4) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 6) Yes 49 Yes No. 81 No Abstentions 6 Abstensions Total 136 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Mrs Pas asked for a separate vote on Rule 56. Vote on Rule 56. (1298/3) Vote on Rule 56. (1298/3) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 7) Yes [[120]] Yes No. 3...................................................................................................................... 3...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... No Abstentions 13 Abstensions Total 136 Total As a result, Article 56 has been adopted. Accordingly, article 56 was adopted. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u228	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 8) Yes 119 Yes No. 2............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 15 Abstensions Total 136 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1298/5) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1298/5) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u229	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 9) Yes 133 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 135 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the motion for a resolution. It will be notified to the government. (1218/8) Accordingly, the House adopted the motion for a resolution. This will be made known to the government. (1218/8) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-22-54-plenair-ip078x.u230	We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for Thursday 29 October 2015. We must proceed to the approval of the agenda of the meeting on Thursday, 29 October 2015. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 29 October 2015 at 2.15 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Thursday, 29 October 2015, at 2.15 p.m.
