ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-17-54-commissie-ic267x.u1	Thank you, Minister, for answering our questions at noon. My questions relate to the reduced VAT rate for disabled children when buying a car. There is therefore a reduced VAT rate for the purchase of a car by parents who have a disabled child at their expense. That reduction is provided for in the Royal Decree 20 on VAT. That reduced rate when purchasing a new vehicle is subject to conditions. Among other things, it is foreseen that the advantage can only apply to a single vehicle, which is not entirely illogical. However, in the event of a divorce and co-parenting of the disabled child, the advantage continues to run only for a single parent, including the subsequent purchase of a new vehicle. This means that the other parent can no longer enjoy this advantage despite co-parenting. That's gonna make a lot of sense. The question can be asked as to whether this is fair, especially if a great deal of work has been done in recent years to achieve fiscal equivalence in the context of divorce in married couples, in order to equalise the exemptions. I would therefore like to ask you whether the European directive allows a structural solution to co-parenting in this case. Can you tell me what the administration's position is on this matter? Will you work towards a solution to this problem, in order to correct the injustice in the treatment of co-parents?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-17-54-commissie-ic267x.u2	Ms Smaers, no provision of the VAT Directive allows Member States to allow a reduced VAT rate for the supply of vehicles for disabled or disabled persons. In the context of its social policy, Belgium has been allowed by Europe to retain the benefit scheme it has applied to the supply of vehicles for certain disabled persons and disabled persons since the introduction of VAT. This authorisation is an exception which was included in the minutes of the Ecofin Council of 19 October 1992. Since it is a so-called standstill clause, it is not possible to extend the benefit scheme to other categories of disabled people. Any change to the scheme in question can only be made in the direction of a restriction or even an abolition of this benefit scheme. You have also submitted to me another case in which the application of the benefit scheme originates in the charge of a child who is disabled. The conditions of personal use by the invalid of the wagon are inherent in the application of the benefit scheme, so that, in the event of divorce, only the parent, with whom the disabled child has his address for service and where he resides principally, can apply for the benefit scheme. However, if the child resides equally with both parents, such as co-parenting, while the child is dominated with one of them, the VAT administration has decided that when applying for the benefit scheme, an agreement or a judicial decision should be submitted to the competent VAT control office which determines which of them can apply for the VAT favor scheme. Otherwise, the VAT administration assumes that the VAT favor scheme can only be applied for by the parent with whom the disabled child has his address for service.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-17-54-commissie-ic267x.u3	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. You referred to the favor scheme, as endorsed by a decision of the Ecofin Council. I'll take another look at that. I also hear that if there was a change, there would be no enlargement, but only a restriction. We try to find a mode of vivendi for all parents within co-parenthood as best we can. If no judgment can be submitted, then an agreement between the two parents can be obtained, with a mutual arrangement. My second question concerned the reduced VAT rate when buying a car for disabled people and a number of more specific conditions for using that reduced rate. The specific conditions provide, inter alia, that only a number of categories of disabled persons may be entitled to the reduced rate if there is at least 50% invalidity. Does the European directive also allow for a structural solution for people with a serious growth disorder, a different derogation or disability than those provided for in the relevant article? Does the European directive also allow a structural solution for other people who do not have an invalidity of at least 50%? I know the position of you and your administration. I assume that it is partly in line with the answer to my previous question, but can you give additional answers specifically on those terms or do you refer to the general answer?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-17-54-commissie-ic267x.u4	I refer to my previous reply. With regard specifically to VAT, I would like to ask the VAT administration about this aspect, but otherwise the answer I have just given is the same.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-17-54-commissie-ic267x.u5	Minister, you may know the evolution of the healthcare landscape and the developments that should make it possible to invest more in service flats and services for the elderly. In this landscape, a specific purchasing formula, called the residence right certificate, has been developed in recent years. That certificate actually amounts to a right of residence that is sold to the elderly or caregiver. That person shall, in turn, make a deposit for the acquisition of the certificate. Only when one does, one has the right or priority to inhabit the service flat. The cost of living or the actual price for living in the service flat is determined on the basis of the capital invested and the return. For the years in question, a rent is paid for the service flat. The purchase formula itself is sold as an investment instrument, i.e. a bond. As a result, the potential candidate avoids paying certain taxes, such as the property tax, registration fees, VAT on new buildings, as the residence right certificate does not cover the sale of real estate and is therefore not eligible for the usual charges. Can you tell me what is the correct legal qualification of the relevant residence certificate, which has been used several times? Is it an investment instrument, a financial product, or something completely different? In the case of an investment instrument, do you not think that municipalities and health care companies should be approved by the FSMA? Should the FSMA not monitor such practices? Or do you think that the residence right certificate is not the responsibility of the market regulator? Is there, in your opinion, misleading information and false investment advice when municipalities and health care companies sell such a formula and buy it back after 20 years, thus undermining the actual resident's right to live? Finally, can you tell me which other institutions, and these could be health care institutions, already use such formulas?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-17-54-commissie-ic267x.u6	Mr President, Mrs Smaers, the products to which you refer are indeed investment instruments of the type of bonds. The objective of the project for which those bonds are issued is to finance the construction of rest homes and in return to facilitate access to those rest homes. If the minimum investment is at least EUR 100 000, which is usually the case for such products, the obligation to publish a prospectus approved by the FSMA shall not apply in relation to the bonds in question. Nor does that obligation apply if the bond is unconditionally and irrevocably guaranteed by a local government. These exceptions derive from European law in this area. However, this does not mean that those eligible for those exceptions should not inform tenderers correctly, but rather that the FSMA does not supervise that information. However, it is not right for me to make statements on a case-by-case basis on whether or not the information published is misleading. Unfortunately, I cannot tell you which other institutions might use such formulas.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-17-54-commissie-ic267x.u7	Mr President, Minister, my question is from August. Since then, new developments have taken place and other questions have been asked. So I'll be very brief. At the beginning of the year, you announced that your administration was working on a structural advance scheme to pay the additional personal tax (IPP) in favour of the municipalities. Last May, a meeting took place and I would like to know the status of this project. Given the losses announced for 2015, I know that some municipalities will benefit from a cash advance, but it is not a structural mechanism. This is simply compensation at the end of the year. What I am really interested in is the state of play in the implementation of this system of structural advances in favour of all the municipalities with regard to the payment of the extras to the PPI.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-17-54-commissie-ic267x.u8	Mr President, Minister, I would like to speak for all the municipalities that have to draw up their budgets for 2016. They are concerned because they are not only victims of late communication from the FPS Finances, but they see the revenue announced to them in sharp decline. We're talking about 10 to 20 percent reduction. I was able to consult the mail received by a medium-sized municipality which sees its additional revenues at the PPI melt by almost 200,000 euros. She only received this information now. When drawing up the budget, it is particularly difficult and not acceptable from the point of view of the municipal officials concerned. My questions are therefore as follows. What justifies this late communication? When are these estimates generally reported? What is the reason for the repeated delays in recruitment, as it was already the case last year? What measures will be put in place to limit them in the future? What will be the average decrease in additional revenue for the municipalities? What are the reasons for this? What is the role in this decrease in revenues from the first tax measures decided by the federal government? For what reasons has the compensation granted under the Convention with the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg been abolished for municipalities whose number of residents in the Grand Duchy is less than 5 %? How many municipalities are involved? What is the total amount of compensation that will no longer be granted for fiscal year 2015? What compensation is provided by the federal government for communes who are victims of this repeated bad news?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-17-54-commissie-ic267x.u9	Mr Dispa and Mr Gilkinet, the estimates relating to the municipal additions to the tax of natural persons were made within the normal time limits. As in previous years, estimates were sent at the end of October. This year, the letters were issued on October 30th. Due to the unpredictable delay in the enrolment process for the 2015 tax year, it was difficult to produce representative estimates of the municipal tax additional to the personal tax. The delay was caused by the introduction of the sixth reform of the State in the tax-calculation programmes for natural persons. Aware of the potential cash flow problems experienced by some cities and municipalities as a result of changes in the pace of the recruitment process, I decided last August to grant them a "purely financial" advance. This advance represents the difference between the initial assessment conducted in October 2014 and the estimate made at the end of October 2015. It goes without saying that the cities and municipalities benefiting from this advance are those which should receive less than the amount originally estimated. In other words, cities and municipalities for which the new estimate is higher than the original estimate will not receive any advance, for obvious reasons. There is therefore no question of prejudice against the communes. In order to address the above-mentioned problems of cities and municipalities in a sustainable manner, the FPS Finance is committed to making every effort to ensure that a structural solution can be found for each of them, starting with the 2016 tax year. It should be noted that the decrease in revenue in 2015 from the original forecast is not at all the result of the tax measures decided by the government at the tax shift level. The first impact will only be visible from the 2016 budget year. In this context, it should be noted that cities and municipalities have been warned of the impact resulting from tax shift measures for the 2016 tax year. This effect will therefore be visible from the data provided for the 2016 budget. The new agreement between the Belgian State and the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg makes it clear that cities and municipalities must have a relationship between the fictitious PPI and the total PPI in excess of 5% in order to obtain compensation at the level of the PPI/com. As in every international convention, agreement or settlement, there are winning parties and losing parties. Overall speaking, Belgium is a winner because the total amount granted by the Grand Duchy amounts to EUR 30 million from 2015, while the amount granted on the basis of the first convention on the subject was only EUR 18 million. It is clear that Belgium must respect this Convention. Finally, I would like to point out that the amount is to be broken down between cities and municipalities in accordance with the above condition. In this context, it should be noted that I have granted the municipalities no longer receiving any compensation under the Belgian-Luxembourg agreement an additional advance covering the amount announced in the initial estimates.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-17-54-commissie-ic267x.u10	Minister, I do not want to reopen the debate on the situation of the communes. With regard to my specific request on the system of structural advances, I note that this mechanism should be in place as early as next year. I really hope that this will be possible because we are there soon. I hope that you will be able to return quickly to us with the legal provisions, if any, or regulations that you will have taken to ensure that this system is effective from the beginning of 2016. I can assure you that we will not let you down on this subject and that we will come back to you very regularly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-17-54-commissie-ic267x.u11	Minister, while I fully understand the delays associated with the tax changes resulting from the reform of the state, I would ask you to take into account the current discomfort of the municipal administrations regarding late communications. You also confirm that as of 2016, federal tax choices will have a significant impact on municipalities that will have to reduce services to citizens or subsidies to certain important sectors or increase taxes themselves. This operation will not be particularly positive for the citizen. Indeed, the tax gift given by the federal state will have to be compensated by the municipality. This shows the limits of the tax shift that we consider not to be one. With regard to the compensation granted under the Convention with the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, it would be useful to know the common details by commune, to see which municipalities were the winners and who were the losers. I will therefore re-examine the matter in writing, hoping that you will respond a little more quickly than for other written questions that I have transmitted to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-17-54-commissie-ic267x.u12	Mr President, I think I have made a mistake in the title of the question. Indeed, one question relates to the purpose you have indicated, but the attached question relates to the cost of collecting tax in Belgium. Minister, the OECD recently published a study that compares the tax performance of OECD member countries. Belgium ranks third in the low-enviable ranking of countries with the highest tax collection costs. I shall save you the figures contained in the question I have addressed to you. Belgium is also one of the countries with the highest costs, taking as its criterion the cost of collection in relation to the net income received. And when we look at evolution over time, we can see that things are not improving. On the other hand, another criterion is worrying. I am referring to the share of expenditure in information technology compared to the total expenditure of the tax administration. Indeed, we can observe that Belgium's relative share is very, very low, which explains our very poor position in the ranking. I just wanted to ask you about these numbers and this study. Do these numbers surprise you? What lessons have you learned from this OECD report? Let me turn to my second question. Mr Minister, on 15 February last the Court of Auditors published an audit report on the organisation of personal tax controls. This report examined in particular the performance and use of STIRCO, the computer application developed to manage the control program and scan control files. Its conclusions are far from positive. For example, on page 29 it is stated: "It appears from the above findings that the closure of a control mission by the head of department does not offer any guarantee of the quality and accuracy of the control, contrary to the requirements of the directives". The Court of Auditors concludes that "the results sheets do not reflect the results of the control actions reliably". Finally, reference is made to your reply, which is limited to taking note of the report that was communicated to your predecessor in September 2014. Mr Minister, what action has been taken to resolve the problems raised in this report by the Court of Auditors?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-17-54-commissie-ic267x.u13	Mr President, Mr Dispa, the OECD report entitled "Tax administration 2015" to which the question refers and which also indirectly involves the second question is an update of similar reports from 2011 and 2013. The FPS Finance provides input for this report for Belgium. The figures on this subject for our country have already been commented on in answers to various written questions. As pointed out by the OECD itself, the ratio of collection costs to tax revenues cannot be seen as an indicator of the effectiveness of tax collection. In order to do so, the particularities of the tax system must be taken into account and these vary greatly from one country to another. The OECD indicates not only differences in tax structures and tax burden but also, in particular, methodological gaps in international comparisons of administrative costs and differences in the tasks performed by different tax administrations. Thus, not all administrations included in the OECD study are responsible for collecting tariffs or updating a real estate cadastre. The evolution over time of the cost ratios is relevant, even more so than the comparison between countries, although the perspective here is also clouded by shifts in costs and/or revenues, over which the administration has no direct impact, such as the consequences of the economic situation or the shift in the collection of certain taxes from the federal to the regional level. Moreover, it cannot be lost sight of the fact that ICT investments and other similar investments initially increase costs and put pressure on cost ratios only later. However, the trend is clearly declining in our country. The digitisation of data processing, the in-depth risk analysis during tax controls and the reduction of staff, in particular, have enabled costs to be reduced considerably in recent years. Like the OECD, we can conclude that the cost-to-net revenue ratio for the FPS Finances is close to the OECD average. Compared to GDP, the administrative costs in our country are certainly well above the OECD average, but this is mainly due to the high weight that our country traditionally places on the tax instrument. The desire remains, of course, to continue to increase the efficiency of the entire tax system.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-17-54-commissie-ic267x.u14	Mr Minister, does your answer also apply to the question concerning the Court of Auditors' report?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-17-54-commissie-ic267x.u15	I will come back to your comments on STIRCO later.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-17-54-commissie-ic267x.u16	Minister, thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-17-54-commissie-ic267x.u17	Minister, my question is about the technique adopted by many banks offering savings accounts that must be financed on the basis of monthly payments. These accounts are accompanied by an interest rate, at first glance, which is advantageous. However, a consumer association has looked into the matter and it appears that banks are delivering a message that can mislead the consumer. Indeed, these savings accounts are accompanied by a very low base rate and a high loyalty premium. However, the loyalty premium is calculated on the basis of the amounts that remained in the account for 12 months. In a capped monthly payment account, only one-twelfth of the amount paid over a year will receive the loyalty bonus. Minister, is this practice consistent with the law? What actions do you intend to take to combat this practice, which may seem misleading in some respects?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-17-54-commissie-ic267x.u18	Mr President, Mr Dispa, this practice is not in itself illegal. In response to your second question, I can tell you that we have decided to examine this in more detail in collaboration with the National Bank to decide whether further actions should be taken or not.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-17-54-commissie-ic267x.u19	Minister, thank you for your answer. If you will, I will invite you to share with us the conclusions of this working group set up within the National Bank to see if measures can be taken to limit the perverse effects of this practice.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-17-54-commissie-ic267x.u20	Mr Mathot is not here. His question No. 6379 is deleted.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-17-54-commissie-ic267x.u21	Minister, I would like to get some more information on the excise duty regime for tractors. According to the Royal Decree of 19 March 2014, the rate of the excise duty payable depends on whether or not it is subject to the periodic technical inspection. The RB shall also determine which vehicles are required to undergo a periodic inspection. However, there are exceptions to that scheme and therefore exceptions to the rate to be paid for excise duties. One of the exceptions is the tractor used by the road managers or their contractors to maintain the environment of the roads or, during the winter, to clear snow or scatter salt on the public road. The local authorities have a lot of doubts about this. They are responsible for the maintenance of roads, canals and roadsides. It is unclear whether or not they should be subject to technical inspection and whether or not they should pay the high rate of excise duty on diesel. Hence a few questions for clarification. Mr Minister, can you clarify what is meant by the maintenance of roads? How far does that go? Is it only the roads or also the verges and the canals? This determines what they are allowed to use the vehicle for. Can you confirm that these vehicles may also, where appropriate, use the reduced rate for industrial and commercial purposes?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-17-54-commissie-ic267x.u22	Mr Wilrycx, the interpretation of the legal provisions concerning the exemption from the periodic technical inspection of certain agricultural and forestry tractors, including those used to maintain the environment of the roads, falls within the competence of my colleague in the case of Mobility. You will therefore have to turn to her to get a clear answer. If a vehicle, e.g. a agricultural or forestry tractor, is not subject to this periodic technical inspection and therefore does not have a licence for predominantly public road use, the engine of this vehicle may be driven with marked gas oil at the reduced rate for what is called industrial and commercial purposes. The rate currently stands at 22.74 euros per 1 000 litres.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-17-54-commissie-ic267x.u23	I will also submit my question to the Minister for Mobility. There are few answers to this question. The VVSG does not know what to answer to the municipalities either. Perhaps it would not be a bad thing for the government to publish a letter on this matter. Then the municipalities know if they can refuel red or white diesel. I will put my question to your colleague.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-17-54-commissie-ic267x.u24	Debates of the European Parliament Question No 6399, by Mr de la Malène 6400, Question No Question No 6406 and Question No 6406 Mr Mathot's 6407 were deleted since Mr Mathot was not present.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-17-54-commissie-ic267x.u25	Mr Minister, the question I would like to ask now concerns the rate of 6% for demolition and reconstruction in a number of cities and municipalities. I'll give them a brief introduction. I assume that some of your answer will consist of figures. After all, I have asked for a lot of figures to assess the impact on the 32 cities and municipalities which can apply a reduced rate of 6% on the demolition and reconstruction of real estate in the metropolitan area. I found it strange at the time that the measure only applies in 32 specific cities and municipalities, because it does not meet the objective of stimulating the construction sector in Belgium through fair incentives. I do not understand why the 32 cities and municipalities have been chosen, while the reduced rate should also apply to certain cities and municipalities whose local government and other authorities feel that they are eligible for tax incentives for reconstruction and urban development, regardless of the total area. The rate now applies to the entire territory of certain cities or municipalities, without any vision of impulse policy and urban development. That's why I think this is a weird arrangement, tout court. I have asked you a number of questions to assess the impact of that regulation and the reduced VAT rate. I would ask you to answer my questions about the effects, the figures, the creation of jobs and the additional revenue for the construction sector. The latter was always one of the principles behind the measures. So I also assume that there is a measurable effect. If that is not measurable, I ask myself a number of questions about that principle.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-17-54-commissie-ic267x.u26	Mr President, Mrs Smaers, only the evolution of tax expenditure on VAT revenue, which is accompanied by the application of that reduced rate of 6%, gives an indication of the increase in the reduction in demolition and reconstruction work. The figures for 2010-2013 are as follows: EUR 37.8 million for 2010, EUR 21 million for 2011, EUR 20 million for 2012 and EUR 14.3 million for 2013. No data are available for 2014. However, the 2010 figure is not fully comparable to that for subsequent years, since this measure was temporarily in force for the whole of Belgium during the years 2009 and 2010. From 2011 onwards, the measure will be limited to the 32 cities and municipalities concerned. This VAT reduction is part of a global initiative, apparently at various levels of government, to give the deprived neighbourhoods an incentive to renovate. Therefore, when assessing such an initiative, there is little point in considering a specific measure. It is clear, however, that in the field of urban regeneration this has changed in concrete terms in our cities. With regard to the specific employment consequences of this measure, I do not currently have any figures. I also doubt that they can be made available.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-17-54-commissie-ic267x.u27	In fact, Minister, you cannot give me many figures. One of the incentives behind this measure, which you are still talking about, is to combat urban decay and boost certain neighbourhoods. I think that is a very good incentive, but the measures you are taking are not the right ones. Since 2011, the entire territory of a city or municipality has been granted a reduced rate. If the incentive is to combat urban degradation and ensure urban development in an urban planning context with which I fully agree, then this measure on the reduction of the VAT rate does not go to that objective, since it applies to the entire territory of that municipality or city and not to any particular district or neighbourhood. I will look at the figures again, but at first glance they do not know whether there is a response, including with regard to the other objectives, and whether additional employment is being created.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-17-54-commissie-ic267x.u28	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Dedecker's 6504 was deleted because he was not present. Debates of the European Parliament Question No 6556 and Question No Mrs Smaers' 7350 will be converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Question No 66, by Mr Laaouej and No 6611 Mr Gilkinet (PPE). - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. The same applies to Question No 5, by Mr De Gucht, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Question No 66, by Mrs Wouters: Question No 67, by Mr Clarinval: Question No 68, by Mr Mathot: Question No 68, by Mrs Lanjri and Question No 68, by Mrs Lanjri Mr Gilkinet. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Piedboeuf's 6943 question was converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Question No 6, by Mr Dedecker is deleted because of the absence of the author, and that also applies to Question No 6, by Mr Dedecker. 7008 by Mr Crusnière.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-17-54-commissie-ic267x.u29	Mr President, Minister, my question relates to the consequences of a judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union concerning foreign exchange transactions in Bitcoins.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-17-54-commissie-ic267x.u30	As a reminder, bitcoin is a fast-growing electronic means of payment since it has been created for less than ten years. The European Court of Justice considers that the transactions involved are exempt from VAT in the European Union. However, this currency poses a number of problems. Moreover, in 2014, your predecessor had considered that this virtual currency was not a legal method of payment and had indicated that working groups had been set up within the European Central Bank to examine all the consequences of this practice and draw conclusions from it, the analysis to be finalized by May 2014. Minister, what are the consequences of the judgment of the European Court of Justice for Belgium? Is this ruling implying a change of status for the bitcoin in Belgium? Are you aware of the conclusions of the European Central Bank's working group on virtual currencies? Does the government intend to tax virtual currency exchanges?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-17-54-commissie-ic267x.u31	Mr President, Mr Dispa, like the vast majority of the other Member States, Belgium was of the opinion that bitcoins could not be regarded as a legal method of payment. In this regard, the Court's judgment is therefore unexpected. The consequences of the judgment of 22 October 2015 remain fairly limited in terms of VAT as regards the negotiation of bitcoins. Bitcoin foreign exchange transactions remain exempt on the basis of Article 44(3), No. 9 of the VAT Code. The negotiation of a third party under an agreement for the transfer of bitcoins shall remain exempt on the basis of the same provision. It seems to me appropriate to consult directly the document published this year by the European Central Bank. The Commission sees risks, particularly for users – which has been recalled by the National Bank and the FSMA – as opportunities, especially for financial institutions. Attention should therefore be paid to developments in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-17-54-commissie-ic267x.u32	Minister, thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-17-54-commissie-ic267x.u33	Friday morning, the European Commission is on the agenda. In the afternoon we will start the discussion of the bill on FATCA at 2 p.m. I would like to propose that the remaining oral questions be taken next Tuesday. Tuesday afternoon, the Minister will present his policy paper. I propose that we then deal with the oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-17-54-commissie-ic267x.u34	Mr President, I believe that Mr Deseyn had asked for the necessary urgency to deal with this bill. I also believe that there is a certain urgency.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-17-54-commissie-ic267x.u35	Okay, then we'll deal with this bill on Friday afternoon. There's a meeting scheduled for Friday afternoon. The oral questions will be discussed next Tuesday. Mr. Secretary, thank you for this marathon meeting.
