ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-25-54-commissie-ic129x.u1	Mr President, Minister, I have heard from the media that on 13 March the Council of Ministers approved the preliminary draft law approving the agreement between the Kingdom of Belgium and the Isle of Man and the preliminary draft law approving the agreement between the Kingdom of Belgium and the Seychelles. Both countries are included in the list of so-called tax havens. They're even very renowned tax havens. I must say that that decision surprised me for two reasons. The first reason is a domestic reason. In 2009, the committee dealing with the major tax fraud issued Recommendation No. 97 adopted. If I am not mistaken, that recommendation was approved by majority and opposition parties. It said that Belgium would no longer sign double taxation treaties with reputable tax havens. The second reason for my amazement is that these treaties will actually have only one effect, namely that companies that establish a post office bus company on the Isle of Man will pay at most one third of normal taxes in Belgium. In short, it means that Belgium is undermining the efforts made by the OECD and the European Union, namely to ensure that large multinational companies can no longer do BEPS, Base Erosion and Profit Shifting. By now approving such a treaty, we are making it possible to do so again. This is contrary to the recommendation of the committee which is considering the major tax fraud and developments in the OECD and the European Union. Hence my question as to why the Belgian Government still agrees to a double tax treaty with those two renowned tax havens.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-25-54-commissie-ic129x.u2	Mr President, the report on Action Line 6 of the BEPS Action Plan, the prevention of the granting of Treaty benefits in what is called "inappropriate circumstances', clarifies the fiscal policy considerations that countries generally have to take into account before deciding to conclude a tax treaty with another country. The report recognises that there are many non-fiscal considerations that could lead to the conclusion of a tax treaty and that each country has the sovereign right to decide to conclude tax treaties with any country with which it so wishes. Since it is one of the main objectives of the tax treaties to avoid double taxation, thus reducing barriers to cross-border services, trade and investment, the existence of the risk of double taxation is the primary concern in terms of fiscal policy. When a decision is taken to conclude a tax treaty with a low-taxing country, account is also taken of the fact that Belgian national law in some cases does not allow unilateral double taxation to be avoided. In this respect, the agreement with the Seychelles provides for the following provisions, and I shall make three specific points. First, if the Seychelles tax on profits is less than 15% of the net amount of income, Belgium does not exempt that income but reduces the Belgian tax which is proportional to that income to half. Secondly, dividends obtained by a company resident in Belgium from a company resident in Seychelles are exempt from corporation tax on the terms and conditions laid down in Belgian law. The restrictions laid down in Articles 203 and 73/4quater therefore continue to apply without prejudice. Thirdly, in so far as the abovementioned dividends are not exempt, Belgium reduces the Belgian corporation tax by the tax levied in Seychelles on those dividends or on the profits from which those dividends were paid. As far as the agreement with the Isle of Man is concerned, there are two essential comments. First, if the corporation tax of the Isle of Man is less than 10% of the net amount of income, Belgium does not exempt that income but reduces the Belgian corporation tax which is proportional to that income to a third party. Secondly, dividends obtained by a company resident in Belgium from a company resident in the Isle of Man are exempt from corporation tax only on the terms and limits laid down in Belgian law. The restrictions laid down in Articles 203 and 73/4quater therefore continue to apply in principle. However, under the agreement with the Isle of Man, that exemption applies where the income from the dividends is taxed on the Isle of Man at a rate of at least 10%. Those provisions ensure, on the one hand, that Belgium does not exempt income not actually taxed in Seychelles or on the Isle of Man and, on the other hand, that any current or future double taxation is avoided. In addition, the agreements with Seychelles and the Isle of Man each contain a generally applicable anti-abuse measure which makes it possible to refuse a treaty advantage where one of the main objectives of a person is to obtain that benefit. Those provisions are similar to the principal purpose test or PPT recommended in the report under Action Line 6 of the BEPS project. Since the prevention of tax avoidance and avoidance is an important objective of the tax treaties, the agreements with both Seychelles and the Isle of Man provide for a comprehensive exchange of information including bank data. In conclusion, I would like to say that the conventions referred to here are not contrary to the provisions of the BEPS Action Plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-25-54-commissie-ic129x.u3	Minister, we have had lengthy discussions in committee on the double taxation treaties on the major tax fraud. Double taxation treaties can have two advantages. Firstly, information exchange, as you said. For the Isle of Man it was about exchange of information on demand. We do not need this, because since 2013 there has been an international consensus, and if I am not mistaken, Man is among the early adopters, which aims at an automatic exchange of information from 2017. The Treaty therefore makes no sense in this respect. Within two years, we will have a much better form of information exchange at international level. Secondly, the Isle of Man does not levy taxes. The general corporate tax rate is zero. No withholding tax on dividends, interest and royalties. A double tax treaty with the Isle of Man therefore makes no sense. On the contrary, the treaty which the government has now approved leads to a double non-taxation. Although, I have to make a correction. In Belgium this is not a non-taxation, but you yourself admit that, just because there has been a post-bus company on the Isle of Man or Seychelles, this will result in the tax still to be paid in Belgium being about a third of what Belgian companies will have to pay. In short, you will ensure that large multinational companies will have to pay less taxes. This is contrary to the operations currently under way by the EU and the OECD. The best anti-abuse clause we can take here is not to conclude double taxation treaties with tax havens. Mr Minister, I have looked it up, and I have noticed that in the past five to six years - since people started thinking differently about taxation, after the financial crisis - no countries with Malta have ratified the kind of double taxation treaties that the government is now presenting to us. There are a few in terms of avoiding double taxation of wages and the like, but this is about avoiding double taxation of companies, which does not exist because they do not have to pay taxes. Only Malta and Estonia have signed double taxation treaties on corporate taxation since 2009 - I emphasise corporate taxation. Tax-civilised countries do not sign double tax treaties with tax havens. Mr Minister, before you submit the treaty to the Chamber, it will have to be approved in the Committee on External Relations, where you can count on some counter-arguments. I therefore ask you to present this decision first to the European Commission or to the OECD, asking whether Belgium's intention fits in with the newly defined European policy and is in line with OECD policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-25-54-commissie-ic129x.u4	Mr Minister, my question concerns the first Cayman tax of the previous government, while we are waiting for the second Cayman tax. I have questions about what has already been decided and what is in progress. Some taxpayers bring their assets under trusts, foreign foundations and other legal arrangements, on which either no tax or a very minimal tax is levied. In most cases, the tax authority is not aware of the involvement of the Belgian taxpayer which could create a tax vacuum. The information that has recently become public through offshore leaks, including through HSBC, shows that such constructions allow taxpayers to withdraw assets and income from those assets from the eyes of the tax authorities, even without having to rely on banking secrecy. With the Law of 30 July 2013, the previous government already took the first step towards a transparency regime for these so-called offshore structures by introducing a reporting obligation in respect of such legal arrangements, as already existed in respect of financial accounts or life insurance contracts abroad. Therefore, that obligation exists and that means that, as of the 2014 tax year, those constructions must be included in the annual income tax declaration. The reporting obligation thus already exists. The submission deadlines have now expired for the 2014 attack year. I'd like some information from you on that. How many taxpayers have reported their involvement in a legal arrangement? How many taxpayers reported life insurance contracts with a foreign insurance company for the 2013 and 2014 tax years respectively? Can you explain what action is being taken by your administration to establish that a taxable person is reporting a legal arrangement, a foreign life insurance policy or a foreign account? Have control actions already been set up or envisaged on the basis of the information obtained on such foreign life insurance and legal arrangements? How many taxable persons were selected for control in this context?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-25-54-commissie-ic129x.u5	Mr President, Mr Vanvelthoven, first of all I should like to point out that the initial collections relating to the 2014 attack year are still in full swing. On the basis of provisional data provided for that year of attack, I can give a few figures of the situation as known until the end of February 2015. It concerns 1 262 taxable persons who have declared their beneficiary or potential beneficiary of one of the legal arrangements in question. As the abovementioned withdrawal period does not end until 30 June 2015, definitive data on this subject can only be made available from July 2015. For the 2013 tax year, I can inform you that 37 073 taxpayers have reported that they have concluded a life insurance contract with a non-resident life insurance company or insurance company. For the 2014 attack year, the final data are not yet available. Also on the basis of provisional data, known by the end of February 2015, it appears that 35 861 taxable persons have already used the relevant code in the personal income tax return, to which you refer. If the taxable person mentions in his declaration a legal arrangement, a foreign life insurance policy or an external account, the administration may initiate an investigation. On the basis of the results of that examination, it may, where appropriate, impose an additional tax. The declaration of the legal arrangements in question should be made for the first time in the personal income tax declaration for the 2014 tax year for the year 2013. A control action that would be carried out in this context can only be organised by the tax administration at the earliest from the 2016 control period.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-25-54-commissie-ic129x.u6	Mr President, Minister, thank you for the figures. I understand that there will be complete clarity within a few months. There would have been 1 262 taxable persons reported. Do I have to understand from your answer that these declarations will remain until 2016 before any action is taken?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-25-54-commissie-ic129x.u7	I understand from the administration that, in order for all this to be carried out in a procedural manner, we need a certain period of time.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-25-54-commissie-ic129x.u8	I do not know the administrative practices in this respect.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-25-54-commissie-ic129x.u9	If you wish, I can give you more details.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-25-54-commissie-ic129x.u10	That notification has been made for certain constructions suspected of being involved again, it is not evidence of black money but it is a conjecture, so I wonder whether there can be a shorter playing on the ball for those specific cases.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-25-54-commissie-ic129x.u11	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-25-54-commissie-ic129x.u12	Mr. Secretary, I assume you will have that information delivered to everyone. If not, I'll come back to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-25-54-commissie-ic129x.u13	I made sure yesterday that our services emailed the report as soon as it was on the FPS Finance website. I do not know whether your question is just about the publication or about the content.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-25-54-commissie-ic129x.u14	Mr President, Minister, we have indeed been given the link to the relevant monitoring committee report. I had tabled my question before being put to Minister Jamar in plenary last week. The monitoring committee's report was only published on Thursday evening, with the result that Minister Jamar did not really reply to the questions in plenary, which took place during the day. There was only an announcement of the presentation of the monitoring committee's report later that evening. In addition, Mr Jamar replied that consultations with the Länder on the budgetary figures and on the influence of the Länder' budgets on federal budgetary control were ongoing and that he was certainly still waiting for the right approach after the regional budgetary controls so that their input can be taken into account in federal budgetary control. I repeat very briefly what I said in plenary last week. It is important to continue the work done at the end of last year with the budget format for 2015. After all, Europe is also asking for a path towards a balanced budget and a structural improvement in the debt balance. Year after year, this work should continue. The path agreed with Europe must not be abandoned. Of course, we also want to know what work the Länder will be doing in the coming weeks. From our group, I also think it is important to note that budgetary discipline is important and that no additional debt should be built up for future generations. As last year, budgetary work must be done very carefully, in line with the path Europe has set itself. That is why I would like to ask you the following questions. First of all, on the basis of the results of the monitoring committee's report, what is the estimated evolution of revenue? What is the impact in 2015 of government measures on revenue? Secondly, what conclusions do you draw from the monitoring committee's report? We know that there is a lot of work in the field of budgetary control and that there is still important work on the table this week and next week. Nevertheless, I would like to ask you about your conclusions from the monitoring committee's report, in view of the work to be done on budgetary control and in view of Europe's objectives.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-25-54-commissie-ic129x.u15	Mr President, my question was about making the report available. I would therefore like to thank both the President and the Minister for anticipating my request. As far as the content is concerned, I do not want to embarrass the minister, but I agree with the questions that my colleague has just asked. And I may wish the minister a good weekend, not knowing whether or not it will be devoted to budgetary control. Anyway, I hope it will be a fruitful weekend!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-25-54-commissie-ic129x.u16	Ms Smaers, the estimated total federal tax revenue collected by the FPS Finance is EUR 101.6 billion for 2015. This is an amount without the EUR 3.5 billion of regional taxes that are still being collected by federal authorities and without the EUR 2.2 billion of customs duties collected on behalf of the European Union. Compared to the figures achieved for 2014, this is an increase of 2.5 billion or about 2.5 %. The impact of the measures agreed by the government during the budget conclave at the start of the government in October 2014 amounts to EUR 495 million for 2015. The details of this, as you are sure by now, Mrs Smaers, are on page 25 of the monitoring committee's report. In my view, tax revenue is not so bad given that private income growth is estimated at 1.1 % compared to 2.8 % in the initial budget format. Non-tax revenue at present appears to be below the initial estimate of EUR 295 million and interest charges would fall by EUR 207 million compared to what was envisaged. The more general conclusions of the monitoring committee are actually the responsibility of the Minister for the Budget. I would simply like to say a few words about two points that you have rightly raised. First of all, as far as Europe is concerned, I think it is obvious, given also the concerns about monetary union with the current situation of certain countries, which you also know, that we remain on the agreed path. Monetary union is only viable if the agreements are properly respected. The same applies to our budgetary commitments. There can always be some discussion, but the broad lines must be clear and followed. A second important element, which has a repercussion on the overall budget picture, is what will come from the regions. In this respect, it is still awaiting the report of the Supreme Court of Finance. I expect that report tomorrow or the day after tomorrow at the latest. That report will give us much clearer and unambiguous figures on the situation of the regions and the Communities, so that we can all speak the same language. In my view, these are two important additional comments on the overall budgetary situation with a view to budgetary control which, as you rightly point out, has been launched.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-25-54-commissie-ic129x.u17	Mr. President, Minister, the Governor of the National Bank, Luc Coene, left his post on March 10, 2015. Amounts are paid in respect of a supplementary pension which he would receive in addition to his normal pension. We are talking about an amount of EUR 7.5 million, which I think is quite huge. Minister, what is the monthly amount of the pension received by the former Governor of the National Bank? What is the amount of his supplementary pension, if any? By whom are these amounts fixed and according to what criteria? If these amounts are as large as they are said, do you find them justified?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-25-54-commissie-ic129x.u18	Mr Van Hees, the Governor of the National Bank of Belgium does not have the status of official. It is independent, both in terms of social status and in terms of functioning. The salaries of the members of the management of the National Bank are the responsibility of the National Bank itself. In accordance with the law, it is the National Bank's regency board that determines the salaries and pensions of members of the management. The regency council is a supervisory body whose composition reflects the different socio-economic interests of our country. In its work, the Regency Board is advised by the National Bank's Compensation Committee. The National Bank publishes an annual detailed description of its remuneration policy in its corporate report. As far as pensions are concerned, these texts specify that the Governor and the other members of the Board of Directors of the National Bank are entitled to a pension plan offering them a supplementary pension in addition to the statutory pension. Combined with the salary, this supplementary pension aims to provide a fair wage package proportional to the responsibilities of the function and to attract and motivate competent administrators. It should be noted, however, that the pensions of the members of the Board of Directors of the National Bank, including the Governor, are subject to the provisions of the Wijninckx Act of 5 August 1978, which aims, inter alia, to limit pensions in the public sector to the amount of the pension which was granted to the Secretary-General of the Ministry after a full career. It logically follows that the amount you quote is not correct.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-25-54-commissie-ic129x.u19	Are you talking about the supplementary pension included?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-25-54-commissie-ic129x.u20	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-25-54-commissie-ic129x.u21	Minister, I take note of your answer. You're saying the amount I quoted is not correct. I am satisfied because, indeed, it would be quite incomprehensible in these times of austerity, particularly defended by the former governor of the National Bank, that he himself would grant such large amounts. I wish I knew the exact amounts. This would have brought some clarity and transparency to the issue. I wonder why you can't quote them from me. Do you not know them or do you consider that they should not be communicated? Your answer, which is only half an answer, satisfies me half!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-25-54-commissie-ic129x.u22	That is a lot for Mr Van Hees. Half satisfied is actually 8 out of 10.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-25-54-commissie-ic129x.u23	Mr President, Minister, in November 2011, the European Commission transmitted to the European Parliament and the Council of the Union a communication on Union policies and volunteering, aimed at recognising and valuing cross-border volunteering activities in the Union. The Communication included the following recommendation: "Member States should remove the last direct or indirect obstacles to volunteering in general and cross-border volunteering in particular". A little later, in December 2011, the Commission adopted another communication on the future of VAT, entitled "Towards a simpler, more robust and more efficient VAT system adapted to the single market". On the subject of non-profit organisations, the Commission said: "The VAT treatment of non-profit organisations has given rise to many reactions. However, these organisations already benefit from an exemption that covers their public interest activities. Their other activities, which are not covered by this exemption, are the only concern. However, these activities could be covered by the general exemption scheme for small enterprises with a turnover below a certain threshold and through other simplification measures and procedures that Member States can introduce. Member States may also set up targeted clearing mechanisms, outside the VAT system, to reduce the cost of VAT due on the acquisitions of these organisations." Minister, these are the questions I would like to ask you. Is it your intention to subject youth organisations to VAT? If so, do you intend to set up targeted compensation mechanisms outside the VAT system? Finally, do you consider that this measure is likely to remove the last direct or indirect obstacles to volunteering in general and cross-border volunteering in particular?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-25-54-commissie-ic129x.u24	Mr Dispa, the institutions whose main task is to ensure the supervision, maintenance, education and leisure of young people are exempt from VAT. For example, in the context of a Scout Camp, the exemption extends to supplies in the Scout Camp's canteen, food and beverages to be consumed on site, as well as to sales of chocolates and treats to participants. On the other hand, the exemption does not apply to the provision of services and supplies of goods that youth organizations provide to third parties, such as the sale of food and beverages in a cafeteria or a small restaurant open to the public. No compensation mechanism is provided for or otherwise envisaged to compensate for the fact that exempted organisations cannot benefit from the right to deduct the tax.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-25-54-commissie-ic129x.u25	Minister, thank you for getting into the details of the regulations. This shows that it is a bit complex and perhaps objectively difficult to understand. The delivery of services or goods to members of the youth organisation is not subject to VAT. On the other hand, in the case of supplies to third parties, VAT applies, whereas finally the objective is generally the same. Would it not be appropriate, however, to question a form of compensation which could thus encourage voluntary work in these youth organisations? This is an important sector, to which we must pay attention, because there is a form of citizenship education that deserves to be encouraged.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-25-54-commissie-ic129x.u26	Questions Nos 3153 and 3163 by Mrs Kattrin Jadin were postponed. Question No 3204 by Mr Benoît Hellings is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-25-54-commissie-ic129x.u27	Minister, this question is about the state of affairs in an important tax investigation. In February 2013, an investigation was launched into the transfer pricing used by Suez and Electrabel. On the basis of that research, a report by the energy regulator CREG reveals that Suez had charged at least half a billion euros too much for gas in its Belgian daughter Electrabel in 2012. According to the CREG, both Belgian tax authorities and Belgian municipalities have been severely disadvantaged, because of course no taxes have been paid. In the meantime, what's the status of the BBI's investigation? Has a notice of amendment already been sent to the company concerned?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-25-54-commissie-ic129x.u28	Mr Vanvelthoven, the answer may not surprise you, but the professional secrecy of individual cases really does not allow me to provide more specific information on the investigation that is currently under way.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-25-54-commissie-ic129x.u29	Minister, that is a difficult answer, we have discussed this once again, I think even in the presence of Mr Philipsen of the BBI. It is important that public opinion is regularly informed about the major issues that have been dealt with in the media. I therefore call on you, Minister, to consider whether information can come out on the basis of the state of the investigation. Such dossiers shock citizens' confidence in the public administration and raise the question of whether everyone still pays taxes in a fair way. If it is properly handled by the BBI, and that is what I am going to do, and results are being achieved, then it is good that public opinion is informed. Even if the dossier has not yet been fully completed, it can be said that the dossier is being examined and that certain steps have been taken. I would like to appeal to you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-25-54-commissie-ic129x.u30	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Lalieux's 3264 is deleted.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-25-54-commissie-ic129x.u31	Mr Minister, I have tabled this question in order to obtain a state of affairs. I think it's going to be important days. Every day is important, but as time progresses, it becomes even more important. There has been a European summit with the meeting between Merkel and Tsipras. There was an expiry date of 8 April. Greece must pay EUR 467 million to the IMF. They have EUR 2 billion in short-term loans that expire. It is clear that the need for payment is increasing. We read in the press that the Greeks are prepared to carry out structural reforms. The question is what is meant by a structural reform. What is the position of the Eurogroup on the whole situation? What is Belgium's attitude? I think you've explained our attitude a few times. We are all in favour of this. How do you see the next few days, in which that file will have to go through buttons?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-25-54-commissie-ic129x.u32	It is indeed a story that every day gets a new extension and a new sequel. I believe that in Germany, during the discussion between Mrs Merkel and Mr Tsipras, there was once again a clear statement of the position. In the context of the fifth review of Greece's programme, additional resources may be made available in so far as that fifth review by the three institutions is previously known as the "troika'. The indications in this respect are very important for the European Central Bank, so that it, within its statutory powers, may be able to provide additional liquidity for Greece. My personal feeling is that the Greek Government is now really beginning to find itself at a point where the reality is what it is and where the principles can no longer be negotiated. This is about the essence of monetary union and the structurally sound continuation of that monetary union. I believe that everyone involved shows a great willingness to act quickly if Greece fits into the framework of monetary union. In this way, Greece can also be kept on board. However, the ball is very clearly in the Greek government's camp, which will have to come to terms with reforms, structural interventions, tax collection, economic organisation, public sector organisation and so on. There is unanimity in the Eurogroup, but certainly also in the government. The sooner we can get sound verifiable information on this from the Greek Government, the sooner we can take action to help alleviate the very high financial need. However, there is a very large unanimity in the Eurogroup of Finance Ministers on this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-25-54-commissie-ic129x.u33	Mr President, Minister, on Tuesday, March 17, 2015, our committee had the opportunity to hear from Mr Philipsen, the administrator in charge of combating tax fraud at the Special Tax Inspectorate. We were many to question him about his expectations of the government or parliament. Its priority was the need for a uniform code of tax procedure, valid regardless of the type of tax or tax. For example, he pointed to regulatory differences between the right of access depending on whether it depends on the VAT Code or the Income Tax Code. Minister, I would like to share this subject with you. Do you intend to open this building? Do you intend to move towards this uniformity of tax procedures? If so, can you set targets in terms of timing? I am just opening the debate, which is very broad. I would like to have your reaction to that expectation, which seemed very strong.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-25-54-commissie-ic129x.u34	Mr Dispa, I take the liberty of reading the passage of the government agreement which resumes this standardization of tax procedures. I think it's pretty important. The government agreement states: "Tax procedures will be harmonised in order to preserve the legal certainty of the taxpayer. In this regard, the longest time frames will not automatically be used, but a necessary balance will be sought between the interests of the tax administration and the interests of the taxpayer. The new harmonised procedure will be adapted to the new approach to administration – digital and targeted to target audiences rather than tax types. It will be conceived on the basis of the philosophy of voluntary cooperation of the taxpayer. In this context, the new procedure will focus on maximum consultation and effective settlement of the dispute in the pre-taxation phase, and the correction and claim procedures relating to income taxes will, where possible, be integrated, without prejudice to the rights of the taxpayer's defence. Particular attention will be paid to strengthening mutual trust between taxpayers and the tax administration, in particular control services." Mr Dispa, achieving this harmonisation of existing procedures is – after five months, I am really convinced – a colossal task that will inevitably take a great deal of time. Therefore, even if the realization of this ambition is begun during this parliamentary term, giving you a timetable seems to me difficult, since this work will certainly be carried out over several years.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-25-54-commissie-ic129x.u35	Minister, I fully agree that this is a very ambitious task. However, you must not lack ambition. I understand that you are not locked in a schedule, but you would do a useful job, both for the tax administrations that depend on your authority and for all taxpayers, trying to complete this project as far as possible. Clearly, this was one of the strongest expectations on the part of the ISI's senior official. Whatever the difficulties, you and the government would be well advised to carry this issue with their arms to bring it to a successful conclusion. It would really be a great operation if, in the run-up to the legislature, you could take up this challenge. I would be the first to congratulate you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-25-54-commissie-ic129x.u36	Questions Nos 3295, 3296 and 3297 by Mr Vercamer Mr Crusnière's 3303 were converted into written questions. That is also the case for Question No 5, by Mr De Gucht, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the The next item is Questions Nos 3311 and 3312 by Mr Gilkinet. Since he is not present, those questions will be removed and our sitting will be closed.
