ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic071x.u1	Minister, the coalition agreement agreed that the motivated time loan would be extended by 12 months for the care of children up to eight years and for the palliative care of severely ill or disabled family members. That was an alternative to the unmotivated time credit that many employees took, not to make a world trip, but to provide sick family members or children. The former unmotivated time loan could be spread over five years, while the additional year cannot be spread. Those who wish to make maximum use of their rights can no longer opt for part-time leave and part-time work in order to remain connected with the labour market. That was possible with the unmotivated credit before. Can you confirm, Minister, that there is indeed no possibility of spreading the twelve months of motivated time credits in a part-time arrangement over several years? Or are there still possibilities, possibly after consultation with the social partners? We can expect employees to change their behaviour by taking up the additional year more frequently motivated time credit full-time. The disadvantage of this is that people lose touch with the workplace, especially if they have previously exhausted the possibility of a three-year full-time loan. Then four years away from the labour market. Is this really compatible with the objectives that we all set out, namely to keep workers longer in employment and to combine work and family life better? If we want to encourage workers to work longer, we need to allow for more flexibility. In my view, a form of flexibility also lies in taking that kind of leave, especially if it means that workers stay longer at work. Is there room for a change in the way in which the extra-motivated time loan is to be used and distributed, of course in full consultation with the social partners? Will an evaluation be made of the adjustment of the time-credit? If so, when will that happen? Are there any changes possible?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic071x.u2	Mrs Lanjri, the period of interruption benefits for a motived time loan can never exceed 48 months. We've talked about that in the past. The 48-month period shall not be taken into account proportionally for inclusion in a part-time formula. In other words, the duration of 48 months is the same regardless of form, full-time, half-time or a fifth. Mr Lanjri, I know you regret that, but that is the decision that has been taken within the government so far. The motivated time loan may be spread over a period of 48 months or four years. Workers can therefore take up the most appropriate form of time credit with the motive of care, depending on the care situation in which they find themselves. In addition to the general system of time credit with motive, the government is committed to maintaining existing thematic leave such as parental leave, medical leave and palliative leave. If the credit for a time loan with the motive is exhausted, one can still switch to a thematic leave or vice versa. In future, the social partners, which will be reconvened, will have to negotiate, or at any other time, a possible adjustment of collective agreement No. 103 with regard to the time-credit. It will certainly be interesting to follow up on the discussion in the Group of Ten and to take note of the outcome, particularly as regards whether or not a payment of the RVA is granted in the event of such a time loan. This is the situation today. We await the outcome of the negotiations.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic071x.u3	I really think it is appropriate that we, and above all the social partners, should reflect on the form of the time-credit. We all intend to keep workers longer at work and to improve the combination of work and family life. If, in the long term, employees take up full-time time credit, because flexible arrangements are not allowed in this respect, we are further away. The arrangements also do not always make sense. One doesn't always understand: parental leave can be more flexible for a fifth, allowing it to be spread over time; time credits cannot do that. Parental leave can be taken for the care of children up to 12 years old, time credit for the care of children up to 8 years old. I therefore think it would be wise to adapt the time-credit scheme in order to contribute to all of our objectives, namely to maintain our social security systems and to keep workers longer at work, by allowing them to withdraw part-time from the labour market rather than full-time. I hope that you will be able to inform the social partners that they are making a proposal on this. Then there can be an amendment of the law.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic071x.u4	Minister, the Royal Decree of 30 December 2014 amends Article 36 of the unemployment decision. According to that Royal Decree, the young worker who did not reach the age of 21 at the time of the application for benefit must prove that he is either in possession of a higher secondary education diploma or has completed an alternance training course in its entirety and successfully, or must produce a Community certificate establishing equivalence with the secondary education diploma. In summary, this new decision provides that those who are under 21 and who have not completed secondary education cannot claim an integration allowance, the so-called former waiting allowance. This scheme shall enter into force on 1 September 2015. The question arises as to whether young people who are today in the second year of the second degree or in a system of alternance learning and who will no longer be subject to school education at the end of this school year and who may or may not leave school will still be eligible. Recent research shows that these young people are most likely not to study further. In the media, Mrs Crevits, Flemish Minister for Education, says that certificates from the BSO and BuSO and the system of dual learning would be sufficient. This seems to contradict the wording of the Royal Decree. Mr Minister, can you clarify these young people who may or may not leave school in six months' time? What certificates, to which the Flemish Minister for Education refers, fit within the recently published KB?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic071x.u5	With regard to the question of the eligibility allowance for non-qualified persons, Mrs Kitir, the figures are relevant for the continuation of the debate. We gave you the numbers. If you have not yet received them, we certainly want to deliver them again to you and to this committee. First of all, the benefits in question in general are a concern. The latest figures were 16 000 people. I think we'll get a full view of it by the end of February. The RVA has made every effort to inform those people and to see how OCMWFs can prepare themselves for this. This morning, we discussed in the Consultative Committee how, if we have a significant recourse to these OMCWs, we will continue to make a financial contribution to this. It is colleague Willy Borsus who has the OCMW's under his authority. However, the figures also show that 9.7% of the total population losing this benefit is under 25 years of age. Then there is a fairly big difference between Wallonia, Brussels and Flanders. In Flanders this is an even lower percentage. The large group is situated above the age of 30. Unfortunately, there are still elderly people who enjoy it. So, if you are talking about benefits, you should open the debate with these figures in mind. I went to Mons this week, too. In Wallonia, this is a huge problem. In Flanders we speak of some 3 500 people, in Brussels about about the same number, but in Wallonia there are 13 000 people who are endorsed here. So I understand very well that this dossier is being handled in a sensitive way in Wallonia. I understand that very well, but combining integration benefits with young people is therefore not entirely correct on the basis of the figures. Secondly, an integration allowance can only be granted to young people under the age of 21 if they have a diploma or certificate. A meeting with the community ministers Crevits and Milquet will take place at 16:00 this Friday at my request to agree, hopefully jointly, on the implementation of the royal decree. The Royal Decree expressly states that we ask the Communities for elements equivalent to a diploma or certificate. I hope that I will get proposals from both, preferably the same ones, and then we will take them and implement them in the royal decree, so that it is not only about secondary education and about alternance work and learning what is very important in itself, but that we in the French-speaking and Flemish Community also know which other competences, certificates and certificates are all eligible. On Friday, I hope to be clear about this from both excellences. You also know that the measure does not apply until 1 September 2015. The additional measures are therefore not at present endorsed by anyone. It is, moreover, a measure taken by the previous government, which concerns us to some extent and which we are now monitoring carefully. In doing so, we will examine whether there are any additional problems. At the end of the year, the RVA also made a lot of efforts to inform everyone. Yesterday I spoke with the RVA and I asked for a new state of affairs as soon as possible. I have been promised that this will certainly be possible by the end of February.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic071x.u6	Minister, I did not receive the figures to which you refer at the beginning of your reply. It would be useful for these data to be sent to the committee after the meeting so that we can discuss the correct figures. This will at least facilitate the discussion. Today I asked specifically about the group of young people endorsed by the new measure on the diploma requirement of the current government. My concern goes to them. We have had this discussion here several times. It must be acknowledged that there is a group of people who will not graduate because they are tired of school, but we must accompany that group in a course. We must not leave them to their fate. That was my question. I look forward to the answer and I will ask you about it again later. In any case, I hope that you will take that concern with you to Friday's meeting.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic071x.u7	Mr President, Minister, I have one more question about the social Maribel. The Royal Decree of 22 May 2014 amending the Royal Decree of 18 July 2002 laying down measures to promote employment in the non-profit sector, which is to enter into force, increases the social Maribel contribution by EUR 13.92 from 1 January 2015, by EUR 27.84 from 1 January 2017 and by EUR 41.76 from 1 January 2019. Unless I am mistaken, the decision determining the resources made available per fund and on the basis of which these funds allocate funds to employers for additional employment has not yet been published. However, this is urgent, as a number of employers from the non-profit sector have provided for additional employment on the basis of the aforementioned Royal Decree. Can you tell me when the donation decision will be published?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic071x.u8	Mr President, Mr Kitir, the increase in the employer's contribution of EUR 13.92 per employee and per quarter, scheduled for 1 January 2015, will be postponed to 1 January 2016. This will save 30 million euros. The increase planned for 2017 will then be brought forward to 2016. This applies to all reductions in charges included in the Competitiveness Pact. These shifts follow the same timetable as for the additional reductions in charges for the rest of the private sector. You know that I, together with the social partners in the non-profit sector, have examined the possibility of achieving this from 2015. For the record, this was also included by the previous government in the 450 million that was shifted to 2016. The other one moved up to 2016. I will spare you the details of the discussion within the government, but we have agreed that, if there were budgetary room, this could be put back on the table in the context of the budgetary conclave. I'll definitely do that with colleague De Block. One of the arguments was that these means could create an additional employment of 700 jobs. Another argument was that we had to wait and see what the social dialogue in the private sector was producing, which is currently under way in the Group of Ten. Secondly, during the budgetary conclave, we could look into the possibility of releasing 30 million somewhere. The draft decision laying down this shift for the social Maribel was adopted by the Council of Ministers on 23 December 2014. The draft has been submitted to the National Labour Council for an opinion and should then be submitted to the Council of State. Once this amending act has been published, the Social Maribel decision can also be published. Pending this, the Social Maribel Funds will be allocated the same funds as last year. If I am not mistaken, there will be a contact between the social partners of the non-profit sector and my colleague, Minister De Block, on 3 February 2015. Moreover, one of the first issues in the social dialogue that both employers and employees had unanimously argued for was to implement this in 2015. It was moved by the government to the Budget Conclave in March 2015.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic071x.u9	Minister, I regret the government's decision to postpone this. A number of employers have already carried out additional employment, taking into account the fact that these increases would occur. You're losing another chance. I have said it before: the water will not be on the lips of many people in 2017, but in 2016. I don't see any support and guidance for new jobs and new employment. I deeply regret that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic071x.u10	I'd like to respond to that. We are going to see what the budgetary conclave brings. The EUR 30 million must come from somewhere. In 2016 we do double. Then I hope that 1 400 jobs can be created. I would be very grateful if you could tell me where I can find EUR 30 million. I hope you also understand that we are taking our budget into account. First of all, let us keep the social dialogue private in the Group of Ten. Assuming that there is room and that we can find the amount, we can decide in March and then no heavy jars have been broken. I would like to say two or even three words.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic071x.u11	Minister, you mentioned briefly in the answer to a previous question that social dialogue is in progress. We, as representatives of the people, also read this in the newspapers. Apparently today it's all or nothing for social consultation. We know they've met several times. Today they were supposed to continue until the finish line. I also read about options that are on the table but on which there is still no consensus. I also read that achieving a social agreement will determine social peace in this country. The latter sounds a bit like blackmail to me. The government has asked for an opinion on three very important areas within your competence: the welfare envelope, the career path and wage formation. During the Christmas holidays, some advice was put forward that you liked. It was about the bridge pension. I'm not in the same position. I believe that the agreements reached on early retirement will never achieve an activity rate of 73 per cent. At the end of the journey, we will charge you for the number of people who work effectively and for the entire debate on the end of the career. The coalition agreement also refers to a tripartite meeting. Have you joined us at the table in the last few days? What's the status? I read that the social partners will not visit you until Friday, whether with advice or not. I do not believe that this is about a social agreement, but about an opinion they will give on these three areas. What's the status? Have you been sitting at the table for the past few days?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic071x.u12	Mr Minister, the social partners are trying to reach an agreement. On the basis of the road map submitted by the Government on 15 January, the social partners must conclude new agreements independently, in particular with regard to wage developments. We know that this is one of the most difficult focal points to address. In this regard, the road map is not clear. Indeed, the social partners differ in their interpretations of their autonomy. However, to enable them to reach an agreement, it is important for them to be aware of their real scope for negotiation, particularly with regard to the question of the government's announced index jump. For some, it is possible; for others, no. What does the government think? Indeed, as was almost always the case in our social history, without a boost from public authority, it is difficult to reach agreements. It is all the more important, given the current economic context of distrust, to release the bridle. What signal has the government given or can it give? What is the government's position on the ability of the social partners to challenge the index jump in their discussions on wage developments? If they come back with a proposal, will you listen to them? Is the government ready to ratify a possible agreement between the social partners on wages, which would go back to the index jump it included in the government agreement? On the basis of the latest assessments and comparisons with neighbouring countries drawn up by the Central Economic Council in this area, is the Government considering any initiative to question this index jump?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic071x.u13	I thought this day would never happen, but being the oldest in this committee, I am acting as President.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic071x.u14	(...) Soon the Group of Ten will meet. I'm not there. I wasn't there at the last meetings either. There has been no tripartite consultations, except for 15 January 2015. On 15 January, we discussed with all the social partners who are members of the Group of Ten. I would like to provide you with an account of these discussions. For the others, we brought it with us, so that everyone has the same information. You can see that a distinction has been made. The first point concerns autonomous social consultation within the Group of Ten; the second, how to strengthen employment, purchasing power, etc.; the third, the National Pensions Committee. Point 4 concerns social stability and social peace and point 5 deals with the new meeting with the government. This is scheduled for Friday at 9:00 a.m. With this, you have all the information. There is no need for me to read the document to you because you already know the content of it. In reply to Mr Gilkinet, I shall nevertheless take up the content of point 1.1. on wage developments. We have made it clear that this is based on the report of the Central Economic Council. You know this one includes an index jump in February 2015. In addition, I make it clear that the government does not intend to reconsider the government agreement. The social partners, for their part, undertook to try to reach an agreement on the wage margin on 31 January. What the government will do in a given case is therefore a hypothetical question at this stage. That's hypothetical right now. I trust that the Group of Ten will reach an agreement today or one of the following days. In order to establish the wage standard, there is even until 23 February to reach an agreement. Mr Demir, you must be aware that the finality of what we have registered in the coalition agreement can never be called into question unless all the majority parties agree. Perhaps we differ on the way in which that point B is reached. One can take the motorway, a winding road or a bison futé, but the most important thing in social dialogue is to leave the social partners the opportunity to choose the way to get there. That is what we have done with the RBs on runways, SWT and so on. In my humble opinion, they will be proposing to confront or play powerplay for that, sooner or later, because social peace is very important. I have visited a lot of companies, including in Antwerp, and there is one important element for them: stability, social peace, security for production, security for no strikes and so on. This is a matter of great importance. I hope that both workers and employers will never lose sight of this, nor do politicians. After all, they will be the first to be addressed by companies to please ensure that social peace is achieved. I hope that the Group of Ten will reach an agreement, whether tonight or Friday. For me, it is more important to encourage the social partners to find a solution between them.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic071x.u15	Madam President, Minister, of course I also hope that the social partners will give an opinion in the general interest, in view of a number of needs that this country has. You're clearly walking the winding path. You choose to do so. More important is the result. You also say that one day we will pay the bill for this. However, I would like to remind you that you have already paid the bill for the bridge pensions. Ages have risen in contrast to the provisions of the coalition agreement. This has an extra cost and, apart from that, it will of course also have an impact on the whole discussion about longer working hours and the end-of-life career. You're already paying the bill, and I hope you're aware of that. As far as social peace and strikes are concerned, of course we also want social peace and I understand the concerns. However, the question is whether this will buy social peace. That's a much more important question. If they come to a unanimous opinion, and I hope so, then the question is: are all the social partners going to include this social peace? That is a very essential question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic071x.u16	Mr Minister, you recall that the government agreement includes an index jump on which you do not intend to return, but you also say that the social partners, in accordance with the road map which has been given to them, have the choice of the path they consider most appropriate to reach a balanced agreement. You refer to the report of the Central Economic Council which identifies margins for wage improvement, whether through the application of the index or through a global wage agreement. For me, the report of the Central Economic Council does not exclude a pure and simple application of the law and the application of automatic wage indexation. I would like to reiterate to the government and colleagues in the majority that an increase in wages or an improvement in social conditions in parallel with the very difficult measures you have announced is not the enemy of the economy. On the contrary, it is likely to contribute to social peace which is necessary for the proper functioning of the economy but also to reassure the citizens, who are also consumers who make the economy run. All the austerity measures you have decided have a very negative impact on the functioning of the economy and on consumer confidence. I think the government as a whole underestimates this element in the choices it has made so far. If you had given a clearer signal about the ability of the social partners to come back to the index jump, I think you would have done a useful job of facilitating the ongoing negotiations.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic071x.u17	Mrs Demir, it is probably possible that an agreement will be reached in the Group of Ten. The question then arises as to what we are doing with this agreement. It's not advice. It is an agreement between the social partners. I do not want to anticipate that. I do not know all the details and I repeat that I am not a member of the Group of Ten, but I hope that we will find a solution within the stipulated framework. There is an agreement among the social partners. There must be differences. We have been in this social dialogue for many years. I insist that the strength of economic and social reform is greatly increased when it is done in consultation and hopefully with the agreement of the social partners. Some people don't feel the same way. That is their right, but that is the way in which I try to further encourage the social partners. Thank God for the first time in a long time that the Group of Ten has already had several meetings and reached an agreement at the end of last year. If the government has the necessary wisdom and vision with regard to social reform and if it wants to honour an agreement, it has a certain cost, as you say, but that price is not comparable to a situation of powerplay, where one cannot continue to work in consultation with the social partners. Everyone agrees with that in the federal government. I hope this stays the same.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic071x.u18	Mr President, if there is an agreement in the Group of Ten, will you comply with it anyway, even if it departs from what was agreed in the coalition agreement?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic071x.u19	They conclude an agreement and we can then see whether or not we can honour that agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic071x.u20	For my group, it is very important that the agreement of the social partners is in line with the government agreement, for example with regard to the distribution of wealth. I think there's a very good conscience about what to do with that money. If the social partners deviate from this, the question naturally arises as to whether the government agrees. For us, it is essential that this is in accordance with the coalition agreement. That way I can also conclude social agreements, year after year, and forward the bill to the community. Eventually, the community pays. I wonder whether the measures taken there really serve the public interest.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic071x.u21	Madam President, in this internal majority debate, I will be closer to the opinion of the minister than to that of Mrs Demir. The previous agreements between the social partners have in fact often been the subject of a small boost from the government. The idea of honouring an agreement, which in any case will be balanced, since there are responsible partners who are discussing it, is not a scandal, on the contrary. I would like the government to go further, accept the idea, as long as there is an agreement between the social partners, of calling into question the index jump or even issuing an envelope so that this agreement can be more easily concluded, because there is every advantage, as I said: wage improvements, social improvements, social peace are good for our economy.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic071x.u22	The different points of view were thus expressed. The government will act when the time comes. We'll come back to the subject later, I'm sure.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic071x.u23	Minister, you mentioned agreements and agreements just now. On the eve of the national strike in December, you referred to the gentlemen's agreement at a question put by Mr Lachaert in plenary. This has been signed by the main workers' and employers' organisations. It is very important because it sets out social dialogue and stresses the need to avoid legal procedures. The agreement also calls for the right to work through the recommendation to ensure the safeguarding of the working tool. You even quoted the agreement that was reached with very important people at the time. You also said at the time that you hoped that these principles would not be violated during the national strike in December. Unfortunately, however, the opposite has proved to be true. There are several business areas, even at seaports, made inaccessible by strikers. Store owners were even forced manu militari to close their business. The court has repeatedly pointed out that this is prohibited. The Court of First Instance of Leuven stated in 2005: "It is prohibited for any person to physically impede, prevent or make impossible, directly or indirectly, the free access to the premises of the applicants, in any way whatsoever, and to do so by penalty of a penalty payment.' Minister, this is not about the right to strike. This is of fundamental importance, and of course we respect it. However, if you are referring to the great will of industry to be able to produce and work, then it is important that this is made possible. I have a few specific questions. The gentlemen's agreement has been effectively broken. What is your opinion on this? What is the government going to do to act on non-legislative acts such as making business areas inaccessible? It appears that a social agreement has been reached which is not respected by one of the partners who concluded the agreement. Should there be a law to lay down the most important rights, both those of the strikers and the right to work?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic071x.u24	Mr Klaps, we have already discussed this, as you say, in response to a question from Mr Lachaert. I remember when Mr Jambon said that we would follow up on this. From his jurisdiction for Home Affairs and Police, he would look at how and what. It is, of course, a very delicate matter because no one disputes the right to strike. That is also internationally formulated. The question is whether we should repeat the whole debate on the exact content of the right of strike. I also said in plenary that there is also the right to work. In addition, there is the whole problem of access to business areas and so on, which has more to do with freedom of association and assembly, public order and so on. There are therefore many aspects to this. I have here a very interesting document, the gentlemen's agreement. In this context, my predecessor asked a question to the NAR earlier to see whether the gentlemen's agreement should not be revised or further implemented on a number of points. I hope that the social partners now have an agreement on the matter we have just discussed. When an agreement is concluded, there is always a clause on social peace at the end. It won't be any different now. I also assume that the interpretation of this social peace also refers to the gentlemen's agreement and that this gentlemen's agreement can be discussed again, if we continue in this direction. I am therefore very much in favour of the social partners sticking to the gentlemen's agreement, giving it a further clarification and sticking to it. I also see that it is not easy to enforce legal provisions if they are not acted upon. That's anything but obvious. In conclusion, I also regret that during the last wave of strikes a number of things have happened that differ from the gentlemen's agreement. I hope, together with you, that the social partners, the Group of Ten, can reach agreements, that social peace is part of this and that we can also continue to refine and enforce the gentlemen's agreement that was agreed at that time. If that is not the case, then I think we should look at the situation again. As with the previous: anyone who thinks that the problem can be solved with the heavy means, I am afraid to play powerplay again that leads nowhere. Let us hope that, through consultation and agreements that are respected, social peace returns and that certain actions can be avoided in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic071x.u25	Madam President, Minister, I would like to, and we all hope that agreements will be respected. Only, in practice, it is repeatedly shown that this is not the case. Pacta sunt servanda is said to be, but if that doesn't happen, we'll have to come up with something else. Either it is difficult and they do not go through with it because they are in full negotiation: powerplay would only make things more difficult. In other words, there is no need, because there is currently social peace. Until that social peace stops at some point and then there is nothing to prevent a repetition of this breach of the agreement. I continue to regret that the trade unions continue to apply these practices which cost our economy a great deal of money and I hope that we can move towards a more fundamental solution.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic071x.u26	Minister, on 4 December, just before the holidays, the Nexans cable works in Marcinelle announced their intention to dismiss 21% of the staff, i.e. to remove 67 jobs, including 48 workers and 19 employees and managers. Indeed, the group announces that it is experiencing difficulties in a very competitive market. Its profitability is no longer available at all production sites. All sites in Europe have been screened. Nexans, as you know, occupies three companies in the Hainaut: Opticable in Mons, the cables of Dour and those of Charleroi. Although the Nexans plant in Marcinelle does not record any losses, its level of competitiveness has, according to its managers, deteriorated sharply. This plant specializes in the manufacture of very high voltage underground cables. It implements complex industrial processes that require exceptional quality. Unfortunately, she suffered several incidents. Cables broke and all this impacted on his results. The company's intention is therefore to dismiss 67 people. It does not wish to redundancies. By using pre-pensions at 53 and a half years of age, the company could rule out 41 of the 48 workers it considered surplus. For this, as you know, it obviously needs to be recognised as a restructuring company, which normally falls within your competence. My questions are simple: Is this file on the agenda in your department? Do you plan to review it in an emergency? Will this company be able to use the pre-pension system for its workers? I assume that we intend to limit the use of early retirement, especially since we intend to delay the pension age. What position does the government intend to adopt with regard to Nexans' request to be able to use pre-pension at 53 and a half years? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic071x.u27	Dear colleague, Nexans in Charleroi announced on 4 December a collective dismissal providing for the dismissal of 67 out of 318 workers. The company has submitted to my administration the collective redundancies announcement form as well as the document submitted at the extraordinary works council held on December 4, 2014. At this stage, the procedure for informing and consulting workers is still under way because we have not received any information concerning any notification of collective redundancies. No request has been received for the application of an unemployment scheme with an additional business. No files have yet been drawn up with my administration. Since this company announced a collective redundancies in 2014, it still falls within the scope of the old rules on the supplementary business unemployment scheme and not within the scope of the Royal Decree of 30 December 2014, which amends that of 3 May 2007 laying down the supplementary business unemployment scheme. It will therefore be possible to apply an unemployment scheme with an enterprise supplement above the age of 55, if the undertaking so requests and meets the legal requirements. It is not for me to put this issue on the agenda. The application must be made by the company which must form its file, including the restructuring plan, etc.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic071x.u28	Minister, thank you for this clarification, especially that the company has not yet applied to your department. That's what she told the labour forces. I know what I have to tell them.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic071x.u29	Minister, my question was put before the current. I did not have any information before. I have already heard a series of answers to the previous question. Nevertheless, I think it is wise to ask you about these specific points. According to the Plan Bureau's latest estimates, the annual inflation rate is expected to be zero in Belgium in 2015, compared to 0.34% in 2014 and 1.11% in 2013. Since inflation is zero, the index will not be crossed. As a result, there would simply not be an index jump in 2015, if this forecast were to be verified. However, the government had planned a "well-being" envelope of €127 million in order to correct this index jump socially. Minister, can other sources confirm the estimates provided by the Planning Office? What will become of the government's "well-being" envelope? What will this money be allocated to? In view of the questions raised earlier, I would like to say that when reading the document and the meeting of the Kern, we can see that the figures are different from those known at the time and that the social partners are proposing. In addition, they are a step in the implementation of the government agreement. The balance of this formulation leaves room for interpretation. I would have liked an answer on what will be undertaken in relation to this envelope.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic071x.u30	Minister, an amount of EUR 127 million is foreseen in the 2015 budget for "social support for index jump". In the meantime, it appears that, given very low inflation, there will be no automatic wage indexation and therefore no index jump this year. Nevertheless, the social needs are enormous and other measures have already been decided upon and implemented, affecting very severely the beneficiaries, such as the non-indexing of pensioners' tax cuts or more targeted but even more painful measures. I am thinking of the increase in unemployment for part-time workers, which will more specifically affect a large number of women, especially single women with children. Minister, what will happen to the €127 million envelope following the absence of index jumps in 2015? Can it be used for other social purposes? Has the government given up the index jump or will it take place at the next overrun of the index-pivot, probably in 2016? If so, can you guarantee me the minimum allocation, when preparing the 2016 budget, of the same envelope to compensatory measures? Moreover, the latter will only be partially so if the amount is not higher than that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic071x.u31	Mr Minister, the government agreement does not call into question automatic wage indexation. The mechanism may be reformed. The index jump, together with two other measures, was intended to remedy labour costs handicap. Some were very pleased with the CRB report, as if the problem had already been solved. Let us nevertheless concentrate on Eurostat's figures, which clearly states that in 2014 everything remained within control, but that labour costs disability remains between 14% and 23%. When does the index jump go in? When do you plan to lay the legal basis for the index jump laid down in the coalition agreement? That indeed requires a legal basis. More importantly, what action will you take to prevent the social partners from destroying the impact of the index jump in IPA?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic071x.u32	The questions are in line with the previous ones. Let me put the index mechanisms in Belgium. The indexing of social benefits and wage and wage rates in public services is based not on the health index itself but on the flattened health index. That's the average of the health index over four months. The indexing takes place only when that figure exceeds a certain value, the so-called pivot index. The wager and wager will then be increased by 2 %. Social benefits are automatically indexed one month after exceeding the central index. Betting and wages in the public sector are indexed one month later. In the private sector, the time at which wages are indexed is determined after negotiation by collective agreements. There are several systems: either indexing is based on a central index or indexing is done at fixed times, for example every three months or once a year. There is also a mixed system. Betting and wages are indexed at fixed intervals, but only if the central index is exceeded. Finally, there are also all-in systems or balance systems, whereby wage developments, actual wage increases plus indexation, are determined in advance, irrespective of the evolution of the indices. When people say in the media that the central index would not be exceeded, they only talk about indexation systems or the system of betting and wages in public services and social benefits. It is true that that index may not be exceeded this year, but that is a forecast and not a certainty. For the private sector there are other central indices, some of which will be exceeded according to current forecasts, but for the sectors with the periodic index systems, the index gap will reduce any indexation to zero, until 2% is reached. In summary, it is not correct to say that the index jump will have no impact in 2015. There will certainly be an effect on some sectors. For wagers and wages in public services and for social benefits, it will depend on whether or not the prospects of the Federal Planning Office become reality. Mr Gilkinet, the amount of EUR 127 million to compensate for the impact of the index jump is included in the 2015 budget and remains planned. The amount was calculated on a certain impact of the index jump on social benefits and was then decided and recorded. Also, note that for salaries, we have decided to offset index jumps by a tax reduction, i.e. an increase in lump sum professional fees. The effective date is January 1, 2015, although at that time no worker had an index jump. The government will certainly consider how best to use the 127 million euros in budgetary control. During budgetary control, we will also look at how best we adapt them to low wages, what steps can be taken and what elements are involved.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic071x.u33	Minister, thank you for this detailed and very detailed answer. The reality is indeed much more complex than what was presented in the press. I will remain attentive to this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic071x.u34	Mr Minister, I know that the EUR 127 million is included in the budget. I also know that at this stage there has been no budgetary adjustment. So they're still here! The question is whether, during the budgetary adjustment, you will keep them for social purposes. You don't reject this assumption. You say there are probably things to do for the lowest income. I agree entirely with you on this point. Today, very high wage inequalities exist and incomes of social workers are far too low, below the poverty line. This envelope is therefore useful. It can even help to conclude an agreement between the social partners. I strongly encourage you to seek agreement within the government to use this envelope for social corrections. We do not want to see in the next budget adjustment that the government is depriving itself of these useful means from a social point of view.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic071x.u35	Thank you, Minister, for explaining the functioning of the mechanism. I assume everyone here knew that, but apparently you didn't. You did not answer my question. You are Minister of Work, and if I am not mistaken, you must now prepare a royal decision. My question was very specific. Perhaps I have misunderstood your very complex explanation of exactly how the mechanism works, because I have not heard when you will lay the legal basis for the index jump laid down in the coalition agreement. This requires a legal basis. When will you lay that legal foundation?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic071x.u36	As soon as possible. It must be done not by a royal decision, but by a law approved by the committee and by the Chamber. We will soon be discussing this in the federal government. So there's no reason to be concerned right now. I know what falls within my jurisdiction. The index jump is an element of that. We will implement it and introduce a draft law as soon as possible and make it possible for it to be approved with great enthusiasm, I suppose.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic071x.u37	Thank you, I look forward to everything in the coalition agreement being effectively implemented by you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic071x.u38	We left in a mini-debate!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic071x.u39	Mr President, on the contrary, I encourage the minister to take all his time and to weigh the consequences of the act he would pose, which is nothing but annoyed. This index jump is not necessary, it would have a much higher cost in terms of social peace than it could bring. It is a bad vision and a bad element of the government agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic071x.u40	Mr President, Minister, on 4 November last I had in our committee the debate on improving the status of children-friendly people. I am not going to dwell again on the problem, but I would like to point out that these workers still claim a social occupational status, that is to say, complementary rights that will bring them more security, more stability and more serenity in the exercise of their profession. As was also pointed out in the discussions, the issue requires consultation among all the federated entities. You then declared – I quote – "to take the initiative, together with the competent colleagues in the federal administration, to enter into consultation with the competent ministers of the regional authorities". You have also stated "the need to extend the consultation to the trade union organisations concerned". A consultation committee meeting between the federal government and the federated entities was held on January 15. Could you give us an update on this case? Has this issue of the status of children's homes been addressed? Is it one of the priority topics for discussion with federated entities? What follow-up will be given? Have you ever brought your colleagues at the federal level together in this regard? On what basis do you intend to work and make concrete progress? What is the agenda for the work? My questions are therefore very precise and practical.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic071x.u41	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, being retained in other committees, I was unable to question you during the general discussions on the status of children's homes. However, we discussed this subject a great deal at the end of the previous legislature, given the intention to grant them a full status. At the same time, in the course of the social affairs hearings, negative consequences of a full status appeared when all the dimensions relating to labour law were taken into account; the risk concerned the net remuneration of these workers. So, in order to give them a full status that serves something in addition to security, it was important to have a consensus on the tax measures to be taken; I will question the Minister of Finance shortly if the agenda permits. As for your competence, my questions are similar to those already asked by my colleague. Has an interdepartmental committee been well held in early January? Was the status of children at home treated at that time? What decisions have been made? What about the consultations with other federal government ministers, primarily the Minister of Finance?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic071x.u42	Ladies and gentlemen, on 4 November last I answered this question in committee, saying that I fully realized the interest of the case. I share your desire to achieve a good solution, taking into account the interests of all parties concerned, all levels of power and the overall financial framework. I believe that we are far from being inactive during the end of the year and that we have implemented much of the government agreement. On that occasion, I also replied that I hoped that we would find a solution to this problem in this Parliament. You will agree with me that the legislature is not yet over! The subject will be discussed in my discussions with regional ministers. On January 30, I will have an interview with Minister Milquet on this subject. Once the dossier is sufficiently mature, I will take the necessary additional measures in consultation with my colleagues, who are also responsible for certain aspects of the dossier.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic071x.u43	Minister, I really regret you giving us so little information. I really wish you'd told me that this is a priority for you. I'm concerned that there's not a word about child-friendly people in your government statement. This gives the impression that it is not a priority for this mandate. This is, however, the case for federated entities. Mrs Milquet was questioned in plenary on 14 January and she said that when she met you, she would say that this was one of the priority issues for the French Community and that budgets were already planned. I would like to anticipate: the budgetary debate should not, above all, ensure that the hot potato is returned to the local authorities. It is really essential that financial neutrality be acquired by the local authorities and that this does not constitute an additional burden for the municipalities. On the other hand, progress on this issue is essential. I will come back to the subject, which I believe is a priority, because the work that these children are doing meets a need for a society that must not be left out. I would remind you that in November you promised me a note on a pilot project in the Flemish Community by Mr Jo Vandeurzen. I'm still waiting for this information.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic071x.u44	Mr. Chief of Staff is responsible if you have not yet received this document.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic071x.u45	I am also interested in this note, Minister, if it enlightens us further! Indeed, this had been discussed at the hearings, but it has been at least two years. The deadline you give, 2019, is worrying, unless the legislature is very short! This is not encouraging and if we do not consider it important to act very quickly on this subject, this subject will drag on, because it presents difficulties at several levels of power and not always obvious budgetary impacts to be estimated. Of course, there had already been an impact, but under the previous legislature and the overall impact on tax revenues was not known. That is why I am going to question the Minister of Finance earlier. But a whole series of measures relating to social law remain to be taken very seriously and to be implemented. You see Mrs. Milquet at the end of the month. I hope that your work schedule will be very specific and that we will not wait five years to implement the measures taken. We will probably interview you again after this interview with Ms. Milquet.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic071x.u46	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make two points. Mrs Winckel, I hope you have read the general note, which states that this subject is a priority for me. Mrs Gerkens, the debate on this issue began in 2008.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic071x.u47	This is everyone's priority because it is a particularly unfair situation vis-à-vis these workers, but we are not moving forward! I know it's complicated, but you really have to work in stages...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic071x.u48	I'll try to find a solution. I have a meeting with Mrs Milquet on January 30th. I will try to find a solution during this legislature, which runs until 2019.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic071x.u49	Mr President, Minister, my question concerns parental leave for the self-employed in the secondary sector. Selfemployed persons who have a main occupation are also entitled to parental leave. Only they have no right to use the modality to record it in a fifth, so one day a week. I would have liked to have heard your views on this. In the previous legislature, your predecessor said that there would be an amendment to that legislation. That didn't happen at the time. What is your position? Will there be an adjustment? If so, when?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic071x.u50	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Lijnen, I think I have already answered that question or a similar question from Mr Clarinval. However, I would certainly like to reply to that again. We are preparing a draft royal decree. This draft has yet to be discussed in an inter-kabinnet working group and submitted to the Council of Ministers for approval. It should provide for the possibility of cumulation of a self-employed activity in an auxiliary occupation with a partial benefit in the context of parental leave. The cumulation shall be permitted in so far as the self-employed activity has been carried out for at least 12 months before the interruption, in order to prevent abuse. Parental leave must be used to take care of the child and, of course, not to start as a self-employed person.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic071x.u51	Thank you for your reply, Minister. Do you have any idea about the timing of the Inter-Kabinette Working Group?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic071x.u52	As soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic071x.u53	Then I hope that as soon as possible it will be very soon.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic071x.u54	Mr President, Minister, I am the spokesman for Mrs Willaert, who is excused for health reasons and who is as concerned as I am about the fate of 1,500 people with disabilities who have been deprived of integration allowances since 1 January 2015. This is the continuation of a dossier that we discussed last Thursday in plenary. In response to my questions and to the questions of two other colleagues, you said that everything in your power would be done to prevent these people from finding themselves without income. You were talking about a solution this week. I am surprised, when the case has been known for three years, that the commitment to find a solution is so late. Better late than never! There is also the question of respect for our consultative bodies. In fact, no one before you or yourself reacted to the repeated opinions of the National High Council of Persons with Disabilities (CNHP), which had pointed out this problem through various opinions, the last of which date from November and December. Minister, come to the content, to the nature of the solution. What is the amount of the allowance that these people can receive? How? Depending on what legal basis? How long? I don't think the problem can be solved in a week, even if I hope so. I also have some doubts about the practical arrangements. Can you reassure us? I would remind you that I am also speaking on behalf of my colleague, Evita Willaert. Minister, can you be more specific about the solution that will be found or that will be found for the 1,500 people involved. What type of allowance will they receive? What will be the amount of this allowance? What will be the difference between the integration allowance and the new allowance? What will be the procedure to be followed for the persons concerned? How soon will they be able to benefit from it? Under what budget will the new allocation be? Will a budgetary adjustment be made to ensure, where appropriate, an allocation to the service concerned? On what legal basis will the new allowance be based? Will a legal amendment be necessary to allow it? Finally, if you have received and read these opinions from the CSNPH, why have they not been taken into account earlier? I must admit that I am quite confused with this situation, since it was explicitly described in the few opinions we had to read.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic071x.u55	Mr President, Mr Gilkinet, you have just pointed out that I transmitted information last Thursday. They had all the numbers. I have here for you a little note taking them back. As far as opinions are concerned, I have already pointed out that we have worked pro-actively. In November of last year, we sent lists to the Directorate-General for Persons with Disabilities. On 19 January, we sent lists to the Directorate to inform it a second time. This means that this Directorate now has all the information necessary for the rapid processing of the files of the persons concerned, which, according to my information, is in progress. We will follow the situation carefully. I am convinced that the problem is, in quotation marks, almost solved. If necessary, I can assure you that I will take further action. As a result of my contacts with the Disability Branch, I am confident that every effort will be made to address this issue. As for the amount, you have to work file by file. We'll find out what each person's income is. I propose that at the beginning of February we provide you with more correct or adequate information on unresolved problems.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic071x.u56	Mr President, Minister, I cannot be satisfied with your institutional response. Services have transmitted lists to other services. You should know that 1,500 people, 1,500 families in fragile situations are, today, in a state of uncertainty since, since 1 January, they are no longer covered by integration allowances. It has been three years since the problem could have been identified. In the absence of such identification, the persons in question are not included in the new system. I intend to interview the Secretary of State for Disability Assistance to find out how this is going. But acknowledge that the situation is somewhat Kafkai, insecure for those concerned, some of whom have testified in the media. What is happening shows that we have legislated without knowing. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, in addition to those 1,500 people, 15,000 or 30,000 others who are not disabled will find themselves in the same situation. Still, in this particular case, advice sent warning signals. It took a media mobilization to get you to react. Today is January 28. When will the persons in question receive an allowance to support themselves? You know that they will not receive an integration allowance because they are excluded from the system and I do not think that with a file-by-file analysis, they will be recognised as disabled this week. A finding of deficiency can therefore be made. I would ask that exceptional measures be taken to clarify that they should not be exceptional since this social problem had been announced. I know that the question no longer falls within your purview, since there is no longer any question of an integration allowance. But what is happening shows how unfair the previous government – and this one – has been with the most fragile. I'm upset about that. I therefore hope that these people will be able to find real security of life as soon as possible, within the framework of the solidarity to be organised with people with disabilities.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic071x.u57	Mr President, Mr Gilkinet, I do not agree at all with your comment. I have already said that in November 2014, i.e. before your media action, the problem was reported. We have tried to find a solution for all concerned. In February, I am convinced that the 1 185 people deprived of the integration allowance will receive a replacement allowance. We'll follow this file closely. Contrary to what you said, we worked quickly and correctly.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic071x.u58	Minister, we will leave this disagreement. The law was passed in December 2011, against our opinion. Before you were here in the Social Affairs Committee, we asked for impact assessments very regularly, we highlighted the difficulties that would arise for people who would not find work within this three-year period. Persons with disabilities have, a fortiori, more difficulty accessing work. You have only been in office since the fall, but your party was in the majority in the previous legislature and it voted on this measure. You're still responsible for business continuity. I would welcome the fact that, as early as February, there is a solution for these people, but you will not stop me from thinking that this issue has been mismanaged and that it is symptomatic of this government's lack of attention, and the precedent, to the most fragile people in our society. I will re-examine Mrs. Sleurs and yourself for the fate of these people.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic071x.u59	Mr President, Minister, the government agreement provides for the adjustment of the unemployment regulations for job seekers who are undergoing training in a so-called "short-term" occupation or who are completing an internship in a company. Therefore, my question is very simple: what is this going to consist of in practice? Does this mean for job seekers who are engaged in training in a job in need that they will no longer be penalized by the ONEM? This could encourage them to work in these professions. It is clear that there is a shortage of labour in many sectors. It seems to me that directing these job seekers towards the jobs in need would be an interesting avenue to explore.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic071x.u60	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, for full-service studies, there is a specific regulation for training courses leading to a shortage of jobs. In order to be able to complete these full-service studies with the maintenance of unemployment benefits and the dispensation of labour market availability, the unemployed person must normally have received unemployment benefits for at least 312 days. This condition is not applicable in the case of studies leading to a diploma that falls within the scope of trades in need. Each year, the Management Committee of the ONEM prepares a list of trades in need. Secondly, when it comes to shiftwork, there is no specific regulation for jobs in short supply. The decision to grant an exemption from labour market availability for such studies is the responsibility of the director of the unemployment office of the ONEM. In its assessment, it can naturally take into account the possible link between the desired training and the occupations in need. Under the Sixth State Reform, the power to grant a labour market availability exemption was transferred to the Regions. Therefore, amending the current rules falls within their exclusive competence.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic071x.u61	Minister, thank you. What, therefore, is the objective of the government agreement in this area, in view of the current situation?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic071x.u62	Is that a supplementary question?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic071x.u63	If I understand correctly, is that an unnecessary sentence in the text of the government agreement?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic071x.u64	It's an early conclusion.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic071x.u65	Mr. Clarinval, you will then question the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic071x.u66	Mr President, there were several people to conclude this agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic071x.u67	J'entends bien.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic071x.u68	Mr Minister, this is a rather technical question about the weekly working hours of servants. The problem was pointed out to me following recent changes in the status of those servants. On 16 June 2011, the International Labour Organisation adopted Convention No. 189 on housework. It states, among other things, that decent work must be provided for those house workers and that similar social protection must also be provided for those house workers. Member States should provide for this. For the sake of this provision, it was necessary to adapt our social security legislation in a number of respects. Pursuant to Article 5 of the Implementing Decision of the RSZ Act, servants were subject to the RSZ only to a limited extent if they resided with the employer or if they worked longer than four hours a day or 24 hours a week. If they did not perform those benefits, they were excluded from the RSZ on the basis of Article 18 of the same decision. For the latter category of servants, a Royal Decree of 21 December 1992 provided for a derogation from the minimum weekly working time of one third. I shall come back to that, because my question is about working hours. As I said, it was necessary to adapt the rules under Convention No. 189 of the ILO. That's what happened. The Royal Decree of 13 July 2014 amended the implementing act of the RSZ Act and subjected the service providers to the RSZ in full. However, there has been a technical defect in it, unless it has been consciously done. The result is that the servants I have used several times the term house workers, but I meant servants now are also excluded from the exception to the minimum duration of work of one third of a full-time work schedule. So one must always offer them the minimum roster of a third, while for some it is about very occasional work. However, they can no longer go below that limit of a third. That's what happened from one day to the next. Considering what I just told you, I have the following questions. First of all, is it a conscious choice for the servants to no longer allow a derogation on the minimum schedule of one third of the weekly working time, or is it rather a forgetfulness in the legislation, which should then be repaired in one way or another? Secondly, do you have any idea how many people are employed by contract of employment for servants? That's an old form of employment. Do you have any idea how many people still work in that statute? Do you have any idea for which tasks and activities they are primarily adopted? Thirdly, do you have any idea how many servants had a derogation from the minimum schedule of a third party prior to the amendment of the law, on the basis of the exclusion that existed at the time? Do you consider that a legislative initiative is necessary in order to make that exception possible again?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic071x.u69	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Lachaert, as you say, it is a technical question, but it is therefore no less important. In the context of the ratification of Convention No. 189 on decent work for domestic staff, adopted by the International Labour Organisation, should be subject to social security since 1 October 2014 non-resident servicemen performing household duties and recruited for private household. As a result, they are no longer covered by the derogation from the minimum working time of the part-time worker, i.e. the rule of a third party laid down in the Royal Decree of 21 December 1992. It is impossible to comment on the number of workers affected by this measure as a result of their non-subjection to social security in the past. However, this number would not be very high, given the size and success of service cheques. It seems important to me to underline that there are other possibilities of derogation to the minimum weekly working time. On the one hand, the Royal Decree of 21 December 1992 also allows, under certain conditions, a derogation from the one-third rule for benefits which have taken place under a contract of employment which provides daily benefits of at least four hours according to a fixed schedule specified in the contract of employment. On the other hand, as provided for in Article 11a of the Law of 3 July 1978 on contracts of employment, a derogation from the one-third rule may be provided for by a collective agreement concluded on the initiative or with the agreement of the joint body. The Joint Committee responsible for the management of buildings and service providers could therefore allow such a derogation. In this context, I will examine to what extent a legislative initiative is necessary to provide for a further derogation from the one-third rule for the servicemen concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic071x.u70	Thank you, Minister, for the expert answer. I think you outlined the problem well. My concern is that there may be a small category of workers who do not work on a fixed timetable and who may not be able to benefit from an exception to the minimum working time per collective agreement. A limited number of employees have now fallen out of the boat because of these changes. I would like to insist that this be clarified. Rather, I have the impression that it is a kind of oblivion, something that has been overlooked by broadening the scope of the RSZ Act. Now a small category has also been excluded from the exception to that one-third grid. I'd take a look at that. It is perhaps only a small category, but I have been told a few cases of people who used to do very occasional work, who had a deviation from that schedule of a third and who were servants; they can no longer do so anymore. That is why I would urge you to look into this and, if necessary, take an initiative in it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic071x.u71	Mr. President, I'm sorry. When you run between commissions, that's what happens. Excuse me. Minister, as part of the adoption plans, I do not know whether you know the adoption leave collective, which has sent an open letter to the entire federal government, and therefore to you as well, asking that adoption leave coincide with the leave granted to biological parents. I'll immediately let you know why we're coming to you. In fact, you may answer us that this is not within your competence. As far as I am concerned, I have already addressed several ministers, and the most recent one, in this case the Minister for Social Affairs, has sent me and my colleague Nahima Lanjri back to you. Before we get to the way we can move forward, let's go back to the bottom. Of course, it is no longer to be demonstrated that adoption leave is important for the integration of the adopted child into his or her new family and for the ties that must be forged between him or her adoptive parents. The development of the bonds of security and affection is essential for the development of the child, and this obviously takes an important time. This period is particularly reduced, and it is even equal to zero when the child is over eight years of age. However, in the case of intercountry adoption, the child who is adopted may be over eight years old on a regular basis. At the budgetary level, since this is still the node and the argument put forward, adoption leave is only a tiny part of the budget which is allocated to maternity leave. This is the reality today, but if we make a projection in order to know what would be the cost of assimilation of adoption leave into maternity leave, based solely on international adoptions, to give you an example, it gives this. For almost 127 000 births per year in Belgium, there are just over 200 intercountry adoptions per year. This assimilation would therefore represent 0.16% of the increase in the budget. A euro is, of course, a euro, but this is a very small amount. It is all the more interesting to look at this subject, including its budgetary aspect, because it is known that when the time of arrival of this child has been very short, as the legislation now permits, this sometimes creates difficulties in a second stage. More adoption leave would, it seems to me, in a number of cases avoid the second use of other types of leave, including sick leave. The operation would then be relatively budget neutral. I think that this could be done not only by yourself but also by the social partners, on the part of trade unions or employers. It is also in their interest to avoid the repetition of successive leave in a second stage. On the other hand, in qualitative terms, there is obviously an added value, not only for children, but also for parents. Minister, I come back to you, after speaking to Minister De Block. In relation to this, do you intend to act actively in response to the legitimate request of these families to extend the adoption leave in the best interests of these children? I had already, since several legislatures, tabled a text on the subject. One could very well imagine moving forward together, majority and opposition, in connection with the government, in a positive way. In the government, have you ever had any contact with Minister De Block? What about it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic071x.u72	Mr Minister, I, too, had addressed Mrs De Block in the first place, since I thought that this was a matter for Social Affairs. However, she has referred us to you. That's why I'm asking you the question. On the one hand, there are the legislative proposals tabled by both Mrs Fonck and myself. In the past, we have submitted it together. In the meantime, there is also collective Mother's leave for everyone. They also call for attention to be paid to their own situation, the situation of adoptive parents, who are now faced with sometimes no adoption leave at all, while maternity leave is at least 15 weeks. It is perhaps illogical that there are considerable differences in adoption leave today. For children under three years of age, six weeks can be taken, for children between three and eight it is four weeks and for children over eight years of age there is nothing left. As if a child of eight years of age suddenly doesn't need a suture, as if one suddenly doesn't need days of leave to put all kinds of things in order, including administratively. This is independent of the fact that we have to talk about the reception period. Do you have any plans regarding the adaptation of adoption leave? Can this be harmonised so that it is equal for all? We ourselves have a bill to at least bring it to everyone in six weeks, which today applies to children up to three years of age. Moreover, budgeting would not mean a large additional cost. The latest figures available to me date from 2011. They indicate that this amounts to less than EUR 607 million in expenditure on thematic leave. I therefore believe that this is a very justified question. It is not about a very large group, but that small group is equally entitled to some kind of parental leave, perhaps even more than the others. Parents are parents, but I think it is important that they too can assert this right. My second question is about foster care leave. There too, there is a problem. You have been Prime Minister of Flanders and you know that it is very difficult to find enough foster parents. It is a form of concern that we as a society greatly appreciate. People are committed to caring for others, children and adults. It is sometimes also a question of accommodating adult people with disabilities. So one can't appreciate this enough. When it comes to appreciating those people in the form of a little leave, we see that this is now fixed on a maximum of six working days. This also applies to only one of the foster parents, not both. When a foster child is admitted, it is of course a good thing that both parents can vouch for the reception. More than that, that is often even a necessity. If they are called up by the juvenile court, then very often both foster parents are summoned together and not one of them. So those six days is basically a shell of pods. I would ask that those six days should at least be given to both foster parents and that we should symbolically express our support for that group of foster parents.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic071x.u73	Mr President, Mr Lanjri, Mr Fonck, I can be quite brief. I agree that adoption leave and foster care leave are important elements for the integration of the child into the family and the establishment of a relationship with parents. I am therefore in favour of extending the duration and adjusting the modalities of both engagements, and I will look into the extent to which this can be achieved. I am therefore positive and will examine to what extent this is feasible. At the moment I have not received a question to this effect, but as regards adoption leave, I will consult with my colleague from Social Affairs and also with the other colleagues from the Federal Government.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic071x.u74	Minister, you will receive our full support. A short answer can contain much more information and be clearer than a long one. This is the first time I have heard a clear and strong response expressing the desire to extend the length of the adoption leave. I'm glad. You didn't give a timing, but, knowing you, I know I can count on you for this extension to take place in the coming year.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic071x.u75	Hope gives life!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic071x.u76	Anyway, I'll be behind you and I hope we can move on.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic071x.u77	Minister, I am also very pleased with your answer. It is a very limited group, but therefore no less important. This is intended to give people the signal that they have the right to bond with their children, their adoptive children or their foster children, and that our society appreciates that. I am glad that you want to take this up and that you will discuss this with your colleagues in the government. The social partners also give an opinion on this. This is a very limited measure which has an effect on the ground. Thank you for that. I look forward to your initiative. We have already taken an initiative ourselves. The initiative can also be taken by Parliament. I think that majority and opposition could even find each other in this.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic071x.u78	Mr President, Minister, I also hope to have a positive answer to this second issue. If that is the case, I will come back all the time. I'll come with my big shopping list! I also asked the Minister of Social Affairs about the issue of the recognition of close caregivers who sent me back to you. A first step was taken with the adoption of the law of 12 May 2014 on the recognition of the caregiver helping a person in a situation of great dependence. This law defines the caregiver as "the person who provides continuous or regular assistance and support to the aided person", the aided person being the person who is recognized in a situation of great dependence. The Act also sets out the conditions that must be met in order to be recognized as a close caregiver. This law still has to be the subject of royal decrees. Minister De Block is committed to moving forward. I hope she does it quickly. However, it is not this law or these royal decrees that will provide concrete answers to the situation of these people and to their daily lives. Beyond the theoretical recognition of close caregivers, it is necessary to be able to provide support by, for example, introducing a specific thematic leave for close caregivers, assimilated to the level of the pension, by determining access to social rights for close caregivers in terms of health care, compensation and unemployment and by improving the consideration of the burden of dependency at the tax level. I come to you today because, despite the statements, certain measures taken by the government go directly against the support of close caregivers. They regularly used both unmotivated time credits and income guarantee allowances. Here I take the example of those, often women, who had a child who was heavily disabled or cared for a highly dependent elder, who continued to invest professionally on a part-time basis and who benefited from this income guarantee allowance, which allowed them to devote time to the helped. The reduction of the income guarantee allowance, divided by 2 for the co-residents and divided by 4 after two years for the co-residents, makes the situation challenging and undermines the situation of those close caregivers who, at the professional level, risk being disgusted to take on the whole. The Minister for Social Affairs replied that I had to consult you, this matter to be analysed with the social partners. That's normal. This issue will need to be addressed when the social partners look at the new career model with all its stakes, possibilities and flexibility on the workers' side. Mr Minister, has this issue of close caregivers ever been raised in discussions with the social partners? If this is not the case, could you put this debate on the table of the Group of Ten or some other structure? This would allow you to have answers to your progress quickly. Do you have any contacts on this issue with the various competent ministers? Can we consider moving forward quickly, given the negative measures currently being taken with regard to guaranteed income allowances and unmotivated time credits? In addition, it is never seen only through the budgetary lorgnette, but the positive fiscal impact that these close caregivers bring at the state level in general should still be recognized. The savings they bring in terms of investment in these children or adults who are heavily disabled or who suffer from other conditions, particularly at the medical level, is very important for the State budget. It is necessary to balance these various elements and not to automatically reject proposals which are made solely on budgetary elements.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic071x.u79	Dear colleague, I have already pointed out that, next Friday, I will have a meeting with Mrs Milquet on many points, including the problem you mentioned. I hope we are moving in the right direction to find a solution. The law of 12 May 2014 on the recognition of the caregiver helping a person in a situation of great dependence is a fundamental step in the social recognition of the importance of the assistance and permanent support provided by all these people acting in the shadow of those who are in a situation of dependence. The high symbolism of this recognition by the legislator bears witness to this essential role of close caregivers in our society. I will find solutions to this problem, Mrs Fonck, and in the wake of this law, adjustments to our social security system will have to be made in broad consultation. The specific situations faced by close caregivers should be taken into account. This is the most important, in my opinion, among other things. We are aware of that. I will have a dialogue with both Mrs Milquet and other ministers at various levels. I am convinced that the law of 12 May 2014 needs to be adapted and in this discussion it will be important to take into account the specific situations that close caregivers face.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic071x.u80	The law of 12 May is obviously an important step, but this recognition cannot be satisfied. I don't understand why you're talking about Mrs Milquet, she's not the one with the levers. She's not a minister-president, as I know. Several federal ministers are involved, as well as several ministers at the level of the federated entities. Problems can be solved here with regard to social security schemes. If each minister could provide concrete answers to his or her level of power and we could bring together all the ministers concerned, at all levels of power, progress could be made. I propose to come to meet you with the association of close caregivers and take some of your time. This could enlighten you if you have doubts about certain realities. This would also allow you to discuss concrete answers with the members of the association. Thank you for your opening. Clearly, you are aware of this reality and the importance of this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic071x.u81	Mr Minister, on 11 December 2014, I drew your attention in plenary to the issue of availability in the labour market for persons covered by the single payment scheme. New rules are in force as a result of the publication of the KB in the Belgian Official Journal on 30 December 2014. Last year you showed understanding of the problems that have arisen as a result of this and you promised to seek a solution. I have heard through all kinds of channels that there have already been several consultations. Minister, what progress has been made on the consultation between your level of policy and Minister Muyters? Is this a consultation between the management board of the RVA and the VDAB or a consultation in the Group of Ten? What is the outcome of this consultation?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic071x.u82	Mr Kitir, you are very familiar with the situation. Approximately 660 former employees of Ford Genk over 58 have opted for the SWT and not for registration in the employment cell. They have thus indicated that they no longer wish to be available for the labour market. With the implementation of the government agreement to keep employees longer in employment, the Royal Decree of 30 December 2014 provides that all unemployed and SWT workers should be available again, both actively and passively, for the labour market up to 65 years of age. An exception was made to that rule for the unemployed and the SWT-ers who were 60 years of age or older on 1 January 2015. They do not need to be available for the labour market. Therefore, for SWT-ers who have not reached the age of 60 on 1 January 2015, such as SWT-ers of Ford Genk, the availability obligation applies. You have already asked several questions about this. I have always said that we would raise the problem. You are also apparently aware of the fact that there have been several contacts between the RVA and the VDAB. We have followed the issue very closely and we are also getting a lot of e-mails from the 660 people involved and we have made the necessary contacts ourselves. Yesterday I myself completed such contact, because I knew you would ask this question today. In the Group of Ten, the framework agreements on royal decrees and possibly other elements are discussed. We have now agreed that as long as the Group of Ten is in the process of negotiating, the VDAB will not take any action against that group of persons. In this sense, we can reassure them that, as long as the interprofessional consultation is ongoing, they will not be asked for their active availability. We shall see what the outcome of the Group of Ten's consultation will be to see how we deal with the problem in the federal government. I hope that in this practical way there can be some peace in the matter. Of course, this is not a definitive solution, but it is a matter of looking at what the social partners themselves might put forward in the consultation or what initiatives or proposals they themselves will put forward in this regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic071x.u83	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. You will understand that many people feel that they are being held in a stranglehold by the changes that have been made. Several consultations took place, but no one received an official reply. They didn't know what was going on. Both the RVA and the VDAB give contradictory signals. I am pleased that you are taking the problem seriously and making efforts to enable social dialogue to find a solution to this problem. However, you know that this is not just about the employees of Ford Genk. Many SWTs who do not work at Ford Genk are also affected by the change in the measure. They are wrong in the same situation, but may get less attention, because they come from a smaller company. So I'd like to get a clarification. Is it just about the employees of Ford Genk or are you opening the scheme to the SWTs in general?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic071x.u84	It's about the employees of Ford Genk and the supply companies. I am well aware that the problem is wider, but Ford Genk's employees are in a specific situation. They could choose between boarding in an employment cell or entering the SWT. They have lost EUR 6 000 for this purpose. I am well aware that the problem is even wider, alongside the people of Ford Genk. However, in view of the specific situation of Ford Genk, where people have made a choice with financial consequences, I have initially put the decision on hold for the time being. I cannot, of course, anticipate the discussion about the SWTs of other companies. I am still waiting for proposals from the social partners and they must of course be discussed in the federal government.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic071x.u85	Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic071x.u86	Mr President, Minister, last weekend you went down to beautiful Antwerp to find out about safety. I read in the newspaper that you went shopping on the Meir and I suppose you also went for a drink or that you visited catering. You will therefore have heard that the catering industry is concerned. We noticed this yesterday, because the sector argued, not only the employers but also the staff. There is some concern in the catering sector. The reason is the introduction of the white checkout in January 2016, but on several occasions the catering industry has said that it does not want to counter this and to tackle undeclared work. The main cry concerns, in particular, how to ensure that staff are employed in such a labour-intensive sector. I do not know if your colleague, Mr Tommelein, has spoken in turn, but apparently he is working on a rescue plan for the catering industry. He proposed that employers pay 25% of social security contributions on top of the net wage, specifically in the catering sector. That's what your colleague says. The government agreement does include a marshall plan, specifically for the catering sector. As Minister of Work, you can also remove concerns in the catering sector. There are many measures in the coalition agreement which must of course be implemented. I am thinking, for example, of the reduction in overtime labour costs, the reform of casual work, the administrative simplification of social documents or the calculation of student work in hours rather than in days. One of the major problems is the performance of overtime. Many measures in the government agreement largely cater to the hospitality sector. What is the state of play with regard to the implementation of these measures? This is an en-en-story. It is not possible for us to do nothing now and introduce the white register, and only then to think about the way in which we will pay overtime and how we should deal with casual work. We must therefore first take all these measures, and then make the introduction of that white checkout as smoothly as possible in January 2016. Firstly, what is the state of these measures? Secondly, what your colleague Tommelein said yesterday was discussed in the government and was an agreement reached on this?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic071x.u87	Mr President, Mrs Demir, you can ask my colleague Bart Tommelein yourself about what he said. I also hope that we will meet on a Saturday morning shopping in Antwerp; that is very pleasant and I do that regularly, maybe I will come next Saturday. Anyway, that wasn't your question. I also went to a coffee shop in Antwerp on Saturday, there are many. It is highly recommended for those who do not often go to Antwerp to do so. As of 2016, all catering stores that make up more than 10% of their turnover from the sale of food have to work with the so-called white cash register. That timing has been established for a long time. The cash register will ensure that undeclared work is stopped in the hospitality industry. In the past, measures have already been taken to ensure that this notification can be implemented. I am thinking, for example, of the reduction in VAT to 12% for food or an additional reduction in charges for five permanent full-time workers. Experience in the field is that these measures were not sufficient. That is why the coalition agreement, which you know very well, included a number of additional measures. These are in addition to the general measures taken by the government to make work more attractive. Think of strengthening the reduction in charges in 2016 and 2019 or the increased reduction in charges for the recruitment of a first, second or third employee. Of course, catering shops can also benefit from these general measures. We have also consulted our fellow Members to draw up a plan of action for the catering industry. The starting point is that the cash register will be there from 2016, this is irreversible. The government thus confirms that it is serious about the fight against social and fiscal fraud. Of course we do not want to cause a social massacre and so we are studying how best to support the catering industry. You yourself mentioned a number of measures listed in the government agreement, namely the relaxation of casual work, the possibility of earning an attractive income in addition to another job in the hotel and catering sector or the increase in the number of fiscally attractive overtime hours up to 250 hours per year. It is very important to take care of this. I also said yesterday that these measures should be developed and put into effect, so that this white checkout can be generalised on 1 January 2016. I said that during the government negotiations, in which you were present. We'll do anything for that. I think that we should first implement this before considering whether we should take further measures which are not in the coalition agreement. However, that is a discussion that must take place in the government and everyone must agree with it. The additional measures which are not included in the coalition agreement must be agreed by all the partners involved. I am carrying out what has been agreed and what is in the coalition agreement. I will do everything I can, and you will certainly support me in doing so, to get that done this year, so that the catering sector can use those measures from 2016.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic071x.u88	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. If I understand correctly, Mr Tommelein has spoken a bit in turn, because what he proposes is not in the coalition agreement. As you say, first things first. There's a marshal's plan for the catering industry in the government agreement. You have listed these measures again. We must do this in the coming months so that everything can be done smoothly on 1 January 2016. Additional measures, such as those announced by Mr Tommelein yesterday in the press, should be discussed by the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic071x.u89	Minister, I have a question about time credits for step-parents and foster parents. In the government it has been agreed that the unmotivated time-credit should no longer be linked to the benefit and that it should no longer be included in the pension. If people want to record that without getting a fee, they can. An extension of the time-credit for caring for children and sick or disabled family members has been chosen. That is in itself positive. Foster parents used the unmotivated time credit that existed until 31 December 2014, often as a way to take care of their foster children. That was the only way. That leave is no longer available. What alternatives can foster parents still avail themselves of? Are there any new possibilities? Is it an option to allow access to parental leave for this target group, subject to certain restrictions to prevent abuse? In our society, there are different types of families. Besides the classic family there are many straight and gay couples with or without children and newly composed families where one or both partners have children from a previous relationship or relationship. It can get complicated sometimes. One can have one's own children, partner's children or foster children. Is there access for those families to care leave or time credit? Is it possible for a stepmother or a father, although not the legal parent, to take care leave? Of course, I understand that this needs to be made very clear in order to avoid duplication and abuse. I absolutely do not want a child growing up with Mom and Dad to be limited to 4 months, whereas that would be twice as much if a child had a stepdad and a real daddy. Those elements should be examined. Shouldn't care leave also be extended to include, for example, the stepmother who provides care, because the biological mother has died or doesn't take leave?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic071x.u90	Minister, there is currently no statute for foster parents, even if this is an important and topical problem. We have tabled a legislative proposal on this subject, which we hope will soon be dealt with in the Committee on Justice. There is not just the question of the legal status. Foster parents lack any real leave arrangements. They can, however, rely on a kind of care leave, but this is intended to regulate the more administrative matters. We have also drawn up a legislative proposal on this subject, which will soon be submitted to the Chamber. In the past, because of the lack of legislation, foster parents often used the unmotivated time-credit to create a kind of foster leave themselves. However, some changes have recently been made to the unmotivated time loan, threatening foster parents to fall out of the boat. It is important, however, that this is properly regulated, as their function is very important to society. Mr Minister, are you planning accompanying measures for foster parents who take unmotivated time credits for children? Or do the new rules on unmotivated time credits also apply to them? What possibilities do you see? Can you not take a transitional measure until there is legislation, including in relation to care leave for foster parents?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic071x.u91	Foster parents employed under an employment contract are entitled to six-day annual foster care leave, which allows them to provide foster care and to complete the formalities associated with foster care. As I said earlier, I will examine the extent to which leave can be extended. In addition, the foster parents can still make use of the right to unmotivated time credit. However, this right is no longer linked to a benefit. I have instructed the Federal Public Service for Employment, Labour and Social Affairs to draw up an analysis paper which examines how the right to parental leave could also apply to a foster child or child of whom one is not the legal parent. On the basis of that note, I will examine to what extent an extension of parental leave is possible. The draft law prepared by the Minister of Justice concerns the civil status of foster parents.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic071x.u92	Minister, your answer largely responds to the question, at least if the unmotivated time-credit, which is abolished, can be replaced by parental leave. I admit, however, that parental leave is, of course, only four months, while the unmotivated one-year time loan applied. If necessary, this aspect should be looked at. However, it would be good if foster parents were also entitled to parental leave. I think it can be seen from your answer that the analysis also covers other parents, such as stepparents. It will be considered whether they can also be entitled to parental leave. That was my question, too. So I am very grateful for your answer. I look forward to the result and I will soon ask you a question again to see what you can do after analysing the FOD's note.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic071x.u93	Thank you for the answer. I look forward to the analysis. Our bill goes in that direction, too. It will be considered in the near future. I will invite the other groups to sign or support it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic071x.u94	Mr President, Minister, the government has decided to complete the welfare envelope at 100%. That's good news. At the time of the Di Rupo government it was 60%. The question is, of course, what the money will be spent on. I think we absolutely must avoid organising new unemployment traps. It is also important to use the money for the group of people with the highest risk of poverty, such as those with low pensions, those with a living wage and those with disabilities who receive income replacement benefits. We must make every effort, as stated in the government agreement, to bring social benefits to the European poverty line. In the past, this has always been said, but never done. You and your party are the social face of this government and I hope that this will finally be done. How will the government ensure that the lowest social benefits are raised to the European poverty line and that the fall in unemployment does not increase? Another important question is whether the social partners are on the same lines?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic071x.u95	Mr President, first I would like to remind you that the government has released a wealth envelope, more than the previous government, of EUR 319.5 million in 2015 and EUR 627.2 million in 2016. The budget for the fight against poverty and the maintenance of welfare benefits was thus increased by the government compared to the initial budget. In accordance with the government agreement, these funds will be used as a priority to gradually increase the minimum social security benefits and social assistance payments to the European poverty line. The next three welfare envelopes can be used as a priority. I gave you the text given to the social partners on 15 January, which refers explicitly to the government agreement. It also states that the risk of poverty of any social benefit should be taken into account. I would just like to say, although you may also know, that on the basis of studies carried out initially by the Committee on Ageing, the risk of poverty among pensioners is generally 20% compared with 14.4% for the rest of the population. In the case of unemployment, the risk is as high as 46% on the basis of the figures of the WSE Support Point. The living wage for two people living together is 33.7% below the European poverty threshold. We also stated in the document of 15 January 2015 that we must be very careful with and therefore pay close attention to the inactivity traps and the unemployment traps. They should be avoided. On the basis of those elements, which are included in the document of 15 January 2015, we have asked the social partners to distribute the € 319 million envelope and € 627 million in a sensible and just manner on the basis of the elements included in the government agreement. The question is whether they will succeed. I don't know. They are now sitting together and I cannot anticipate the outcome of their negotiations. We have clearly given the lines for this government. I am very confident that they will negotiate the issue with great care.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic071x.u96	Minister, the figures on the risk of poverty, which you mentioned earlier, are 46% for unemployment benefits, for example. An unemployed person falls back to a minimum amount after a certain period of time, since unemployment benefits have been reduced by the previous government, which was a good measure for me. If, after a certain number of years, for example, after five or ten years, a person goes down to a minimum benefit, the person concerned must seek employment in particular. I am speaking on behalf of my group. I am of the opinion that I hope that you have also explained this to the social partners and that it is in no way the intention to spend the welfare envelope on unemployment benefits. Priority should be given to low pensions. This concerns people who have contributed to the system, who have worked effectively for years after each other and who have paid social contributions to social security. They are now getting a low pension, which has to go up drastically. The second priority is the living wage and the third priority is for people with disabilities. These are, of course, people who cannot work. However, the welfare envelope does not serve people who can work, and I am referring specifically to unemployment benefits. Other measures will have to be taken for this group, otherwise it will be detrimental to unemployment traps. The difference between working and unemployment benefits will then be reduced. That's not what the welfare envelope is for. I hope you gave that message very clearly to the social partners.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic071x.u97	The message we sent to the Group of Ten is no less in the document of 15 January, no more, no less. We shall see what comes of it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic071x.u98	Mr President, Minister, I referred just now to Eurostat's figures, which say that we still have a labour cost handicap. An employee who works an hour in the private sector in Belgium costs the employer 41 euros. In the Netherlands, France and Germany this is 8 euros less. So we still have a labour cost handicap in relation to our neighbouring countries of 16%. The figures can be discussed, but there is a problem with labour costs. That is the major problem of employment in Belgium. I hear a number of hurray messages from the unions, because according to them the problem hocus pocus was solved in 2014. Minister, how are you going to remove the labour cost handicap that is still there? How will you achieve the commitment in the government agreement to sustained wage moderation in 2015 and 2016, until our competitiveness is restored, which is not yet the case?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic071x.u99	Mr President, there is a lot of negotiation here too, and I assume that these negotiators will also have their mobile phones on hand so that they can follow very closely messages that appear. First of all, I would like to say something about the methodology. Eurostat assumes absolute differences in hourly wage costs, while the Central Council for Business is based on the evolution of hourly wage costs since 1996 compared to a weighted average of the same trend in neighbouring countries. In other studies, the ULC, the unit labour cost, is depicted, these are labour costs per unit of production. The advantage of such a method is that it takes into account the differences in productivity. By taking only the hourly wage costs, that element disappears. So there is a lot of tricks with numbers, with percentages, but one must always keep an eye on the basis and how it is calculated. According to the report of the Central Council for Business in December 2014, labour costs have been reduced by 2.9 % since 1996. It should not be forgotten that a number of wage subsidies which are more important in our country than in neighbouring countries are not currently taken into account for the calculation of this handicap. The government committed itself to revising the 1996 law by means of a KB negotiated by the Council of Ministers. Moreover, there are also significant sectoral differences in labour cost competitiveness, as demonstrated by the report of the Competitiveness and Employment Expert Group of July 2013. Moreover, other notable findings were also made in that report, such as the logical but little mentioned fact that the increase in the number of low-paid jobs improves competitiveness, while the increase in the number of well-paid jobs increases competitiveness. I assume that everyone prefers a situation of full employment with high-paid jobs to a situation of incomplete employment with low-paid jobs, even if in the second case the hourly wage cost is better. It is therefore also appropriate to introduce the necessary nuances in this context and to conduct the debate in a hygienic manner when looking at all these figures. Apart from this debate on numbers, I do not think anyone is denying that there is a problem of competitiveness in our country. It took a long time for everyone to realize that, but thank God we're here now. I assume that you do not want to launch a number debate but rather to ask the political question of how the implementation of the coalition agreement can bring about an improvement in competitiveness. In any case, the 1996 Law provides the legal framework within which the ongoing wage negotiations must be conducted. The government has made it clear to the social partners that the remaining labour cost handicap needs to be eliminated in the short term. You will also find this in the document of 15 January. As you know, the government agreement mentions three instruments to reduce labour costs. These are the index jump, a further moderation of wages and the strengthening of the contribution reductions. In this respect, we must note that, according to the government agreement, these reductions in contributions must lead to a proportional reduction in the wage costs of disabled people. They cannot therefore serve to create additional margins. The index jump and the more moderate wage evolution than in neighbouring countries must therefore ensure that the handicap disappears. I believe that the opportunity should be seized to eliminate the hourly wage handicap in relation to 1996 before the end of the legislature, as laid down in the coalition agreement. In addition, if there were a margin to make it possible to conclude an agreement and strengthen purchasing power, then I am not going to give my opinion on it now. That is what the social partners are now sitting together on. If they have an agreement on this, we will look into it in the federal government with the necessary wisdom. I think it is important to look at competitiveness in a sufficiently comprehensive way. First of all, we must avoid the emergence of a new labour cost handicap in the future. In addition to hourly wage costs, this may include productivity, job creation, sectoral problems or energy costs. I think everyone knows that we have made a number of clear agreements on this, for example on the energy standard. What interests me most is the restoration of competitiveness and its conversion into as many jobs as possible and as high as possible. I hope that there will be a wage agreement in which the labour cost handicap will be removed very clearly in relation to 1996. For the way and the quantity, it is just a matter of waiting to see what the Group of Ten can agree on the next few hours or days.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic071x.u100	Mr President, Minister, I did not intend to start a whole debate on figures. I think it's clear to everyone that we have a problem. This problem does not date back to 1996, but from before. It's always forgotten. We already had a labour cost handicap before the 1996 law. The fact that our labour costs are the highest in Europe is not under discussion. So we have to do something about that. That's what the coalition agreement says. My fear, however, is that the social partners, who are not so much concerned with the general interest, will agree on this in the coalition agreement... Yes, Mr Vansintjan, I know you do not agree with that, but I am speaking as a Member of Parliament. I believe there is still freedom of expression in public space, so please hold your criticism for yourself or for the ACV... A Member of Parliament is speaking, not Mr Vansintjan of the ACV...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic071x.u101	Carry on. I'm responsible for my head of the cabinet. I'll answer right away. You don't have to fish it. There's no need for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic071x.u102	Minister, if he says anything, I think I can say something back as a Member of Parliament. My fear and that of our group is that the agreements in the coalition agreement may be undermined. I also hear what the unions say in the newspapers. I think that fear is justified. You are Minister of Work, so I assume that you are calling the unions to order and watching over what we agreed in the government agreement with regard to wage moderation and labour costs. It is not so much a question of removing the pay handicap but of finally doing something about wage costs so that employers can start recruiting again. I thought this was the intention of the coalition agreement. It's just a fear I have. I hope you'll take care of it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic071x.u103	It is every Member's right to have an opinion and to express it, especially here or on the street, whatever. However, I note that it has already been stressed twice that the social partners would not pursue the general interest. I assume that political parties do not and that there are Members who do not. However, on the basis of which you base yourself to say that the social partners who are trying to conclude agreements with knowledge... I would speak more nuancedly about this, but it is your right to do so. Secondly, that is a totally different vision. A socio-economic reform without the social partners is not a problem for you, but it is a problem for me. I think that's where you're wrong. With respect, I've been in this business longer than you have, and I've also had 18 years of experience with the social partners. It is that which brings me to the points of view that I share. Anyway, it's your point of view, which I absolutely don't share. I also assume that the social partners are now negotiating in great wisdom. This wisdom cannot be dismissed as you do, as if they were not pursuing the general interest and so on. I know a few others who also do not pursue the general interest. I do not think that is a correct debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic071x.u104	That's a concern I have. I am speaking on the basis of experience with what has always been done in the social dialogue so far. Why has social dialogue always worked so well in the past? Because governments have always come up with a lot of money. Just think of the recent CBAs on the bridge pension. This costs money and does not benefit the public interest. The public interest requires that we work longer. It can't be that some people have to work longer and others don't. Secondly, I am simply basing myself on the figures of the labour cost handicap. Who has always negotiated wages so far? How come it has come to this with the labour cost handicap? The fact that labour costs are so high is not due to the initiatives taken by the government or Parliament, but to the fact that, out of respect for social dialogue, they have always been allowed to take all the consequences. Now we lose a lot of jobs. Companies are pulling away. Construction workers must compete with construction workers from the Eastern bloc and Portugal because it is cheaper there.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic071x.u105	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic071x.u106	That may be, but I'm speaking on the basis of what I see. We have a huge problem with the labour cost handicap. I'm not talking about people's net wages. Finally, something must be done about labour costs. If we carry on like this, we're out of jobs tomorrow.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic071x.u107	It's an interesting debate, but I want to close it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic071x.u108	Parliament has the final say.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic071x.u109	There are employers at the table in the Group of Ten.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic071x.u110	Question No 1761 by Mr Daerden is postponed at his request.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic071x.u111	Mr Vice Prime Minister, despite the stormy weather, we will try to restore peace in the house with a somewhat less emotional question about the unitary status. The single statute, which was established in the previous legislature after lengthy negotiations in a tripartite dialogue between the employers' federation, the trade unions and the government, finally brought together the provisions on notice periods and the day of care for workers and servants, with an exception for certain sectors. In view of some of the findings, the question arises as to whether this is moving in the right direction. I am referring specifically to the calculation of the notice period for servants who have built up a limited seniority before 31 December 2013 One clicks that fixed on that date and then builds up the servant rights in the new unitary statute. However, there is a perfide aspect to this and this has never been the intention of employers. A person who has acquired one day's seniority before 31 December 2013 shall immediately have a starting point of three months' notice, in accordance with the old rules in which there was a statutory minimum notice period of three months for servants. On top of that, the weeks are included in the unitary statute. Recently, someone has given me an example of an entry into service on 15 July 2013, a good six months before the entry into force of the unitary statute. So a three-month pedestal was built up and then, after the resignation on 19 January 2015, eight weeks were added. This led to a five-month notice period. According to the old rules, prior to the unitary statute, that person would have been entitled to a three-month notice. However, the intention was to level down the notice periods of servants and to increase those of workers, to meet each other in a reasonable medium. It is therefore a disproportionate story for the specific case of servants with limited seniority prior to the entry into force of the unitary statute. Do you recognize that problem? Do you recognise that this was not the intention of the legislator, nor of the partners negotiating the unitary statute? If so, are you inclined to change the law in that regard? If not, why not?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic071x.u112	The Law of 26 December 2013 introduced from 1 January 2014 a new regime on notice periods, which are now the same for workers and servants. This will fully harmonise both statutes. For the employment contracts starting before 1 January 2014, a transitional arrangement was provided for taking into account the legitimate expectations of the parties concerned. In that context, it is indeed possible for certain lower servants to be given a longer period of notice than those to which they would be entitled in applying the previous rules. However, it should be pointed out that workers will also be given a longer period of notice in a similar situation and that they will increase proportionally much more than under the previous rules. The transitional arrangements will expire in the long term. That's not unimportant. It is part of the compromise reached between the government and the social partners. It is in line with the objective, in particular the harmonization of the statutes of workers and servants. Therefore, on the basis of the information I have now, I see no reason to change the law.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic071x.u113	I feel that, like some workers, it is an injustice. The scheme is disproportionate. Officers with very limited seniority prior to the entry into force of the unitary statute shall immediately build up a three-month pedestal. After that, people just start counting under the new statute. That is disproportionate and not really fair. However, I note that you do not wish to amend the law and I will consider what further action we will take.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic071x.u114	Mr. Chair, Minister, this is the last question of the day, but it is important. As you know, a very large number of sanctions are imposed by the ONEM, but it seems that you have decided to increase the character of these sanctions. Indeed, the minimum duration of administrative sanctions for the least serious acts was one week, it is now increased to four weeks. In addition, you have removed the possibility of attaching a decision to exclude a partial or complete stay. In the press, you have stated that this measure includes an unemployed person who makes an incorrect or incomplete statement for the purpose of unduly receiving allowances, or those who use incorrect documents for the purpose of receiving allowances in bad faith. I do not dispute that the unemployed in bad faith using false documents to receive benefits must be punished, and even severely. For them, it is normal for sanctions to be applied. For these persons, the minimum penalty period is 27 weeks. The new measures you have taken will not more severely punish people in bad faith but will penalize people who often in good faith and misinformed have made a simple mistake, which is unfair. For example, one person worked an acting day and actually mentioned it on his control card but not in indelible ink, as he should have done. Make a record of the number of unemployed people who have to write in indelible ink! I believe that this is never explained to them. In our example, this person will be deprived of his income for four weeks, without the possibility of a stay. This means that the Office of the ONEM, which previously could have seen this person's good faith, will not even be able to temper this sanction and reduce it. Automatically, it will be four weeks. The fight against social fraud is indispensable. You have a secretary of state in this area. It must be encouraged. But I don't think we should weigh the boat. It is important, in my view, to make a difference between intentional and fraudulent behaviour, with a legitimate sanction, and those that are not, with an arrangement that should be possible. I assume you agree with me, these are all new measures that will penalize people who have committed material errors without fraudulent intent. These people will therefore be punished more severely. Would it be possible for you to provide me with the number of partial and complete suspensions that were granted by the ONEM last year? This will allow to see the number of people potentially affected. For the partial stay, beyond taking into account the error that was committed by the unemployed, this also makes it possible to take into account his personal situation. There is still a series of training courses, including VDAB and FOREM. This allowed those people who had made a mistake and who had to be punished to continue to earn income while in vocational training. In this context, however, this will no longer be possible. While the declaration of government insists on integration, training and integration, why do you remove this partial suspension? It is counterproductive to the policy that you want to put in place.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic071x.u115	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is true that the minimum duration of administrative sanctions has been increased and that the possibility of suspension has been abolished. Indeed, the Government attaches particular importance to the fight against social and tax fraud. The penalties imposed by the ONEM must above all have a deterrent effect in order to avoid possible recurrence and the application of much heavier penalties. It is true, as you say, that in cases of manifestly fraudulent intent, the sanctions imposed by the ONEM are significantly higher. In the event of improper receipt of unemployment benefits without fraudulent intent, a minimum penalty will be applied. Here are some figures. In 2014, 19,600 administrative sanctions, without a stay or with a partial stay, were decided and 497 with a total stay. In addition, 12,946 warnings were issued. As you will see, this possibility was frequently used in 2014; this possibility of giving a warning has not been removed and this is the most important one regarding your question. The concept of stay, as well as the decision on the extent of the sanction, was based on objective criteria in relation to the infringement as such, the extent of the previous infringement in the case of the person concerned, etc. But I would also point out that the possibility of giving a warning is in no way removed; this is important to point out.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic071x.u116	Mr President, it is still happy that the warning has not been removed! Otherwise, we'd fall into automaticity. You know, even with regard to administrative sanctions, the administrative judge, even an official, is always given the opportunity to assess, like a magistrate in a civil court or a correctional court. The Correctional Court appreciates a margin of punishment, since the total absence of punishment (an acquittal), work sentences - I may come back one day -, total, partial suspensions, suspension of sentence; or a range of possible convictions. Imagine that someone who makes a mistake is punished by a month without appreciation in the head of the administrative judge that is the controller of the ONEM. I don't want to argue. The government is sometimes called security. I believe that you are also in relation to the most vulnerable populations, the unemployed, and also those who make mistakes, which is totally different from bad faith.
