ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic241x.u1	Before the exchange of views on the relief plan, are included in the agenda of the interpellations and attached item.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic241x.u2	Mr President, Madam Minister, on July 29, you announced that negotiations on the extension of Doel 1 and 2 had been completed and that the contribution of the nuclear sector was being revised upwards. These are your terms. I want to make it clear. This is the first time we have had the opportunity to interview you since then, even though the press has been able to do so during the holidays. We know how important it is to have all the information to understand your real intentions. My inquiry concerns the precise content of the agreement. I assume that we will go back on a new basis compared to last year and that this time we will be able to receive copies of the texts as you negotiated them with Electrabel. In this way, we can refer, to the letter, to the very content of this agreement. That is the request for transparency that I have made at the beginning of this meeting. Even if we know that the legislation will come later, an agreement has already been reached, since you announced it in great pomp on July 29. We received a study from CREG, which allowed you to consider a contribution that I would call ridiculous. The newspaper L'Echo reports on a work of financial modelling. I also ask for access and I hope that you can explain it to us. According to this model, revenues of 170 million in 2017 and 150 million in 2018. Have the auditors, the experts, all those who have dealt with the issue taken into account all possible ways of "siphoning"? I am thinking of consulting, supporting services, selling more or less legal gas between the Electrabel subsidiary and the ENGIE parent company. We know how much engineering in this area can reduce the tax base here and reduce the profit base. I wanted to check this in the context of the audit work that was carried out and that brought you to such low amounts. I would also like to know why, for some elements of the agreement, you are moving out of the lump sum logic, but for others, for example on 2015-2016, Doel 1 and Doel 2, you are sticking to it. Where is coherence? What allows you to say that this agreement is better than the one for the extension of Tihange 1? Why, while the government was asking for 300 million for the dispute over unoccupied sites, Electrabel is once again doing very well, i.e. with 120 million euros rather than 300 million euros? On the other hand, Electrabel must not give up any further litigation and any other legal proceedings initiated by this company. It's the pactole! I think that they have rarely had such a beneficial negotiation, without any commitment or waiver from other procedures. What did you agree through this agreement concerning the 400 million identified for 2012 alone by the Special Inspectorate of Taxes (ISI) as being tax evasion by overbilling the purchase of gas by the parent company? These elements allow us to understand the figures so small that you have retained, in fine. Since everything is finalized regarding Doel 1 and Doel 2 and they have been endorsed by the Federal Nuclear Control Agency, could you give us a picture of the work to be done there? I will show you the table we had received for Tihange 1, with the schedule of work, from the first year to 2020, and the allocation of EUR 592 million. I would like to get a similar picture so that there is as much transparency as in the past. That is to say, tables for Doel 1 and Doel 2 showing the staggering of these works. The last dimension of this inquiry concerns your timetable: what is it? You have announced your intention to come with the legislation in September, but we have not yet received anything. Is this text in the Council of State? Have you ever received the advice of the latter? If so, what does he announce? I ask you this question because you yourself set the ultimatum at the beginning of November and the timetable is narrowing. All the more so since a convention must be finalised after the law has been passed. We are therefore once again immersed in this issue with a request for transparency, access to various documents, criticism of the elements brought to our attention about this agreement and the timetable.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic241x.u3	Madam Minister, it is true that it was at the heart of the summer that you reached an agreement with Electrabel and ENGIE, as Mr Nollet reminded us. This agreement goes much further than the only extension of Doel 1 and Doel 2 since it also concerns the global nuclear contribution and the transaction in relation to the levy due under the Act of 8 December 2006 on unoccupied sites. This agreement is of fundamental importance not only for the consumer, but also for competition in the electricity sector but also for the State budget. My questions will be very specific and of course we hope to get answers as precise as the questions. What is the calculation methodology that leads you to conclude that a flat-rate annual amount of €20 million is the appropriate fee level in return for the extension of the Doel 1 and Doel 2 reactors? It is true that it is difficult to explain the mathematical model here but obtaining it in written form would be more than welcome. With regard to the nuclear allocation contribution to be paid to the 2015 budget, can you justify your decision to require a flat-rate amount of EUR 200 million here too. I think Mr. Colmant has been assigned a special task. Can models be accessed? As regards the nuclear allocation contribution to be paid to the 2016 budget, you have fixed a flat-rate amount of EUR 150 million, including the EUR 20 million annual fee in return for the extension of Doel 1 and Doel 2. This excluded, there is only 130 million euros. Again, what method of calculation does this decision justify for the 2016 budget? For future budgets, 2017 and beyond, you are moving away from the flat-rate approach by announcing that the government will have a formula that takes into account production costs, production volumes and electricity sales prices. As a result, you announce that the nuclear sector will contribute 40% of the profit margin. Can you justify the 40% rate? Why didn't you select the maximum rate of 70%, as was the case with Tihange 1? Will CREG be responsible for verifying production costs? How will you calculate the selling price of electricity from nuclear reactors? This is fundamental since, I would remind you, we are no longer going to the lump sum when the state has yet to win against Electrabel's appeals. In your press release of 29 July, you also announced that you had approved a transaction amounting to EUR 120 million to close the dispute between the Belgian State and Electrabel concerning levies aimed at combating the non-use of a power plant by a producer. Can you confirm that before this transaction, the Belgian State required at least EUR 300 million? I've heard much higher numbers! We're reducing all this, and finally, you're reducing it to 120 million euros. What are the reasons that led you to choose a transactional approach to settle this dispute, in total disfavor of the State? Was this transaction concluded in exchange for an agreement by Electrabel on the extension of Doel 1 and Doel 2? Finally, as regards the implementation of the above-mentioned elements, by which Mr Nollet concluded, do you currently have a draft convention accepted by the various parties? If so, are you prepared to forward it to this committee? Once signed, will this agreement be made public? Have you addressed the issue of the publicity of this agreement with the different contractual parties? I have the same question as Mr.Nollet on the timing of the bill, since in the Doel 1 and Doel 2 extension bill, which we did not vote but was voted by this chamber, you were announcing a bill before the convention was signed by the end of November 2015. I won't be longer, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic241x.u4	Mr.President, Madam Minister, for the first time, a government negotiated directly the amount of a flat-rate tax, proportional from 2017, with the taxpayer concerned. I'm talking about the rent. This agreement in principle, reached at the end of July, detracts from the major achievements achieved by previous governments. In fact, the pension tax mechanism, called the allocation contribution mechanism, has been validated three times by the Constitutional Court. For the CDH, there is no justification to further reduce the taxation of this pension from 200 million in 2015 to 130 million in 2016. Starting in 2017, the new nuclear allocation contribution will be calculated as a percentage of Electrabel's profit margin. Let me therefore ask you about the legal analysis. Indeed, the legal construction of this new distribution contribution may seem doubtful. She is. If this contribution is constructed as a tax on the profit margin of producers, it will be added to corporate tax and will automatically be considered as double taxation of the same income in contrast to a royalty. As a reminder, the contribution of nuclear distribution, the famous taxation of nuclear rent, was built by previous governments as the specific taxation of a production tool which historically has generated exceptionally high incomes, thus an annuity for a limited number of operators. Moreover, the agreement concluded today sets a flat-rate fee for the extension of Doel 1 and Doel 2, which amounts to 20 million between 2017 and 2025 without taking into account the price of electricity. The State is thus depriving itself of larger revenues. Minister, at the end of July, you announced the conclusion of this agreement in principle. But today, more than two months have passed and no bill has been tabled on the benches of Parliament to consolidate this agreement. When do you intend to introduce this bill? In addition, points of this agreement still appear to be under negotiation within the government. What are the points? Do you think you can promulgate this law before November 30, 2015, the date mentioned by Electrabel to be able to restart Doel 1 and extend Doel 2's activity this winter? What criteria were used to set the pension at 200 million in 2015 and 130 million in 2016? It is the method of calculation that interests me with regard to these selected criteria. Why did you change the mechanism for the taxation of nuclear rent when it was validated, on three occasions, by the Constitutional Court? Is this not an inconsiderate risk-taking? Why did you set the new levy at 40% of the operator's profit margin? That is why I come to the charge for extending the lifespan of Doel 1 and Doel 2, which is fixed on a flat-rate basis. Do you confirm that you do not want to take into account, in the future, the price of convenience? I would like to return to a question already raised concerning Mr Colmant's precise mission of intermediary in this negotiation. What is the legal form of this collaboration with Mr. Colmant? What were the criteria that formed the basis for this negotiation? What is the amount of remuneration received by the staff member for the mission?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic241x.u5	Madam Secretary, I have several questions on this subject. Just before the summer recess, your government presented an exercise on the tax shift with a number of remarkable decisions, including 28 million euros of speculation tax versus one and a half billion extra savings in social security. If there is already a shift in this tax exercise, it is in the wrong direction. At the time we thought we had had that tax shift and the tax injustice of this government, you managed to present an exercise that is, if possible, even more unjust just after closing Parliament's doors. Following the approval by Parliament of CD&V, Open Vld and N-VA for the extension of the life span of Objectives 1 and 2, you started negotiations. That was to be expected, as you almost begged on your knees to keep those power stations open for longer, resulting in a slew of nuclear interest. At the moment when we were all about to take our bags towards home or abroad, you faced us with the outcome of those negotiations, which resulted in a substantial tax reduction for the nuclear operator. I am therefore pleased that we can resume the work of our committee on this matter. It seems logical to me that such an agreement will still be the subject of many questions. I would also like to remind you, in particular the fellow Members from CD&V and Open Vld, that there is another step to be taken at Parliament's level. Mrs Dierick does not have to accept that decision. There must be a parliamentary vote on the convention in any case. Since there is still no clarity about the crack reactor, Mrs Dierick, you can keep your word and the words you said in this committee a few months ago in particular: there can be no extension of the lifetime of Objectives 1 and 2 if Objective 3 and Tihange 2 were to be restarted over the next few weeks. That's looking ahead. In order to look ahead, a number of questions still need to be answered. Madam Minister, it is important that you give as much text and explanation as possible on the concrete content of the agreement. I cannot imagine that this is just arranged on an oral basis. There must be a written translation of the negotiations. My question is whether Parliament has access to it. I know there will be another piece of legislation that will translate the agreement, but there will also be an agreement somewhere. I cannot imagine that you have just spoken orally about points 1, 2 and 3. It is important that I also look at you, Mr President-in-Office, for Parliament to have access to what has already been formalised. Secondly, what is the next stage? When can we expect a parliamentary debate on the draft law? Thirdly, do you still believe that I will come back to a number of oral questions in relation to the extension of the life span of Objective 1 as the blissful solution? There are two reasons for doubting that. There is a CREG study on energy supply. In fact, you had that study at the time when Parliament was considering Objective 1 and Objective 2. You didn't make it known at the time. A second element that could possibly encourage you to change the plans in this area is the fact that we have been confronted in recent weeks with the fickleness of our nuclear power stations. At some point, only two of the seven were active. We cannot ignore the fact that the most stable nuclear reactors in this country are the crack reactors because they are always stationary. The rest have cures or problems, not only in Tihange but also on the site of Doel. So perhaps there are reasons to reconsider that decision. Those were my first remarks and questions in a debate that may be continued in Parliament in the next few weeks. Mr President, I would like to address you. There will undoubtedly be a formalisation of the Marghem-ENGIE agreement. It would be good if Parliament could have that at this stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic241x.u6	Mr Calvo, let us first listen to the Minister's answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic241x.u7	Mr President, on the content of the negotiations, the content of the solution negotiated with Electrabel was, in transparency, communicated on 29 July. It follows that for the 2015 budget a flat-rate amount of EUR 200 million will be due, for the 2016 budget, a flat-rate amount of EUR 150 million, including the first flat-rate fee of EUR 20 million due for the extension of Doel 1 and Doel 2. For subsequent budgets, from 2017 onwards, the Belgian State shall review the allocation contribution according to a method which takes into account, in particular, the evolution of costs, the volume of production and the price of electricity, the levy being 40 % of the margin. With respect to your request to receive a copy of the signed texts, nothing has been signed to date. This should not surprise you, since we must first set the legal framework. Your request is therefore somewhat premature in that the document whose communication is requested does not exist to date. We are continuing the talks, which are coming to an end. The royalty and the nuclear contribution will be set out in bills to be tabled. Article 4/2 § 3 of the Act of 28 June 2015 provides that the Federal State shall conclude an agreement with the owner of the Doel 1 and Doel 2 nuclear power plants. Discussions are continuing with a view to the conclusion of such a convention. The objective remains to ensure the greatest transparency in this matter and to communicate this convention. In this regard, I refer to the statements made by Mr. Van Troeye in committee, who shares this concern for transparency. With regard to the date of the tabling of draft laws, two draft laws were prepared with a view to amending the following laws: the Act of 31 January 2003 on the phase-out of nuclear energy for industrial electricity production for the fee and the Act of 11 April 2003 on provisions for the dismantling of nuclear power plants and for the management of fissile material irradiated in such plants for the allocation contribution. These texts are being finalized and will soon be reviewed by the Council of Ministers. The IKW took place in a very constructive spirit, with converging views. The aim is to enact these laws as soon as possible. With regard to the work done to fix this contribution, I have already had the opportunity to indicate on several occasions that I have used the services of an economist to assist us in this process. Mr Colmant was appointed for this purpose by a public procurement organised by DG Energy. As you know, the allocation contribution is calculated on the basis of the contributory capacity of the contributors, which varies from year to year. Our approach is based on respect for the principles validated by the Constitutional Court, that is, the calculation of the contribution according to the contributory capacity of the debtors, which is assessed by the legislator, the capture of overprofits, the maintenance of a fair balance between the requirements of general interest and those of the right to respect for property and other principles which emerge from this constant jurisprudence of the Constitutional Court, of which, again, the last judgment of 17 September 2015. In addition, the CREG study of 12 March 2015 produced a detailed economic analysis of the economic assessment of nuclear power generation and an estimate of the profits of these activities, whose weighted amount is between €434.31 million and €434.35 million. It is therefore appropriate to take into account the downward trend in this profit derived from nuclear activities and the fact that these three units (Tihange 1, Doel 1 and Doel 2) will be exempt from the allocation contribution scheme, with a system of charges being applied to them. For the years 2015 and 2016, the surplus profit from nuclear activity can already be estimated with sufficient certainty. This is an estimate of the contributory capacity, taking into account this new CREG study and the average electricity prices for the years concerned. The amounts take into account the reduced use of power plants and the fall in the price of electricity, hence the fall in the profit of nuclear activity. The 2016 decision takes into account the special situation of 2015 production, which is also affected by a fall in electricity prices, and the even smaller use of power plants during this year. For the 2017 and subsequent years, the contribution is based on an economic approach that limits the prospective operating margin associated with nuclear production. This operating margin is dependent on several factors that will be set, such as fuel prices, electricity prices and the prospective use of power plants from this financial year 2017. With regard to the 40 % rate, the latter constitutes the high range of operating income that can be judiciously associated with an operating monopoly. Our economist, from the academic world, estimates that the monopoly rent is usually 30% of the operating income, so a rate of 40% is higher. This approach is different from that adopted for Tihange 1. In the case of this plant, consideration had been given to the remuneration of the capital invested. The rate of 70% applies to the result of the plant after deduction of this remuneration of capital, which explains a higher percentage. The percentages of 40 and 70 per cent are therefore in no way comparable since the formulation is not. CREG will be responsible for cost verification. Revenues will be calculated according to the methodology recommended by CREG. We will have the opportunity to come back, I have no doubt, with the introduction of these bills before your committee. Why did you change the mechanism for taxation of nuclear rent? As I have already indicated, we are not changing this mechanism. In line with the teaching of the Constitutional Court, the objective is to establish a permanent method of assessing the contributory capacity of the debtors by establishing, as objectively as possible, the amount of the nuclear rent. I come to the question of the negotiated solution for Doel 1 and Doel 2 which would be no better or worse than the one found for Tihange 1. The methodology for calculating the fee for an amount of $20 million is the same as for the apportionment contribution. The fee takes into account the specific investments implemented for Doel 1 and Doel 2 and pursues the objective of ensuring a regular amount in State funds. The price of convenience has not been ignored. As the CREG pointed out, it tends to decline. The concern was to secure receipts from the State funds. The calculation logic is identical to that applied to other power plants with the exception of Tihange 1, but incorporates depreciation. Unlike Tihange 1, the owner is not paid for his investment. In return for the extension of Doel 1 and Doel 2, the fee guarantees the State an annual revenue of 20 million euros until 2025, which is not the case for Tihange 1. I would now like to answer the question about unoccupied sites and the problem of possible tax evasion. The aim is to obtain payment under the Unoccupied Sites Act. In 2010, the Belgian State lost to the court of first instance and was ordered to repay the sums it believed to be collected in that capacity. The State appealed the decision for the period 2006 to 2008. For the following periods, an expert has been appointed to determine whether or not the sites that have been sampled fall within the scope of the Act. Indeed, that is the problem. Having said that, I cannot agree with your conclusions on this matter. There's no gift! The amounts due are contested by Electrabel, and the Belgian State lost in first instance. This issue is dealt with separately from the extension file, with the aim of ensuring that the State receives timely and effective revenue. The trial is on appeal. The foresight for the end of the procedure is so far away at this stage that we want to solve this problem quickly and be sure to get an amount that corresponds to the current analysis, which is being debated judicially. Finally, the Special Inspectorate of Taxes is continuing its work, and it is not for me to interfere in this matter. If it had to be proved that there had been a tax evasion, Electrabel would have to bear all the consequences and pay back the unpaid ones, like all the debtors.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic241x.u8	Minister, thank you for your answers. I have observed that colleagues are very attentive. We'll see what their reactions are.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic241x.u9	Madam Minister, I will reply in two steps: firstly, on the form and the question of transparency; and secondly, on the content of this agreement. First of all, you say that your objective is the greatest transparency. In this sense, I can only support you and go in your direction. However, when it comes to achieving this goal, you add that there is still nothing signed. However, as I know, when you submit an agreement on 29 July, it is not oral; it appears on a document containing principles. It is this document that we want to see at the moment, and not the agreement that will be signed after the passage of the bill. I therefore ask you to demonstrate your concern for transparency immediately. I am basing my request on an element which, I suppose, has arrived at you. Mr. Chairman, this is a new decision of the Commission d'accès aux documents administratifs (CADA) on environmental matters dated September 7, which directs the Minister to forward the document I am talking about. Minister, I assume that you know this document and that it has circulated correctly. On 7 September, the Commission again delivered an opinion requesting you to give access to this document. With the help of the President, I would like to see no longer playing like last year to say that we will get it later, that it may be, etc. The Commission has delivered this opinion and the Minister has read it, so I ask that the Minister transmit a copy of the agreement, texts that have been agreed. You did not say anything about this, but I reiterate my request to consult the table similar to that which Parliament had received for Tihange 1, namely the volume of work. This will obviously allow us to calculate the benefit that Electrabel can still earn after investment. How much has the work been agreed upon? For Tihange 1, we were 592 million euros; in your answer, I did not hear any amount for Doel 1 and Doel 2. I would ask you once again to show the greatest transparency to which you yourself wish to subscribe and, therefore, to communicate to us these two documents: the agreement and the table of work. The same applies to what I call the Colmant report. You have communicated to us, in two paragraphs, elements of this report. We want access to the full document. I believe that last year's work has shown you the value of giving the documents to Parliament very quickly rather than forcing Parliament to find them itself. I therefore invite you to take the floor again to give us these three elements or to confirm that you are going to pass them on to us. I have the decision at your disposal, Mr. President. This can be useful. Then, on the bottom, the elements you bring on the content confirm what had already appeared before and validate the fact that it is a triple gift for Electrabel. Yet you could rely on the Constitutional Court and on the latest court decisions that have validated the previous principles that allow us to look for more than what is being sought today: we are talking about 20 million for Doel 1 and Doel 2. The fact that we collect ridiculously low amounts on Electrabel has an impact on the consumer, whether they are families or businesses. They are the ones who will pay for the weakness of your agreement and the fact that you give gifts to Electrabel. Moreover, this agreement once again degrades the investment climate. It is 6 GW that will have to be removed between 2022 and 2025. You already know that it will be impossible and you're laying on it. Meanwhile, Electrabel won the Win for Life. I'll give you this document, Mr. President, so you can get to know it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic241x.u10	Minister, are you going to sign the agreement, which does not yet exist, before the bill is passed? Or are you going to respect what was declared today? I agree with Mr. Nollet's request. On July 29, you said you had an agreement with Electrabel. I guess you didn't do like the rappers and typed in the hand to signify the deal. There must be a document, which, since July 29, you have had time to refine. We would like to receive this document. Then I heard that the Intercabinet Working Groups (IKW) were there for both draft bills. It has been two months since these bills could be drafted. You did not ask for the advice of the Council of State. Due to the slow pace of government, the Council of State is expected to work in five days on a very sensitive subject, which is very important to the country. We would find that unacceptable if you asked for urgency. I also hope that you are not going to ask Parliament for urgency, because this project is worth a substantive debate, without any urgency. What is the amount claimed by the Belgian State for the removal of unoccupied sites? We've heard about 300 million but also a lot more. And now this amount has been reduced to 120 million. I would also like to know the exact amount that the Belgian State claimed. There is one point on which I doubt very much. You exit on unoccupied sites at the same time as the extension of Doel 1 and Doel 2. You're telling us now that "nothing is connected." Let me doubt that and let me believe that it is really hypocrisy. According to your comments, we were not going to win on appeal. A state that ignores a budget of several hundred million and that can take away from it, is acting on the basis of an analysis of lawyers that evokes the inadmissibility of going on appeal and perhaps also that of the Finance Inspectorate which would have said the same. If that is the case, I would like Parliament to be able to dispose of these elements. It's fundamental. These are hundreds of millions that are offered as a gift to a producer. We asked for a methodology in writing. You tell us you're using a CREG methodology. So, if you rely on a methodology that everyone has received, it must be easy for you to pass on the method you have followed. From the time Mr. Colmant was paid by the taxpayer, I feel that his method should be known and I assume that Mr. Colmant sent you a note, from which you made calculations. We simply ask for this note and the calculations you made. Finally, you tell us that 40% is the right tax starting in 2017, since it is a lump sum. And I do not understand that we abandon the lump sum when we have already won three times before the Constitutional Court. So you're telling us that a rate of 40% is good, but let me remind you that Electrabel had agreed to a rate of 70% for Tihange 1. You are telling us that the difference in remuneration over capital for investment is 30%, since we are increasing from 70% to 40%. You justify this 30% reduction in remuneration for capital. I would like to know, very precisely, how you have decreased from 70 to 40 per cent. How can it be said that 40% is more advantageous than 70% for the state? How can this be more beneficial than a lump sum contribution as filed? This agreement not only has an impact on the consumer and on our companies in relation to energy prices, but will also have a significant impact on other producers because it is the door to strengthening the monopoly of Electrobel and nuclear power. We will discuss it a lot more. Mr. Chair, I will table a motion.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic241x.u11	Mr President, Madam Minister, I am surprised by your analysis of the situation, particularly as regards rent, for which you say that the philosophy of the agreement has not been changed. Actually, you changed the deal. You're telling us you've negotiated. How is it possible not to change the agreement by negotiating with the Electrabel operator? As far as the rent is concerned, let's keep it simple: nobody in the past had negotiated a tax, a tax with a taxpayer on-line. No organization had dared to do it! We also innovate in this system, we negotiate with the operator the amount of tax and taxation. I must tell you that I am surprised because the Lambda citizen does not have the opportunity to negotiate with the state the amount of his taxes. I would like to reply that the rent mechanism, if it is actually negotiated, is weakened. That's the image you're giving. The consumer cannot negotiate with the producer the price of his electricity. In any case, what he can see is that VAT has increased. The State rent from Electrabel is lower, but the electricity bill for the consumer increases significantly. That is the political message the consumer has received! Second, you tell us that the amount for Doel's extension is $20 million and you're making a projection on the price of convenience. But how can you make a projection on the price of long-term convenience? I'm surprised by that amount. You're Mrs. Sun and you can tell us what the price of energy will be at the end of 4, 5 or 6 years. I'm a little surprised. Thirdly, on the methodology of this calculation, you told us that Mr. Colmant responded to a public procurement. Good, but questions arise. Since the contract is public, the documents are public, the methodology is public. I would like to know the amount of his remuneration and to have an echo of the methodology. We are, Madam Minister, awaiting further information. In any case, as far as the CDH is concerned, the political message is that one favours a big operator, who has a monopoly, to the detriment of the consumer. The tax has been negotiated and the direct consumer is seeing its VAT increase.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic241x.u12	Mr Calvo, you have the floor for a brief reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic241x.u13	Mr President, yes, I always keep my replies brief.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic241x.u14	I say that ex officio, as a precaution.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic241x.u15	Mr President, I will be very brief on the substantive assessment, because we will undoubtedly continue to have that debate, as I have already announced in my question. The Minister's argument does not convince me. It is a new example of this government's fiscal policy: anyone who already has a lot will get more. The same applies now to Electrabel. In my reply, I would particularly like to focus on the procedural issue. After all, I have the impression, Madam Minister, that we are experiencing a repetition, a re-release of the first episode of the Marghemgate that we have seen last spring. The Minister does not want answers in any way to the question of whether there is a formal agreement. Madam Secretary, you cannot tell us that this is settled on an oral basis. We do not just want to make peace with the press release you issued at the end of July. It makes sense for us to ask for the agreement. So I'm gonna take that question again. I think it is a very fundamental question, and I think it should also be answered today. Madam Minister, do we, as Members of Parliament, get the text you have chosen for inspection, yes or no? That is a first important procedural question in this matter. I refer once again to the example of the re-release of the spring, to which Mr Nollet has already referred. In the meantime, we have been able to take note of a Commission decision on access to and re-use of administrative documents. Mr President, my colleague, Mr Nollet, has delivered this opinion to you and I would like to ask you to disseminate it to Members of Parliament. After all, I cannot understand why the Minister deals with such opinions in the same way as in the spring. Madam Minister, I quote from the opinion of 7 September 2015. My quote is partial, but not one-sided, because the spirit of the opinion is clear. On page 2 it says: "The request for advice is admissible." On page 3 it concerns the correspondence that has taken place between the applicant, in particular Greenpeace, and your cabinet. The fact that this exchange of letters is taking place with a cabinet employee calls on you as an exception to the disclosure of information. I quote the Commission's reply on this: By stating that only a letter can be understood in writing, the Minister adds a condition which is not provided for in the law itself. There is a second element: "The fact that the application was addressed to a cabinet employee is also not a reason to reject the request. Moreover, in the present case, a letter was also addressed directly to the Minister himself. This can be read on page 3 of the opinion. The following passage on page 3 is worded as follows: "Only exceptions imposed by law can be invoked and, moreover, they must be interpreted restrictively." On page 4: "The Committee does not see why the application should be considered manifestly unreasonable. This is in no way demonstrated by the Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Dierick, Mr Wollants, this is a re-release of what we experienced in spring. The Minister is asked for a document by civil society and by Parliament, but she does not want to give it for the time being. I'll take my question again. The Minister must now make available the formal agreement that will be reached, especially since there is a ruling from a relevant committee on this matter. It is important that the majority of my fellow Members also take note of this opinion of 7 September 2015, which is why I am asking for it to be distributed to the banks.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic241x.u16	Minister, I propose that we try to close it quite quickly. I have, on the one hand, some sub-questions which have not been answered, for what I have heard, and, on the other hand, a request for the transmission of documents. May I ask you again about these two points?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic241x.u17	Yes, Mr. President. I repeat what I said to answer two or even three questions at the same time. The agreement is not signed. This text of a convention is a draft. In fact, Mr.Éloi Glorieux, representative of Greenpeace, sent me a letter on October 6, 2015, that is, after the CADA decision, of which – I think but I am not sure I understand – Mr Calvo delivered us some excerpts. His request is very simple. In its letter, it requested a copy of the following documents: the Convention on Principles concerning the conclusion of the Agreement of 29 July 2015 with Electrabel and ENGIE on the extension of the life of Doel 1 and 2 nuclear reactors. As I have told you and I have replied, as these documents are not finalized, I am not in a position to transmit them. I must not do so in the light of the law establishing the CADA, since there is no reason to deliver a document that is not finalized. You will have this convention in Parliament anyway. We have committed ourselves to it and you will have every opportunity to examine it at length and wide when I come with this convention. It will necessarily be after the passing of bills that establish the principles that govern this convention. What was your second question, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic241x.u18	What about the transmission of documents following the Commission d'accès des documents administratifs?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic241x.u19	Mr President, Mr Colmant will accompany me in committee as he has been one of my ad hoc collaborators through the public procurement that has been concluded. He will give you not only his full report but also all the explanations that go with this report. You will have the opportunity to question him at length and in large about how he has in particular modelled the elements that constitute the result that I announced in the first place, which was communicated on 29 July 2015 and which allowed to form this negotiating solution for the extension of Doel 1 and 2, not only for the fee but also for the nuclear allocation contribution. As regards the price of electricity, two economic elements were raised by two parliamentarians. When you increase the costs of a business, it tends to pass it on to the client and from the moment your hand is not nuanced, it could be struck, in particular by the Constitutional Court, indicating that you are confiscatory. It is therefore necessary to avoid expropriating an enterprise's means of achieving its objectives. The primary objective is the generation of electricity and the balance must be struck so that electricity is produced at an acceptable price because the burden on the company is not confiscating. As far as the return on investment is concerned, we look at the nuclear benefit and, with the investments of youth that increase exploitation in the Tihange 1 agreement, we agreed in the previous legislature that the investor, that is, the shareholder, should be remunerated before we calculate what should be returned to the state. We are therefore taking a margin which will reduce what may be left, because we must see on which price of electricity the results of the Tihange 1 convention have been projected. I will have the opportunity to talk to you about this in detail because I have asked CREG to do a study on this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic241x.u20	Thank you, Madam Minister. You are referring to the Colmant report, but I think that Mr Nollet's request concerned the two elements included in the Commission's decision on access to administrative documents and a table to be attached. Is it possible to have this table transmitted?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic241x.u21	When it is validated by the AFCN, which is currently...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic241x.u22	It is validated as they have marked their agreement (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic241x.u23	There are the royal decrees of 27 September 2015 but, I'm sorry, this painting is in the hands of AFCN.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic241x.u24	No!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic241x.u25	If you want to question Minister Jambon on these issues, you do. We will probably have the opportunity to come back together before you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic241x.u26	Parliament has the last word, but as we are exceeding the time allotted for this debate – which is important, I agree – I would like to ask the four speakers to conclude very briefly.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic241x.u27	Mr. Chair, the minister is looking for every possible argument to avoid achieving the objective of transparency she has set herself. None of them are on the road. The table was given at the time by Mr. Wathelet, not by Mrs. Milquet. Madam Minister, you are no longer doing the part. You refuse to give us this picture on the basis of the fact that the AFCN must first approve it, when it has done so. It is up to you to pass it on to us! It doesn't matter if it's not the final document. Documents that have been agreed upon must be sent to us. This is what the Commission is calling for in the field of access to environmental administrative documents. You read the opinion. What do you have to answer? We must not wait for the final agreement. Either you play transparency or you refuse it. In the first case, you must send us at least these two documents: the table and the agreement as it currently exists. Don't turn around the pot anymore! It lasted long enough last year. You mustn't repeat this cinema!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic241x.u28	Minister, in order to avoid replicating the previous legislature, an effort of transparency is needed. And very quickly! Otherwise, we will again spend a lot of time trying to get documents. Democracy demands that they be visible to parliamentarians and citizens. Then, Mr. Chair, the minister did not answer a series of questions. I am thinking in particular of the urgency of the Council of State. One point is fundamental: unoccupied sites. How much does the State demand in this regard? If the minister cannot answer us for the time being, I would like her to provide us with a written answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic241x.u29	That's how we do it, minister? All right.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic241x.u30	You need to know the amount if you've dealt on $120 million. If you think that this amount represents a gain, you must know the original amount.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic241x.u31	The written response will be transmitted within the next few days.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic241x.u32	Mr. President, no, tomorrow. The Minister worked on this issue throughout July. Members of his firm can also call! We can even get it this afternoon.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic241x.u33	You'll have it tomorrow.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic241x.u34	But you're back at noon with your entire cabinet, Madam Minister! One more little request, Madam Minister. Mr. Colmant will come and explain this to us. He is a brilliant person, but I hope that we will have the documents that he will present to us before the debate because we will not be able to discuss formulas, etc. If he presents them to us directly here in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic241x.u35	We take note of that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic241x.u36	Mr President, I note that, in her response, the minister actually validates and assumes that she has negotiated a tax with a taxpayer. Secondly, I wonder why all these shams in relation to documents that are public, which can be transmitted to us as quickly as possible. May I recall that in 2013 Mr.Wathelet tabled them on the benches of parliament immediately said, immediately did? You know you'll bring them. Why play hide-and-seek with these documents? It's pretty unpleasant.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic241x.u37	Madam Minister, I read in the newspapers that you say that our group is making this discussion a personal one. I read that in the papers. What do I determine? I note that the Minister says she wants to be transparent. Madam Minister, our group is asking you in a normal tone whether you want to make this transparency concrete. You confirm that there is a formal agreement. You just confirmed that. Then you say that you do not wish to give that agreement. In the meantime, I gave the opinion of 7 September to the majority of my fellow Members. Mrs Marghem, it is written in writing that you must deliver those documents, that they are covered by the normal procedures of public access to the administration. You don't want to give it to me. Madam Secretary, now is the time to recapture you. Otherwise there is the same sequence, the same doubt, the same indignation as this spring. Are you prepared to deliver the opinion of the committee responsible at the beginning of this afternoon's session or not? You don't have to do that now. You'll come by later. For a number of things, you're referring to this afternoon. Are you prepared to give that document later, yes or no? If that is so, fantastic, then I will immediately announce that you are doing it in a different way, that you are doing it much better than you did last time. If you do not want to publish it, if you do not want to carry out the advice, I can only conclude that you continue to make the same mistakes.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic241x.u38	In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. A motion for recommendation was tabled by Ms. Karine Lalieux and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiries by Mr Jean-Marc Nollet, Ms Karine Lalieux and Mr Michel de Lamotte and the response of the Minister of Energy, Environment and Sustainable Development, asks the government - to ensure the release of nuclear power by closing Doel 1 and 2 reactors from this year and closing the remaining five reactors by 2025; - to develop without further delay alternatives such as reduced consumption, demand management, energy efficiency, strengthening interconnections with the Netherlands and other neighbouring countries, the development of renewable energy in the North Sea, support for existing gas power plants and the construction of new gas-fired power plants; - to maintain, for reactors under 40 years of age, the nuclear allocation contribution as repeatedly validated by the Constitutional Court, i.e. a basic contribution of EUR 250 million and an additional contribution of EUR 350 million. A reduction corresponding to the unavailability of the nuclear stock due to unforeseen safety reasons may be applied; - to apply, for reactors beyond 40 years, an annual contribution equivalent to at least 70% of the profit margin between, on the one hand, the proceeds from the sale of electricity and, on the other hand, all the actual costs of nuclear producers; - to entrust the CREG with a special task of verifying the revenues and expenses of nuclear producers; - to maintain levies pursuant to the Act of 8 December 2006 on the non-use of production sites in order to increase competition in the electricity production sector; - not to sign any agreement with nuclear producers until it has been approved by the House of Representatives." A motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms Karine Lalieux and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interviews of Mr Jean-Marc Nollet, Ms Karine Lalieux and Mr Michel de Lamotte and the reply of the Minister for Energy, Environment and Sustainable Development, calls on the Government - work on the nuclear exit by shutting down the reactors Objective 1 and 2 this year, and the five remaining reactors by 2025; - to develop without delay alternative solutions including the reduction of consumption, demand management, the increase in energy efficiency, the strengthening of interconnections with the Netherlands and other neighbouring countries, the development of renewable energy in the North Sea, support for existing gas plants and the construction of new gas plants; - for reactors under 40 years of age, maintain the nuclear repartition contribution as repeatedly endorsed by the Constitutional Court, i.e. a basic contribution of EUR 250 million and an additional contribution of EUR 350 million. That contribution may be reduced according to periods during which the nuclear park is unavailable for unforeseen safety reasons; - apply to reactors over 40 years of age an annual contribution corresponding to at least 70% of the profit margin between, on the one hand, the proceeds from the sale of electricity and, on the other hand, the total actual cost of nuclear power producers; - entrust the CREG with a special task of verifying the revenue and costs of nuclear power producers; - maintain the charges imposed by the Act of 8 December 2006 to combat the non-use of a site for the production of electricity by a producer in order to strengthen competition in the electricity production sector; - not to sign any agreement with the nuclear industry until it has been approved by the Chamber of Representatives." A simple motion was tabled by Caroline Cassart-Mailleux, Patricia Ceysens and Len Dierick and Bert Wollants. A simple motion was tabled by Mrs Caroline Cassart-Mailleux, Mr Patricia Ceysens and Mr Leen Dierick and Mr Bert Wollants. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic241x.u39	Colleagues, at the beginning of autumn, the release plan is back on the agenda. We had a long debate a few months ago on the issue of security of supply. We will certainly come back to this issue. In fact, some proposals have been tabled and should be discussed in our committee. Madam Minister, you announced in the media in early September the application of new provisions with respect to the release plan. Yesterday, at the end of the afternoon, we received the text of a royal decree which was approved on 6 October last. I don't know if a ministerial order is being prepared. But if that is the case, I would appreciate it if the text of the draft decree could be forwarded to the committee so that the committee could have all the documents available.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic241x.u40	Mr President, the Royal Decree on the Federal Technical Regulation is already at your disposal. It was signed on 6 October by King Philip and will soon be published. The ministerial decree will be submitted shortly to the Council of State. In so doing, the latter has not yet been able to transmit to me his comments on the second text which follows from the first.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic241x.u41	Would it still not be possible for you to send us the provisional text so that we can have as many elements as possible?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic241x.u42	Could you not pass on the draft that you have communicated to the Council of State?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic241x.u43	I have no objection.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic241x.u44	Even if the Council of State is called upon to comment on this text, by communicating it to us as it stands, we could already have technical data.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic241x.u45	The Council of State may indeed make remarks which we will subsequently include, but I have no objection to it being transmitted to you as it stands.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic241x.u46	In order to save time, this text could be communicated electronically. Otherwise, there is a great risk that many questions will be tabled within a month and that we will have to hold a new debate on the subject. Furthermore, it was agreed that we should conclude our work at 12.30 p.m. and resume it at 2.00 p.m. and continue our exchange of views. I would add that the services of the House have been responsible for reporting on our discussion and that the attached questions on the subject, which have been tabled, are included in the exchange of views.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic241x.u47	Mr President, I shall immediately pass the floor to my staff so that they can present the technical aspects of the discharge plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic241x.u48	Ladies and gentlemen, this is a few slides of what is contained in this release plan. This presentation incorporates both the content of the royal decree and the content of the ministerial decree. If the ministerial decree has not been communicated to you, it will be, without problem. It was adopted pursuant to the Royal Decree and the Council of State did not wish to take a decision on both texts at the same time. As the Royal Order is now validated and submitted for royal signature, the Ministerial Order will follow. All that the two texts contain already appears in these slides. As early as December, the Minister gave the necessary instructions for a recast of the long-standing relief plan, with a royal order of 19 December 2002 and a ministerial order of 3 June 2005. Conditions have changed very much since then, and above all, our network has changed a lot. Based on these findings, a working group has been established with various departments whose expertise is to analyze risk management and conduct emergency planning. This working group has gathered for many meetings, which began in January, the Federal Crisis Centre, DG Energy, which is obviously well aware of the electricity problems, the Walloon Regional Crisis Centre, the Flemish Regional Crisis Centre (it was a first), the Peeters cabinet, the Jambon cabinet, and of course the Marghem cabinet. The working group also participated in Elia and Synergrid. All of the key stakeholders were brought together on a regular basis. The federated entities, through their crisis centres, were able to participate in these sessions and to give priority to all requests from the Regions. Depending on the nature of the discussions, other stakeholders were consulted and participated in these meetings. I am talking about De Croo's office, Mrs Galant's office for rail traffic, I am talking about the IBPT, telephone operators and many others. Thus, all stakeholders, on the basis of impact assessments carried out at the initiative of the three crisis centres, formed the guidelines for this new plan. From the outset, we have limited the application of certain measures for certain users of the network. It's the people who aren't involved in the release plan. Of course, everyone would like to be part of these categories, but you are well aware that if we want to implement a discharge plan, following the recommendations that the ENSO-E is trying to put in place at European level, according to which 45% of the capacity peak must be set up at the level of a discharge plan, we will not achieve it. So the users of networks directly connected to the transmission network are the important industries that are directly connected to the Elia network and which are among those famous interruptible customers. The territory of the Brussels-Capital Region, the city centres of municipalities with less than 50,000 inhabitants were already among the old versions, but we added the city centres of the provincial capitals. In this way, we were certain that the governors had no concern on that side. We have also applied the principle of proportionality very precisely. This is the result of a European directive, which is itself translated into the ENSO-E rules. It was the failure to comply with this rule that characterized the amendment last fall when Mr.Wathelet presented his plan and the plan had to be amended by Ms.Fonck. You will receive a table showing that, for each of the tranches, the percentages have been strictly respected. We oscillate everywhere around 5% (5.1-4.9) depending on the slices examined. This shows that, regardless of the area observed and wherever it is located, all tranches are allocated by 5 per cent, with the exception of the first, tranche 8, where 4 per cent are evenly distributed throughout the country. Thus, this picture alone constitutes the demonstration (...). [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic241x.u49	He should get to you soon. In fact, these are two tables. The first table shows the percentages by tranche. The overall load of the tranche was considered and 5% "about" was removed, says the text. It is not possible to remove exactly the same percentage each time simply because the load also varies. A charge is not constant. So, in each slice, regardless of the size of the megawatt slice, everyone is treated the same way. Only tranche 1 is a little more important but it is also distributed in the same way, it is a little more than 6%. You see this painting appearing on the screen and, if you look at the areas – North-West, North-East, Central, South-West, South-East – that each one is housed on the same sign, which was not the case, you will certainly remember, last year in the first version. This should therefore satisfy the whole of national representation, since all citizens are treated in exactly the same way. In addition to this evolution, which is characterized by an ideal distributivity, we now have a greater deletable power: 5,000 megawatts. Why would you tell me? Of course we do not intend to use it, but as I pointed out at the beginning of my speech, it is a wish of the ENSO-E and it will soon become an obligation. It is for this reason alone that the overall unbreakable power has been increased. We have more possibilities of rotation. We have eight slices but of course only seven are used in this rotation since the first one that contains the frequency relays is used only automatically when a frequency problem arises. Instantly, these frequency relays identify the problem and intervene directly. So we have eight slices of which only seven are used in rotation. In order, eight seven six five four three two; eight seven six five four three two; hence the one for sudden phenomena and the other seven for the risk of shortages. We have obviously made a small change. We've spread out more slices. I guess you've heard of it in the press before. As indicated below, we have spared three main sites: the port of Ghent and the airports of Gosselies and Liège. It is quite obvious that the powers we have taken up to keep these sites outside the scope of the clearance plan have had to be repositioned elsewhere. As a result, some cities or villages that were not affected by the release plan are now affected. But, once again, I repeat that this is a very unlikely prospect. We will return to that in the continuation of the debate earlier. The production stock, the import capacity and the margins we have created should allow us to keep this hypothesis as truly exceptional and in case of a very serious incident which could otherwise come outside our borders. So it's very unlikely. As far as the benefits are concerned, I have already mentioned them, when I showed you the tables: better proportionality by slice between the different areas. You will observe that each time one is at one digit or the other after the comma (5.1 or 4.9). I was also talking about the evolution towards a larger clearance plan. It will be an obligation. It is not yet, but we have already taken a first step. What about the impact of this new release plan on rescue centres? We have taken care to make a significant change in the situation. In the old mill, a few minutes, half an hour or an hour after a discharge, if it happens, we could no longer call the rescue centres. If the batteries on the towers were dead, it was done! This is not so much about people in retirement homes or elsewhere because they have staff and infrastructure where all this is programmed, but rather the very many people, more than 65%, who are "electrically dependent" or "electro-dependent". They are at home and not in institutions. They are less well followed and are likely to suffer painful consequences. We have therefore made it possible for our gsm network to allow the call for rescue services for these people at home by strengthening the park of batteries that equip the towers. This isn't about all the towers. We have called for intensive collaboration between the various operators and the IBPT who have worked and are still working on an operational plan that will ensure communications to the rescue services. This is an important step and this work has been carried out and will serve as a basis for further progress in maintaining an effective network in the event of a problem. Band 8 relates to rail traffic. Some would have liked to have been relieved only for tranche 8 in order to allow this alternative traffic plan which SNCB and Infrabel have developed with great difficulty. This is really a very difficult task: the traction current network has nothing to do with the signalling network, which depends on all small lines, on all small local networks. Having a circulation plan for each of the slices is strictly impossible for Infrabel. You have to understand that. On the other hand, one cannot use the same people and do as some asked and say that it will always be tranche 8 that will be relieved, and after tranche 8, again band 8. This is obviously not possible, if only for the reasons that the European Network of Transmission System Operators for Electricity (ENTSO-E) imposes on us: there must be a rotation, there must be no discrimination, there must be proportionality. Everybody's got to be there. That's how it is. For the 8 finally, since there is very little chance that this will happen, we made a slightly more 8 light slice, around 4%, even a little below, 3.6 or 3.7%. So it has less impact on Infrabel's network, which has allowed them to maintain a minimum rail traffic plan, if we had to trigger a release. As far as the order of activation of the delestages is concerned, in the case of a shortage, it is always the same thing: we start from 8 and we go up to 2, and we start again, we rotate. One question asked: if in 2016 in case of discharge, we activate the tranche 8, in 2019 or in 2020, when there will be a new discharge, it will be the tranche 7 that will be activated? I confess that we have not thought of this case. We just watched year by year. This must be considered over a calendar year, in any case over a winter. We're going from slice 8 and we're going to slice 2. It is only in case of a sudden incident, I remind you of the case of the passage of this ship to Dresden in Germany, which caused a N-1 and which led to a blackout. It's an event that can happen at home, at our neighbours, while causing an incident at home. Our barriers are made up of these frequency relays and therefore the various tools in the R1 and R2 reserves. We continue on the rotation. There's nothing else to say about that. If, really, we were in an impossible situation and had to take off in the morning or in the evening, we would stay on the same slices, we would not change during the day. These are procedural rules, but I do not think that much importance should be attached to them, because these are very unlikely events.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic241x.u50	Minister, would you like to add anything to this presentation?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic241x.u51	Yes, briefly, Mr. President. As my collaborator, Jean Compere - who remains at your disposal for all possible and imaginable technical questions - said, we have been working since December 2014 to change this plan. I have spoken to you many times during the committees which have dealt with this subject. We have made sure that there is respect for international rules, a fair distribution on Belgian territory which is measurable between all areas and between the bands, and that with the work on the means of production to which we shall return, the discharge plan is really considered as an exceptional plan, a kind of emergency plan, the use of which will be very unlikely next winter and the following winters, we hope. In any case, we start with the band 8 which, in the tables you are going to receive, is the band on which, at the margin, we have the least charged. It allows our trains to continue running. This is a priori the first tranche which would, in a very exceptional case, be activated. Despite this, our trains could continue to operate, which is good news.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic241x.u52	I come back for a moment to the request for the ministerial order. During the midday break, is it possible for the secretariat to circulate this draft order electronically, and this will be in favour of the order of business?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic241x.u53	With regard to the request for noontime documents, we know that this is a very technical and legal matter. In the expectations of the documents transmitted to us, we can see that there is an opinion of the CREG and, logically, an opinion of the Council of State. Can the Minister be asked to transmit at noon the contents of the opinion of CREG as well as that of the Council of State?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic241x.u54	This is the opinion on the royal decree?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic241x.u55	Indeed, this is the opinion on the Royal Order since these opinions do not yet exist on the Ministerial Order. We would like to see whether the CREG validates the elements contained in the Royal Decree and, moreover, we would like the opinion of the Council of State since it is known that questions of legal solidity arise. In the past, you yourself have said that he was happy that the discharge plan should not have been activated because it was legally wanking, in your own words. The transmission of the opinion of the Council of State would allow us to see this clearly and to check whether, legally, all this is taking place. Can we have it during the break?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic241x.u56	Certainly, but I would like to draw your attention again to the fact that the ministerial decree is a draft on which the Council of State still has to decide. It is therefore a document in progress.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic241x.u57	I'm talking about the opinion of the CREG.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic241x.u58	Yeah, I get it. You'll get it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic241x.u59	Mr. Chairman, first of all, I thank the minister for sending us these documents. From a methodological point of view...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic241x.u60	From a methodological point of view, I would first like to include colleagues who wish to speak.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic241x.u61	Is it possible to interrupt the meeting and resume it earlier this afternoon?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic241x.u62	We agreed to resume at 2:00 p.m. You want us to stop now?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic241x.u63	No. We can ask questions, but there are some things that will come to us early in the afternoon.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic241x.u64	That is why I wanted to know which colleagues wanted to speak. I see Mrs. Lalieux, Mr. de Lamotte, Mrs. Dierick and Mr. Wollants. We'll meet until 12:30. Of course, colleagues can ask a first set of questions and come back to other points, as we will continue this afternoon.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic241x.u65	Madam Minister, thank you for proposing the new exit plan. In my view, you have learned a bit from the finalisation plan that was drawn up in a hurry last year. This makes a number of things much clearer, especially when we look at rail traffic, a number of large installations and so on. I have a few more questions to ask. We are talking about a fixed number of megawatts per disk that is switched off. Does this also include the necessary monitoring, so that it is always about about that amount of power? After all, we are more and more engaged in demand-side management and such, which can also offer an absolute benefit in terms of scarcity management. What evolution is expected to be seen within the disks? Are they being re-evaluated at regular intervals, so that the necessary megawatts are effectively released at the time of switching off a particular zone? A second aspect is the fact that Flemish minister Turtelboom urged him to consider whether and to what extent the decentralised production could possibly be removed from the switch-off plan, or to at least take as much account as possible. I haven't heard much about that. It might be useful to take a look at how that works. Next, it is also important that the new exit plan sends the necessary instructions to all actors so that they can fully prepare for a possible shutdown. Have any important steps been taken in this respect in relation to the last time? Has that part been further developed, so that everyone affected by a cut-off, including the municipalities that have an important role in it, is optimally prepared to get to work on it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic241x.u66	Mr President, I thank the minister's staff for their explanation. First of all, I would like to put the whole issue of the recovery plan into context. It should always be remembered that it was the unavailability of Doel 3 and Tihange 2 since March 2014, as well as the sabotage of Doel 4, which brought out the recovery plan, which dates back to 2005, of the drawers of the previous government and of the latter. It is the instability and non-reliability of nuclear power in our country that makes us talk about a plan of relief. It is always important to put this into context because this government's policy is the "all-to-nuclear" and there is therefore an antinomy. Madam Minister, according to the latest studies by CREG, which came out last week, it appears today that the risk of shortage has been poorly assessed by Elia. Even if this risk is questioned, I think we need an effective and effective clearance plan. I would also like to welcome the fact that you have been working to change this discharge plan because one year's parliamentary work has shown that there is an imbalance and that it is time to review this plan. There are also significant improvements that have been achieved by all services through consultation. What I regret - like the convention and the exit of 29 July, which we have just mentioned - is that you came out in the press on 17 September, when the release plan is determined by a ministerial decree of 2005. Legally, the terms of the release plan are contained in a ministerial decree of 2005 and the legal basis is contained in a royal decree of 2002. You mentioned the two documents. You leave on September 17 without the royal decree being published in the Moniteur and with a ministerial decree which has not yet been passed in the Council of State. This still generates some legal uncertainty, especially since the SPF Economy site already includes maps, indications. However, if the Council of State questions certain elements, this means that the official website disseminates incorrect and legally invalid information. It's kind of "sell the bear's skin before you kill it." Of course, this plan was expected. Was it three or four weeks away with significant legal certainty, i.e. the Council of State, publication in the Monitor, the ministerial decree? I ask myself the question of having to surround this point with a global legal uncertainty.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic241x.u67	Mrs Lalieux, this was an urgent request from the governors, which had been communicated in full and in full detail as early as 2 September. And the concertation committee, which emerged from the sixth reform of the State, had met the previous day. This was part of the requests to communicate widely. That already answers a question which has been asked and which I will come back to later on. But this explains it! Nevertheless, I understand you. Sometimes we have oppositions because of this and I like to deliver definitive things and you see what this is about as a debate on transparency or not. In this case, I have been required to communicate because the governors have to put in place, in a very practical way, in a very large territory, with the communes, an entire organisation that has not allowed us to keep things going until the end.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic241x.u68	It is true that you have worked, but perhaps we should have speeded things up so that it could be done in the legal rules, in the rules of art.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic241x.u69	I fully agree with you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic241x.u70	Perhaps it was necessary to give all the documents to the governors without putting them on an official website.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic241x.u71	It wasn't possible. Too many people knew about it. If you saw the number of people who worked on this release plan. Too many people knew about it. There was a need for uniform information for everyone, allowing governors and communes to work.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic241x.u72	The minister already had an explanation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic241x.u73	I thank you for the accuracy even if my regret persists.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic241x.u74	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic241x.u75	Mr. Nollet already had the ministerial decree and the royal decree, so it was good to publish it on the SPF Economy website, is that what you mean?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic241x.u76	Mr. Nollet is always well informed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic241x.u77	Otherwise Ecolo would have communicated it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic241x.u78	Secondly, there will be questions, but I wanted to integrate this into the context of the relief plan. The CREG has published an ex post evaluation. It is the role of CREG to make evaluations. Here, she asks essential questions about Elia's methodology in calculating the risk of shortage, which, I would remind you, leads to the relief plan. According to this study published by CREG, Elia lacks transparency and reliability and the data used by Elia are perfectable. This leads the regulator to find that Elia overestimated the risk of shortage in her calculations of strategic reserve size. I see eyes rising up in heaven – not you, but your neighbor. I will return to the Minister's statements earlier. I am simply saying that it is important for the country that public authorities have a reliable tool to analyse the state of electricity supply in our country. Without reliable tools and without good information, it is difficult to take the right steps afterwards. I think everyone can agree on this. And I can understand that Elia is precautionous in her way of assessing the risk of shortage. On the one hand, we have Elia, who is a publicly traded company. On the other hand, we have a regulator who is at the service of Parliament and the government. I'm not saying everything Elia does is bad because this company is listed on the stock market. But if Elia is wrong and exaggerates the needs of the strategic reserve, it is not Elia who will pay the bill, it is the consumer. The strategic reserve is very expensive. I therefore find it entirely legitimate for CREG to carry out a study and assess the needs and risks of shortages so that there is an arbitrator who controls Elia in the interests of this country, consumers and our businesses. I don't think it's right that we pack it unarguably, with a back of our hand, and even quite violently, saying that it's Elia who's right. That is not enough for Parliament. It is the work of CREG to do an ex post study and an evaluation. Madam Minister, you decided to reject the CREG analysis without further trial and found that Elia's analysis was perfect. Has the Energy Branch analyzed the CREG report or is it your firm or yourself? Do you not think that the federal government must play an arbitrator role? I didn't hear her. We'll invite him. Does it have the capacity to play this role? We discussed your administration at the time of your policy note. We know the linear cuts applied in our jurisdictions by the federal government. You told us that DG Energy was under-supported and that you were going to fight for it to be better equipped. There would be only 1.5 full-time equivalents to work on energy in DG Energy. Was there a comparative analysis between the analyses by Elia and CREG on the problem of shortage? Is it true that there are only 1.5 full-time equivalents working on energy?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic241x.u79	Ms. Lalieux, I have been questioned three times (twice on the radio and once on television) on the plan of relief or, more precisely, on the assessment of our needs for the winter, according to Elia and the CREG. On these occasions, I didn't have time to explain myself. Besides, you know that I am not used to content Parliament with speaking to the press. I hope, moreover, that I will be able to satisfy him this afternoon when I have the opportunity to answer your question at length and in large. That said, there is an explanation that does not satisfy me fully. I'm joining your analysis. I have therefore convened DG Energy, Elia and CREG to discuss the various aspects very shortly.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic241x.u80	I understand that the press can be criticized and that we can have a sense of frustration because of the lack of time given to us.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic241x.u81	I'm not criticizing the press. A five-minute format is not enough. I would like to point out that you have already far exceeded the five minutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic241x.u82	We are all frustrated when we do not have the opportunity to speak properly in the press. But in that case, you made a statement. He could very well have understood ten pages.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic241x.u83	In this press release, I recalled – I draw your attention here to the fact that a press release never includes ten pages – that the CREG study mentions other elements that had not been sufficiently highlighted, which I will explain later.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic241x.u84	In that case, I will resume your statement to focus on the question that has been swept away with a back of my hand. It is on this subject that I have expressed myself, through tweets, which have the merit of being short, about your attitude about a regulator. I will not say that I would like you to have a meeting with your firm, but it would be good if we could set up a group of experts with CREG, DG Energy, the Federal Office of Planning and specialized academics to monitor Elia's approach to this strategic reserve. Mr President, I have asked for the hearing of CREG, Elia and DG Energy in Parliament. With regard to the relief plan, I welcome the work that has been done. This will no doubt put an end to the controversy over the imbalance contained in the relief plan. It is important to ensure balance between the different territories, it is a question of solidarity. The Walloon Region has set up an interuniversity committee to analyse the fairness of the new relief plan. He requested a series of information that he had not received, including the precise list of posts and the discharge powers. Can you pass on this kind of information, minister?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic241x.u85	We've given a lot of information. You're talking about the last request that was made. A great deal of information has been provided through Mrs Sigrid Jourdain to this inter-university committee. I would like to remind you that I am open to all the proposals that can be made, whether at the federal level, at the regional level or at any level. The Walloon Region, the Brussels Region and the Flemish Region validated this plan, when it was presented, after an intercabinet, to the Concertation Committee following the sixth reform on 16 September. Beyond this validation, we continue the work. It is in this context that my collaborator, who will answer you on this specific point, has communicated at least ten documents to this interuniversity group. My co-worker's interlocutor is Mrs. Jourdain. I shall pass the floor to my colleague to respond to this last point.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic241x.u86	Mr President, I wanted to develop my speech completely.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic241x.u87	If the government wishes to respond directly to you, I have no objection.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic241x.u88	Mrs Lalieux, I am trying to answer you directly on essential points.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic241x.u89	The will is to provide quick and concrete responses.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic241x.u90	Mr. President, it's very simple. My interlocutors were Ms. Jourdain and Mr. Paul Dewil, the head of the Wallonia Regional Crisis Centre. I met them at Mr. Magnette's office. We discussed the various points together. In conclusion, Ms. Jourdain requested that, for each point of the territory, by administrative entity, she have the list of posts which have been removed and which have not been removed. A steering group (SteerCo), which meets on a monthly basis, brings together DG Energy, Elia, Synergrid, Jambon, Peeters and the Minister. At his last meeting, which I unfortunately was unable to attend, he decided that communicating these elements now was not appropriate. We have presented two tables which took time and show that the load of discharge has been distributed fairly and proportionally throughout the territory. If I superimpose this release plan on other units that are administrative in nature, I will not necessarily achieve the same results. Important precision: this plan is designed on electric areas. Our network results from the juxtaposition of small networks that, over time, have been aggregated. If we analyze the results we achieve uniformly across the territory and examine them at the level of a municipality, they may vary. At that point, if we go in this direction, it is a little unnecessary to provoke discussions, since this is not going to prove anything. One thing is demonstrated and certain, that everyone, throughout the territory, is housed in the same sign. If we now try to twist these figures to a different territorial scale, we may see differences, but that will fuel unnecessary controversy. Therefore, the SteerCo (Steering Committee), which is composed of people from the North, the South and the Centre and all political opinions – I do not know the political opinions of the various representatives of the administrations that are part of this SteerCo – felt that this was not appropriate now and that this had been completed, having given as many elements as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic241x.u91	This provoked a reaction from Mr. Nollet.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic241x.u92	In order to "empty" this point and not to have to go back to it, Mr President, I find it a bit paradoxical that a body considers, when a constituent entity of a country asks for information, that it should not be given it. Why does SteerCo refuse to pass them on? I'll go ahead with some numbers and you'll tell me if they're correct. With regard to the North-South distribution, by removing the central region and taking your North-South divides, we are 39.5 in terms of total unbreakable power in the South and 38 in the North. Is that right?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic241x.u93	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic241x.u94	For me, the gap is 1.5%, but the problem is not so much here as in the Central Region. It is for this reason that Wallonia is asking for it and that the SteerCo does not want to give it. Where you still need to see clearly, it is on the Brabant (Brabant Wallon and Flemish Brabant) and Brussels. I would therefore like you to give me the figures. If you do not have them in power, give them at least in number of loaded cabins to the Flemish Brabant on one side and the Walloon Brabant on the other.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic241x.u95	Indeed, having the general data is interesting, if only by province and by slice: in terms of peak power, in terms of the number of megawatts removed. These figures existed last year. The purpose of the request is to consider that the character is truly balanced and that this can be seen. You're telling us that a working group did analyse things. An audit can be carried out in this Parliament. I particularly insist on obtaining these figures.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic241x.u96	It is to be regretted that this request comes just before this commission, when at the level of the representatives of the Walloon Region, the head of his crisis centre took part in some 20 meetings, approved them each and gave his opinion on dozens of occasions and did not, at any time, formulate any reservations. Suddenly, we ask for something else, after combing the first two paintings that we have communicated and on which we have found nothing. Mr. de Lamotte, you talked about peak power. We took the average power in the upper range absorbed by each of the slices. We placed ourselves under the same conditions for all the slices and for the five blocks. We've calculated a percentage. Cabins were taken in such a way as to reach 5%, 6% for Band 1 and slightly less than 4% for Band 8. We came to the result. This does not mean that if I look at the municipal or provincial level, I will have the same results. I already know that the North-South distribution is balanced and that if I translate it into the five blocks, I have the same balance. At the very least, much better than what previously existed. Let there be a difference in the two provinces of Brabant, that is! Did you consider the Brabant to include Brussels? I can tell you that in Walloon Brabant, they don't complain. I went to Wavre where I met the services of the province, the commune, etc. They're very satisfied. They don't complain. So it's very curious that we're complaining now. I would remind you that the unit we considered not corresponding to the provinces of Brabant or to any administrative unit, we considered the Central region. We have five blocks: North-West, North-East, Central, South-West, South-East. It's our only vision. She's a-linguistic. We took the Central Region. In the Centre region, it is possible that there are proportionally more loaded cabins in the Walloon Brabant than in the Flemish Brabant. But there is also Brussels in this Central region. We consider the whole of an area. By taking all these units, we arrive at a balanced distribution. No comments had been made so far.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic241x.u97	With regard to requests for documents and information, this is an exchange of views between Members of Parliament and the Federal Minister responsible for the matter. There may not be an exchange of information between regional cabinet representatives and federal MPs. It makes sense here, if there is a request for information...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic241x.u98	I'll take it. I'm just gonna re-examine the SteerCo.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic241x.u99	My request was related to the provinces, I did not request a response by commune. I would like to say, Mr Compere, that if it comes only now, it is that the point is entered now. We've had to improve the release plan for several months, and it's coming now. I guess it took a lot of work, I agree, but it only comes now. As the issue is now on the agenda, we should not be told that we should not ask for clarifications and explanations. You have to keep it right. I would point out that last year we responded very quickly to a possible imbalance between the North and the South. The ministerial decree we have asked for is not yet here because it is on the Council of State. Maybe this could have happened before the holidays.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic241x.u100	We must not let things be said that the facts contradict! When it is said that there is no cutting, no linguistic look, excuse me! But if you're north-easter north-wester and you're comparing to south-easter south-wester, you're using a linguistic divide! It makes sense and it's normal. This had been considered in the past. So don't say there's no language look! Moreover, you say that this cutting is balanced and you welcome it! But I see a 1.5% gap between North and South. On the other hand, in the Central Region, for which I do not have the figures, I will submit my assumptions to you. You will be able to validate them or not. In the Central Region, for Walloon Brabant, 78% of cabins are in the plan. For the Flemish Brabant, 32% of the cabins are in the plan. Are my figures in the right order of magnitude?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic241x.u101	I'll check with the SteerCo. We will go back to the figures and, as the minister will say, we will consult these figures and verify what you are communicating. But I repeat, this does not reflect an imbalance in all the areas covered by the Royal Decree and the Ministerial Decree. We have not positioned ourselves at this level.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic241x.u102	Mr President, I think the minister really needs to be absent and I will ask my three specific questions later.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-08-54-commissie-ic241x.u103	Colleagues, we will resume our work at 2 p.m.
