ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-08-54-plenair-ip026x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-08-54-plenair-ip026x.u2	The President (in front of the Standing Assembly): Ladies and gentlemen, With dismay we have taken note of the attack that took place yesterday morning at the headquarters of the weekly magazine Charlie Hebdo in Paris. This repulsive act of terror has cost the lives of no less than 12 people, including eight journalists, two police officers, a cleaner and a visitor. That much cowardice only provokes deep contempt. It's always a tragedy to let someone live. Words are therefore too short when so many lives were abruptly and willingly destroyed. The research is now in full swing, the spotlights of the media are fully focused on the drama. Authorities are making speeches. In addition, we are in the first place filled with mourning and sorrow, and there are misunderstandings and indignations. This tragedy brutally confronts us with the need to remain extremely vigilant when it comes to the values that form the basis of a modern democracy. Freedom of expression must be cherished and defended. In the meantime, we cannot deny reality. What we believe in with the deepest conviction is threatened: our freedom. In the face of this blind violence, which involves logics that go beyond us, it is up to all men of good will to give decisive priority to dialogue, understanding and cooperation in order to chart the paths of a world that is more fraternal, more solidarity and more human. Without that, what we are doing here, in this place par excellence of democracy, would not make sense. Last night, I addressed to the French Ambassador our heartfelt condolences and conveyed to him, on behalf of our Assembly, our compassion for the families of the victims. I have also asked him to convey to the representatives of the French people our expressions of support and empathy.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-08-54-plenair-ip026x.u3	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday a barbaric act was committed in France. With Charlie Hebdo, 12 people were killed because they signed caricatures. We are shocked, deguised, furious, but above all overwhelmed by an immense sorrow. In these sad times, we think primarily of the victims, their wives, children, family and relatives. Yesterday, on behalf of the Belgian people, I expressed our condolences to President François Hollande and to all the French. Indeed, it is a collective mourning. It's the mourning of all comedians. It is the mourning of the great family of journalists. It is the mourning of the French, but beyond the borders, it is the mourning of all the democrats. It is the mourning of all women, of all men committed to the values of freedom and tolerance, of all those who enjoy it or of all those who are still deprived of it. We have the chance to live in a free country. We're lucky to have a free press. Freedom of the press is a sacred right. It is the right to criticize, to challenge, to indignation, to blame, to condemn. It is the right to laugh and it is also the right to laugh. But this right has a price. Journalists all over the world die regularly because they are expensively defending this right. For all this, journalists have the right to our gratitude and admiration. The attack on those journalists is attacking all of us. Our humanist values and our freedoms are under threat. The barbaric act yesterday in Charlie Hebdo's buildings was a terrorist attack. It was a cold-blooded, calculated and deadly act, reminiscent of the tragic events at the Jewish Museum in Brussels. As in Paris, it was a tragic act of fanatics. However, it is just that fanaticism that Charlie Hebdo has always fought. "Charlie Hebdo" died like a hero. He never gave in. The journalists knew what risk they were running. Since the commotion around the cartoons they were often threatened with death. Yet they haven't stopped their struggle. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, the honour of our democracies is the freedom to believe or not to believe. This fundamental freedom must be fully guaranteed. More than ever, we must reject all forms of amalgam. We must fight, without mercy, all forms of extremism and terrorism. More than ever before, I want to appeal to the gathering of all the Democrats. We can't let them intimidate us. All democrats must stand up now. We must give no place or influence and do no encore to hate preachers and terrorists. More than ever, we must stand shoulder to shoulder in order not to give terror a chance. Ladies and gentlemen, we will not be intimidated. All democrats must stand and fight together the sowers of hatred and terror. We all have to stick together so we don't give the terror a chance to settle down.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-08-54-plenair-ip026x.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that we observe a moment's silence for reflection and memory of the victims.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-08-54-plenair-ip026x.u5	Ladies and gentlemen, we have agreed, and I have informed all the groups that we would address all the questions relating to the attack in Paris to three ministers. We shall do so for once from the Chair. Mr Maingain has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-08-54-plenair-ip026x.u6	Mr President, I have introduced an issue which has been directed towards the Minister of Justice; in fact, it is also related to yesterday's tragedy in Paris. I would ask to be able to join the Prime Minister's series of speeches on topical issues, as all groups speak on this subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-08-54-plenair-ip026x.u7	I'm going to ask for the presence of the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-08-54-plenair-ip026x.u8	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we have just observed a minute's silence here in Parliament, but it is now our duty to speak. Ladies and gentlemen, the attack in Paris was an act of terror against defenceless people, but the attack in Paris was mainly an attack against our values, and that was precisely in the cradle of the lighting ideals, of liberté, égalité and fraternité. The attack deliberately targeted journalists and cartoonists, people who rely daily on freedom of expression, a foundation of our democracy, because they question status, power and authority. And that is good, because status, power and authority must always be subject to criticism, to scepticism, because that is precisely what gives them their legitimacy. Colleagues, terrorism of all kinds has a purpose, it aims to destabilise our society, to provoke fear, to install some sort of collective paranoia, precisely to undermine those fundamental freedoms. Yesterday it was about the freedom of the press, a cowardly attack on the media to intimidate the press. We must not fall into the trap, because let us never stop signing, let us never stop coming on the streets, let us never give in to our rights and our freedoms. The only correct answer we have to give is one of more openness, of more democracy, of more freedom. So not revenge, but answers with our own values. Prime Minister, we are shocked, but fear is a very poor advisor. And we should not be naive, there is a problem with radicalism in our society and society must answer that. That is why I have following questions to you and to your government. Yesterday there was a meeting of the Security Council and I would have liked to know what additional measures you will take to ensure the safety of our citizens. My second question concerns this morning's conciliation committee. You've been in contact with the states. What initiatives will they take? The Länder also have very important powers in terms of prevention, detection and aftercare. Thirdly, your coalition agreement contains a number of passages on radicalisation and the fight against terrorism. Do you have any plans to accelerate the implementation of those passages? Prime Minister, I look forward to your answers with interest.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-08-54-plenair-ip026x.u9	Mr. Chair, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, there are days when it is more pleasant and less sad to go up to the gallery. Today, I feel a deep emotion. First of all, an emotion towards the people, loosely murdered; these people were journalists, police officers who carried out their mission, that is, to some, to inform the population, for others, to ensure security. Secondly, an emotion towards the families and relatives of these victims. Also a great emotion towards the members of the professions concerned. Finally, a great emotion at the announcement of the immense popular gatherings organized in various cities, whether in France or in our country. Let me only regret today that some are already arguing: they would like to break this unity that has emerged and deny the slogan that "we would not all be Charlies". Let me therefore regret this aspect of the tragedy. I would like to say with force and conviction, as the Prime Minister pointed out in his words of tribute, that the time is at the gathering, the time is at unity, the time is not at stigmatization. Every time you fight against radicalism and extremism, whenever you have to participate in a fight to defend our democratic rights, we will be at your side in this fight. I will therefore not enter into controversy by starting political contests in this rostrum: the time is too grave. I will simply repeat our full commitment to the defence of our rights, to the fight against radicalism and extremism and to the pursuit of actions that we wish to see implemented. Indeed, with Robert Badinter, who spoke extensively yesterday on French antennae, we believe that beyond grief and pity, the duty of justice is enshrined. For us, it's essential. French services have been at work for a long time. We believe it is important for justice to be done in this case and for Belgium to be able to take full account of the important reforms to be carried out. As such, I would like to ask you a number of questions. What steps have you taken? Has the level of alert been increased or not? It seems that you would have selected some particular places. Can you tell us more? What are the results of the Consultation Committee? You made a strong statement of unity and gathering at this committee level. I would like you to highlight all the measures that you decided at this committee's meeting on this subject. I would like you to give us the timing of the reforms envisaged in the government declaration to combat extremism, jihadism and radicalism. Earlier this week, you mentioned the establishment of the National Security Committee before the end of January. Shouldn't it be activated faster? What is the current role of the bodies that have already been set up? I am thinking in particular of the Syrian task force which, according to our information, has met once since the installation of the government in December. Is it not appropriate to bring it together, since it includes all the services which are supposed to ensure better coordination, better exchange of information and better prevention of phenomena? I would like you to give us the timing and role of these various bodies, which had been set up and which were working rather well. Allow me to repeat all our emotion and sadness, because it is that of an entire country, of all the European democratic countries. And this magnificent momentum of people who spontaneously reunited denies all these slogans, according to which people would be selfish, folded on themselves and focused on their own affairs. It was an immense boost of solidarity and generosity that emerged yesterday. Through our policy, I would like to be able to give reason to all those people who met last night. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-08-54-plenair-ip026x.u10	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, there are moments for debate, moments for controversy, and there are moments for unity. This unit of democrats is the strongest response to barbarism. This unity is necessary for the families of the victims, in their deep sadness, in their disarray, to feel that the fight for freedom of expression waged by their murdered relatives continues. This unity is essential to claim and defend the right to live in a society where freedom is a cardinal value. Prime Minister, what you said yesterday, after the Ministerial Committee on Intelligence and Security, and today in this chamber, we share them. We will be at your side so that the greatest firmness is to be put against the enemies of our freedoms because a democracy is not only defended with words and values. We will be at your side so that this firmness does not spoil panic, fear and amalgam. Robert Badinter, former French Keeper of Seals, said yesterday that beyond grief and pity, anger and indignation, we had to reject any political trap that would ignite hatred between democrats, regardless of their political, philosophical or religious ideal. Mr President, those who lost their lives were targeted because they symbolized, as far as the police are concerned, the security of the country, and for journalists and cartoonists, freedom of press, expression, criticism and even provocation. We must repeat to all journalists who are mourning today that for us their freedom is sacred. Maryse, the wife of illustrator Wolinski, said that he had fallen into the field of honour of his profession, that there was a war against freedom. And this war, we're going to win it. Ladies and gentlemen, in the face of violence, fanaticism, narrow-mindedness, hatred from terrorists and barbarians, we must stand together and gather together. I call for a genuine national pact which, beyond this forum, together with other governments and parliaments, together with associations, further strengthens our common foundation and struggles assiduously against radicalism and violence. Democracy has been desecrated. We count on you for an answer to the measure of this barbarism. And that's what we'd like to hear from you this afternoon too. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-08-54-plenair-ip026x.u11	Mr President, Prime Minister, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Ioanour est plus fort que la haine. I think that cartoon was very clear. At present, only silence, solidarity and, above all, great sympathy for the victims, their friends, their families, the French people and all democrats throughout the world are appropriate. We are shocked, angry and disgusting today. In addition to that silence, there is a great deal of indignation. We condemn this barbaric act in the strongest possible ways. Such barbarism does not belong in our society. Freedom of expression is not by chance one of the basic values in our democracy. After all, society can only function properly when there is dialogue between opinions. The attack on this was an attack on all of us and is therefore unacceptable. But we must beware of the answer to that. We must be careful not to make the same mistake. Responding to radicalisation is not a solution. Let us look for a way to defend our democratic values. Let us disagree, that is the basis. Let the press be critical and remain, writing and drawing, and remind us of mistakes and things that cannot be done. Let us, above all, here in Parliament and beyond, look for dialogue to defend our democratic values together. Freedom, equality, solidarity, unis pour la démocratie. The dignity with which the French people expressed their indignation yesterday deserves respect, defence and imitation. I therefore ask you, Prime Minister, to do everything in your power to enable this dialogue to continue, the dialogue in the defence of our democratic values, without compromises. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-08-54-plenair-ip026x.u12	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, as the previous speakers have rightly pointed out, our focus is on the victims, their families and relatives. They're heroes, heroes-journalists, heroes-police officers, heroes-guardians and heroes-cleaners, heroes from all communities. There's been a line crossed, not for the first time. A border has been crossed for a long time. We feel threatened in our security: a few months ago in Brussels, yesterday in Paris, where tomorrow or the day after? Yes, we feel threatened in our fundamental values and our fundamental rights and freedoms. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, we feel threatened with freedom of the press and freedom of expression. We often disagree. This does not always make our lives as simple, but every human being must also be able to accept disturbing differences of opinion, even shocking differences of opinion. No ideology, no religion justifies touching the integrity of man and society. Every ideology worthy of name, every religion protects people. There must be no fear in our response. Fear is always a bad counselor. Our reaction must not be to capitulate. Our response must not be one of an absolute army and police state that would make the daily lives of the vast majority of people, of all races, states and beliefs that mean well to our society impossible or fundamentally curtailed. But we must not be blind to the growing extremism either. Nor should we be blind to violent radicalism. We condemn any violent radicalism. We will defend our values radically, with all the democratic means, precisely in order to reduce tensions in our society. Prime Minister, your coalition agreement contains clear passages on the fight against terrorism. Some asked questions last night about the fact that the threat level 2, the average threat level, was not raised. The experts will undoubtedly have objective reasons for this. Can you give them to us? The coalition agreement rightly provides for an integrated approach, including consultation with the Länder. That took place this morning. What conclusions were drawn there? The coalition agreement provides for consultation with civil society and consultation with religious leaders. All groups, directly or indirectly involved, must reject any violence without compromise, and they must continue to do so. Your coalition agreement also refers to support for local authorities to detect terrorism prematurely. Have any steps been taken to this end? There are also, of course, security measures in the areas of criminal law, administrative law and governance, inter alia, to speed up the monitoring of returned fighters and to adapt or, if necessary, speed up certain criminal legislation. What measures can be speeded up in order to do what is imperative without panic and balance? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-08-54-plenair-ip026x.u13	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is appropriate to recall what is undoubtedly the most famous sense of freedom of expression, namely that this freedom of expression applies not only to information or ideas which are favourably received or which are considered innocent or indifferent, but also to those which shock, alarm or hurt the State and other groups of the population. That is a sentence from the well-known judgment of the Court of Human Rights in Handyside against the United Kingdom in 1976. Since then, the European Court has repeated this sentence hundreds of times. The Court adds the reason: "This is how it wants pluralism, tolerance of spirit and openness, without which a democratic society cannot exist." We must be aware that any interference in freedom of expression in such a violent way is affecting the very essence of democracy. There were not only 12 deaths yesterday, 12 bullets were fired yesterday, right in the heart of democracy. It must be clear that violence in general, terrorism and violent jihadism, are contrary to our fundamental values. What happened yesterday is a bit of the 9/11 of freedom of the press and of freedom of expression. We must not be naive: events will undoubtedly have consequences and for a long time to come. It is almost certain that there will be some form of self-censorship. How much courage should one not have as a cartoonist to dare to publish a drawing of the prophet now? Not only censorship, but also such self-censorship is incompatible with democracy. That is why I would like to refer to Article 17 of the European Convention on Human Rights, which bans activities that violate human rights, but also imposes a positive obligation on all Member States to take measures to protect democracy. That is the idea that democracy must be resilient. Hence my questions to you. The coalition agreement contains a number of passages on radicalisation. When and when will they enter into force? What about the National Security Council and the announced integrated security policy? I look forward to your answer. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-08-54-plenair-ip026x.u14	Mr President, Prime Minister, yesterday, like the entire national community, every member of this House was struck by emotion, shocked by this indiscriminate violence, shocked by the announcement of the assassination of twelve people in Paris, as was the case during the attack on the Jewish Museum in Brussels and, even before yesterday, during the one in Istanbul. Yesterday, we attacked France, Paris, Charlie Hebdo. They were police officers on the floor. They were reporters. Who, more than they do, embodies this value of freedom to which we are so attached? It was by defending this freedom that they died. Very clearly, we want to attack our values. Some have decided to destroy them. Some have decided to destroy what we are by declaring war. We will therefore have to fight with the entire national community, with our best allies, against these Islamists, against obscurantism. It is these Muslims, by our side, who will fight against what they have repeatedly stated that we cannot use their name. Beyond this national community, which must rise up in the face of this indiscriminate violence, we, as politicians, must overcome emotion. The departures to Syria of hundreds of Belgians have helped us to open our eyes more. We have already shown more realism and firmness in the previous government. We were not surprised to learn – you repeated it again on Monday – that your government had decided to place the fight against radicalism and terrorism at the top of its priorities. Today, we must take even stronger action. We will, of course, be waiting to hear from you about the rapid holding of the National Security Council meeting with which you can implement these strong policies in the fight against radicalism and terrorism, as provided for in the government agreement. Of course, we want to hear from you about the initiative taken to work closely with the Regions, regardless of the majorities in these regions, to work together against radicalism. We would also like to hear from you about the initiatives you have taken by bringing together the College of Intelligence and Security again this noon. Finally, we would also like to hear from you about a fundamental element that is collaboration, European and international solidarity, because, like our neighbours, we are targeted. As has been said, we must naturally stick together and work together. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-08-54-plenair-ip026x.u15	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday's attack on Charlie Hebdo in Paris was a repulsive act, deliberately and with military precision carried out on a symbol of freedom of expression, a magazine that uses satire to show the world a mirror. It is an attack on the foundations of our democracy, on our integrity. Our society must resist the hatred, incomprehension and polarisation on which terrorism tarts and which is its breeding ground. Hoping is already the great mass of reactions, worldwide and across all religions and nationalities. And rightly so. The perpetrators of such attacks make no distinction in their victims, not in Europe, not in Syria, anywhere worldwide. In addition to the cartoonists and the editors of Charlie Hebdo, the two agents who guarded the editors died yesterday. One of them was wounded and was coldly executed on the street. He begged in French and Arabic for his life. Ahmed Marabet was his name. He was 42 years old and a member of the police union. He stood guard to help defend Voltaire's slogan. I loathe what you say, but I will defend you with my life to say it. He bought it with his life and unfortunately he wasn't alone. The forces that stood before him and all the others were well prepared and ruthless. Against such atrocities, we as a society can only emphasize our humanity, send our sympathy to all the victims and their neighbors, to help the fathers and mothers, who, day after day, try to protect their children from the poison of radicalisation, express our solidarity with all the victims of attacks, wherever in the world, in the heart of the Middle East, as well as Australia and Madrid. Ladies and gentlemen, this is an excellent time, not to respond to extremism with extremism and not to fall into the trap of the escalation that is taking place for us today. Jens Stoltenberg, former Prime Minister of Norway, stated after the attacks on Oslo and Utoya that the response to violence is even more democracy, even more humanity. But never naivety. I fully agree with that. We cannot return the deadly victims, but we can avoid future victims. That is our job as politicians. Mr Prime Minister, many questions have already been asked today, but I would like to make this one very clear. Following the attack at the heart of the values we all stand for, I would like to ask you how you will not only strengthen the security of our citizens, but also prevent polarisation, reach out and strengthen dialogue. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-08-54-plenair-ip026x.u16	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there is no word to condemn yesterday's writing of Charlie Hebdo. On my behalf and on behalf of our party, I extend my condolences to the bereaved families. To all the victims, to the families, to the knowledge, but above all to all the democratic actors who expressed themselves yesterday through these thousands of rallies in France, Belgium and throughout the world, we express our firm condemnation of these acts. Today, we must reflect on the solutions that we can bring to this type of situation. I am a product of this generation of Charb, Wolinski, Cabu, those who made these first drawings that made us reflect on the society in which we live, that feeling of freedom which, to my liking, sometimes went too far, that reflection they had on society to always say out loud what we think, never silence. It is this state of mind that we must seize to tackle this debate calmly, this debate on our responsibility to respond to the incredible challenge of yesterday's massacre in Paris. Prime Minister, the priority must be to find the perpetrators of these horrific acts. So, are the Belgian authorities doing everything possible to help the French authorities get their hands on the perpetrators of this barbarism? Today, we must be careful not to get into the game in which these barbarians, these terrorists want to take us. A game that is to polarize society, one community against another. An important responsibility of politicians, associations and civil society is not to get into this game. In this sense, I would really like to encourage everyone to draw inspiration from the reactions of the Norwegian authorities when they were confronted with the massacre perpetrated by Mr Breivik. Twenty-four hours after the events, the Prime Minister of Norway made a clear observation that the political community and the civil community should respond in a mature, united and democratic way to the challenges that all of these terrorists are putting to us today. Moreover, it was also against these two camps, against this formation of a polarization of society, that Charb himself insurged. He told us again last June: "It is very important to me, once and for all, that we do not mix these jihadists with Muslims." Today, it is this state of mind that we must draw inspiration from to counter this very important threat to democratic law. It is also in that sense that we must join forces today to go for solidarity, to counter polarisation. It is also in that sense that I truly regret the fact that certain political forces, such as Bart De Wever yesterday, cannot resist demonstrating that the Labour Party was partly responsible for what is happening today. Please let us put that aside. Please do not let us play political games with what is happening today. I think it is very important that there is cohesion today, that we can think together about what we should do and not play political games to show that the left is responsible for the situation today. That is why we must not go into the logic of the struggle or the war between civilizations. Don't let us take that from you. Let us not claim that one community bears more responsibility than another for the situation today. Today it is important to show solidarity. It is also important to take concrete action. Prime Minister, you know that you will receive our support for measures that need to be taken. We cannot allow hundreds of young people from Syria to return here without doing anything. However, let us be careful that our own freedoms are not compromised, that our democratic freedoms and our right to go anywhere and speak today are not attacked. Let me finish with a quote from Benjamin Franklin: "He who trades freedom for his security will lose both and save none." I can only endorse that. Let us think cold-bloodedly about a society of solidarity and about solutions to these horrible acts of terrorism. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-08-54-plenair-ip026x.u17	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, what happened yesterday in Paris, where the Universal Declaration of Human Rights was signed in 1948, is an abhorrent, dreadful act. There is no qualifier powerful enough to describe it exactly. It is an act of unheard of physical and symbolic violence. Whatever the cause may be, there is no one who can justify or explain the loss of the lives of others. It's an act that shook our consciences. By attacking a press body, the authors attack men and women, but also on a fundamental democratic value that you had the opportunity to recall earlier: freedom of expression. This freedom that the people affected loved so much yesterday, Charlie Hebdo. This freedom is an indispensable light to fight every day against all forms of barbarism and obscurantism. Prime Minister, the fundamental values of tolerance, security and solidarity must be strengthened so as not to allow barbarians to win the debate of ideas and to widen the gap between citizens. We heard your call. Environmentalists, like other democratic political parties, will actively participate in this reflection within this Assembly and outside, without taboo a priori but without overbidding as well. I say again, what happened yesterday is not tolerable. What happened yesterday is simply unthinkable. You said that earlier, just as the Minister of the Interior said this morning on the radio: we must be able to laugh at everything. I agree with that sentence. Terrorists have decided to challenge our democratic system, but, as we know, a tolerant and open society where men and women respect each other is the biggest nightmare of terrorists. Prime Minister, we all have to build and rebuild the contours of this society and of this life together every day. We will find the right answers together to make this nightmare live for yesterday's terrorists and those who would be tempted to imitate them tomorrow. We are in a difficult time of living together; do not hide it. The answers, your answers are expected. The answers are important. Nevertheless, those who claim to have all the answers now are wrong and wrong. Today is the time for recollection. Today, I am Charlie; today, I am Ahmed, a police officer; today, I am Georges, a draftsman; today, I am Jean, a draftsman; today, I am Elsa, a psychoanalyst and a columnist; today, I am Stéphane, a draftsman; today, I am Frédéric, a maintenance officer; today, I am Franck, a brigadier in the service of protection; today, I am Bernard, a draftsman; today, I am Philippe, a draftsman; today, I am Michel, a former chief of staff; today, I am all the names of people of whom we are proud and who, through their commitment and profession, breathe and release freedom. Today, we are also thinking of the eleven gravely wounded, still between life and death. Today, we think of the families of the victims: can they receive the necessary comfort at these difficult times. As you said, Prime Minister, today, more than ever before, we must come together to defend the values of our democracy so as not to let barbarians win the debate of ideas and widen the gap between citizens. As a reporter said this morning, to be afraid is to die a thousand times, it's worse than death. To reject fear, to seek this life-together with determination, is to defy, it is to reverse death. Yes, with hard work, but also with humor. It is somewhat difficult to talk about this at the moment, but humour remains the weapon of the forts, of those "who are not even afraid!" This weapon is left to us as an inheritance by those who, yesterday, gave their lives for freedom. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-08-54-plenair-ip026x.u18	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, as a token of solidarity and sympathy with the victims of the attack on Charlie Hebdo yesterday in Paris, I brought a cartoon. [[The speaker shows cartoon]] You know the cartoon. It's the cartoon that Kurt Westergaard drew ten years ago. I received him in a speech I was allowed to give nine years ago for the Free Press Association, of which Kurt Westergaard is chairman in Denmark. The cartoon was dedicated to me and signed by Kurt Westergaard. What has changed since ten years when the mass Muslim protest against that cartoon broke out and the attack we witnessed yesterday in Paris? The answer is simple. Nothing's changed. On the contrary, the situation has got worse. It is the result of ten years of ignoring and minimising Islam radicalism, ten years of subsidies and facilities for Islam, ten years of projects of barely integration policy, ten years of politically correct discourse of politicians on tolerance, multiculture and tolerance, as we have heard today, ten years above all, in which for politically correct reasons the problem should not be mentioned by name. Officially Islam is a religion of peace, tolerance and tolerance. The debate on the political ideology behind Islam cannot and cannot, therefore, be conducted here in the hemisphere. Criticism of Islam and of the Islamization of our society is in any case dismissed as racist and xenophobic. Anyone who dares to claim that the Qur'an encourages hatred, violence and intolerance is, in any case, an Islamophobe, who must and will be excluded from the political, media and social debate. Colleagues, are all Muslims extremists and potential terrorists? No, of course they're not. The vast majority of people who are moderate and peaceful are those who shun and reject yesterday's violence and attack as well as all other attacks. Does that mean, however, that Islam is moderate and peaceful? The answer is again no. The problem is not the so-called radicalisation, as I have heard it said here dozens of times. The problem is Islam itself. Today it is not just about freedom of the press and freedom of expression. It is about the fact that the values of Islam are at odds with our way of life and with the foundations of our Western and European democracy. It is about freedom of expression, but it is also about the separation between Church and State and about equality between men and women. Is there a problem, ladies and gentlemen, with radicalizing Catholics, with radicalizing liberals, with radicalizing Jews, or what do I say with radicalizing Buddhists? No, Charlie Hebdo mocked all religions and ideologies, but only had to fear violence from Muslims. I can only conclude that certainly not every Muslim is a terrorist, but today almost every terrorist is a Muslim. Colleagues, the victims of the Jewish Museum in Brussels a year ago, the victims yesterday in Paris and the many other victims of many other jihadist attacks in Europe are primarily the victims of the lax immigration policy of the government, of decades of Islam colonisation that has become the result. To say it with the words of Winston Churchill: "Whoever keeps feeding the crocodile in the hope of spawning it, usually ends up in his stomach." The perpetrators of yesterday's attack were born and raised French Muslims. They are children of mass immigration and multiculture, who are today carrying out the attacks in the streets of our European cities. Only a strict policy that takes firm action against anyone who adheres to jihadist and salafistic Islam, who preaches or glorifies violence, can bring solace. This means that Syrian fighters must be taken from their nationality, that we would rather lose them than be rich, rather than want to keep them here, Mr Home Secretary, cramped within our borders and convince them with naive propaganda videos on the Internet. This means that radical mosques must be closed, that hate preachers should not be given the opportunity to explain their message, that Muslims should sign a declaration of loyalty and renounce Sharia and that the recognition and subsidy of Islam should be stopped. Colleagues, I'm closing. During the last twenty-four hours, the indignation was justified. Those who have welcomed, encouraged and facilitated mass immigration in the past, who have ignored and minimized the problem with radical Islam, including those, politicians, journalists, intellectuals and others, who systematically condemn any form of Islam criticism as racist and xenophobic, are today in the front row with the badge "Je suis Charlie" and are indignant. Maybe those who today wear your Suis Charlie's and call out a little earlier were outraged and a little earlier came out on the street. We would not have known the problems we know today. And yes, we politicians are responsible. We may be the main responsible for what is happening today in our European cities. Many of you kept quiet when you could, many of you looked the other way when it was still possible to stop radical Islam. Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday's attack was yet another declaration of war from radical Islam to the free West. There is currently a climate in which action must be taken rather than silence. Those who do not like our Western society here, they can still leave for places in the Middle East, in Iraq, in Syria and I do not know where, where they think it is so much better. I conclude with the words of the Socialist Mayor of Amsterdam who said yesterday: 'If you don't like it here, get the hell out of here.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-08-54-plenair-ip026x.u19	Mr President, Minister for the Interior, ladies and gentlemen, I am as upset and upset as you all are today. The Syrian fighters tend to be young adolescents, people who are malleable and impressionable, who are usually transported to war areas under false pretenses to be trained there into cold-blooded killing machines. I have to admit that my fear of six months ago has unfortunately become a reality. These young people do not go there to defend and express their faith, quite the contrary. Imam Laytouss of Ghent has openly distanced himself from that today. This has long had nothing to do with faith. Those who reach Syria end up in a training center, are brainwashed, push their boundaries, distance themselves from our Western values and norms and create their own perverse boundaries. They teach journalists cold-bloodedly to cut their throats. They become ticking time bombs. That has nothing to do with faith. Of course, we must prevent potential birds from moving to that war zone for the cat. They are a manifest danger once they enter another world of destruction, murder and intolerance. Politicologist Benyaich, on the radio this morning, advocates a strong preventive and repressive policy against radical jihadism. He said a handful of extremists could cripple our country completely. It is incomprehensible that the returned Belgian Syrian fighters today give their support and praise to their brothers who were responsible yesterday for this cowardly act, for this cowardly attack. I think those radical hate preachers and the recruiters are the roots of this calamity. Knowing that two hundred Belgian Syrian warriors are currently engaged in death and destruction in the conflict zone, and that the Syrian warriors already returned here are properly monitored by our security services, it seems to me crucial that we do everything we can to discourage any possible movers by all means. Mr Minister, I have the following questions. How many Syrian fighters leave for the conflict zone every month? How will you, along with us, roll out that counterpropaganda? How will you avoid the impression that the government is against the Islam side? After all, it is actually a measure for Islam and for the accessibility of everyone's faith. Will the real Muslim community be involved in your plans? Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to end by expressing my respect for those heroes, those mommies and daddies, who were shot cold-blooded yesterday in a capital city, three hours away from Brussels. Let this, whatever happens today in our Parliament and elsewhere, be a very clear signal that civilisation must always win in the battle between barbarism and civilisation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-08-54-plenair-ip026x.u20	Mr President, Prime Minister, first of all I would like to thank you for having already carried out the joint protest which has been relayed here by the various spokesmen of the democratic groups. It is true that the emotion is immense. It is to the extent of disgust at cowardice, because yesterday's act is above all an act of cowardice, like all terrorist acts. The cowardice of attacking defenceless women and men and shooting in cold blood a policeman on the ground who asked for remission. The emotion is immense and the disgust is shared, because we all feel, through this ignoble act of barbarism, that it undermines what is the most essential requirement of democracy: freedom of mind, freedom through derision, impertinence, the insolence represented by Charlie Hebdo's writing, this freedom which comes to us from the century of lights which, from Voltaire to Brassens and from Daumier to Wolinski, reminds us that the argument of authority will never be an argument of democrat. We must salute the spontaneous gatherings of citizens who, from yesterday, reminded us that the free peoples in the world share a greater force than that of violence: consciousness; the conscience of women and men who do not yield to fanaticism and radicalism. Of course, democracy is vulnerable. Indeed, it exists only in open societies that accept freedom of movement and thus the risk of being exposed to those who benefit from this freedom. But democracy remains strong, not when it uses the means of those who show barbarism, but when it calmly opposes them the determination of the rule of law and justice. That is why it is important to give justice, the police and the security services all the means to protect society. It is never enough to say, in these circumstances, how much to rehabilitate the authority of the State is not to undermine freedoms, but rather to guarantee their effectiveness. Nor can this authority of the State assert itself if there are no shared intangible values. And I cannot say how moved we all were when we saw the report last night on French television, on the release of the Élysée, heads of religion and philosophical conviction. Representatives of all the cults were present. There was, in particular, the rector of the Great Mosque of Paris, who recalled how these values, among which the secularism of the State, were shared by all the cults of France. A debate on this essential value will also have to take place in us, a value that does not divide, but brings together and feuds all those who want to protect sincere convictions, religious and philosophical convictions, but who also want these beliefs to be expressed in no other way than in the field of shared democracy. It must be said here with force that, despite the expressions of those who want to lead our European societies to the confrontation of religions or philosophical convictions, there is never a rational basis for acts of terrorism or radicalism. The true motivation of the forces that incite hatred is the exploitation of fears, weaknesses and narrowness of mind, it is the exploitation of fanaticism. To this, there is only one answer to be given: audacity, as Charlie Hebdo's editors had, as so many journalists, women and men, who, through associations, carry the message of free thought, of the thought that is affirmed through education and training. The real answer lies in reminding young people that it is training and education that will enable them to face the challenges of life and not the beliefs that lead to the denial of human dignity! In conclusion, Prime Minister, if I may make a suggestion, the times of shared emotion are times of shared speech and conviction, but this awareness should be accompanied by a place of expression far beyond this parliamentary forum, which would allow all democratic forces, all those and all those who believe that tolerance and peace remain the preserve of democracy, to come and forcefully repeat their convictions and commitment to this democracy. I believe that you should take the initiative of calling for a large popular gathering, allowing citizens to express a message: democracy is stronger than barbarism. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-08-54-plenair-ip026x.u21	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there is obviously a huge emotion that is shared. I was present last night in Luxembourg and, as others expressed in this rostrum a few moments ago, I was struck, I was touched by this spontaneous citizen reaction throughout Belgium, elsewhere in Europe and around the world. It's a way of saying "stop", "that's enough", "that's not okay"! The conviction that is mine more than ever today is that there must be one before and one after. After the attack at the Jewish Museum in Brussels, the dramatic attack in Paris yesterday, I am convinced that all Democrats must be determined to be united and united. I would therefore like to thank all the democratic parties in this speech for their sober message. It is my belief that working together is crucial in these difficult moments for our fundamental values. Of course there are differences between us: political differences, philosophical differences, but we share a foundation of fundamental values: openness, tolerance, and fundamental freedoms without which no democratic system is possible. Yesterday, there was an attack on people, on journalists. It was also an attack on our fundamental democratic models. Ladies and gentlemen, many of you have asked me about the measures that have been taken and the action that the government wants to take in this fight against radicalism and terrorism. We, in consultation with the Minister of the Interior, immediately took the decision to organise yesterday a College of Intelligence and Security, which is a meeting that brings together our experts in the field in order to take the appropriate measures. I confirm that, on the proposal of our experts, it has been decided to maintain the level of threat at 2 on a scale of 4, with the adoption of special enhanced protection measures for specific and specific sites and interests. You will understand that I cannot, in this forum, reveal in more detail what the measures and the sites in question are, for obvious reasons of security. We also have today, on the basis of additional information that we have been able to provide, in particular in the framework of the permanent collaboration with our French colleagues, organized at 1:00 p.m., just a few moments ago, a second meeting of the College to assess the situation. I want to point out that we are on alert; we are, of course, ready, if necessary, at every moment, to raise the level of security and take further action. We must strike a balance between vigilance and determination on the one hand and concern not to give in to panic, to remain calm, to remain calm in an extremely difficult and delicate situation. I also want to say that, in this context, it is important to continue, and we are going to do so, to cooperate with the French authorities. We are in constant contact and have communicated our readiness to provide our support and assistance in the research that is underway at this very moment in an attempt to apprehend those suspected of this barbaric and atrocious terrorist act. That is a first reaction to yesterday's tragic event. A second point concerns the coalition agreement and the direction that this government is taking to fight terrorism and radicalism. There have been regular debates on these issues in recent months and years. I am aware that there are differences and nuances between us, but we must first agree today on the broad guidelines and orientation of a strategy against extremism and terrorism. In a few moments, my colleagues Jan Jambon and Koen Geens will probably detail the measures and action of the government that started in the fight against terrorism and radicalism, whether in terms of initiatives to strengthen sanctions and supervision when foreign fighters return to Belgium and the Schengen area, in terms of travel documents, in terms of deradicalisation operations, in terms of presence on social networks in an attempt to make counter-speech, for which initial measures have already been taken by the Council of Ministers a few weeks ago. As we committed ourselves to it, the National Security Council will very quickly become a reality. Of course, we have to work fast. Of course, we are determined to speed up the procedures and decision-making processes so that, as soon as possible, we can be operational in this area. Initiatives are being taken to improve the functioning of the National Security Council with the College of Intelligence and Security, to ensure that the various actors meet around the table in order to be effective and effective. However, we must also tell the truth to our fellow citizens, a zero risk will unfortunately never exist. This means that we must make our best efforts to reduce the risk, that is the intention of this government. We must tell the truth in this regard. That is an important message that we must give today. Ladies and gentlemen, as you have understood, there will be preventive measures, repressive measures but also cooperation with all the authorities, at the Belgian level (local and regional authorities), at the European level and at the international level. I had the opportunity to hold a meeting with the prime ministers of the sub-areas. That was an opportunity for all of us to commit, to work together against radicalism and terrorism. Everyone knows that, in the light of the different powers in Belgium, each authority can play a positive role. Improving coordination, positive and constructive cooperation between us is crucial. I think it is important that we start operations very quickly. We will have consultation committees, operational meetings in the coming days and weeks, with the ministers responsible, to ensure that beyond vocabulary, beyond speech, beyond words, there are actions, commitments, decisions that are taken to give more force to this fight against radicalism and against terrorism. Finally, I would also like to say a word about another important issue. I have also heard this sensitivity, which I understand very well. We have been faced with new forms of violence over the last two or three years. These are new phenomena for European countries. That's not obvious. This also means that more cooperation is needed at international level. There is also a need to strike a balance between fundamental and personal freedoms on the one hand and security requirements on the other, which is not obvious. It is not easy to find a pertinent balance in this. I am sure that we will have a lot of democratic debates on this in this assembly over the next few weeks. At the moment, and for a number of months now, the European Parliament has been debating the issue of facilitating the exchange of passenger data in transport. We are determined, together with the government – the Minister of the Interior has taken the initiative – to try to convince European parliamentarians to move forward on this important issue. A few weeks ago, well before the attacks we have just faced, the European Council decided to try to convince European parliamentarians to make progress on this subject; today there are obstacles in the exchange of information, an inability to go as far as desired in terms of transfer, communication of information and data. One example: in Belgium, when our intelligence services detect suspicious acts by a traveller in the Schengen area, who takes airline tickets in areas that are potentially sensitive to jihadist conflicts, our service does not have access to all the data, which is a weakness, a problem in the context of actions to avoid the risk of attacks. I therefore appeal urgently and solemnly to the various political groups in the European Parliament to advance this important commitment. Ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion, I would simply add that, in political life, we are experiencing moments of confrontation, moments of violence in the political debate, violence in the democratic sphere, but that is the honour of democracy: not sharing the same point of view and fighting with the weapon of written, verbal, argumentary speech, fighting through the force of ideas. That is the pride of the Democrats. When we are confronted with a situation like the one we are encountering today, my conviction is, more than ever, the call for the gathering, the gathering of wills, the gathering of democrats to bear the values that hold us to heart, to affirm that the democrats are standing, that they look at the future with confidence, the strength of conviction and the strength of freedom. And, above all, with hope, hope, hope... Thank you. [[Applause on all benches]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-08-54-plenair-ip026x.u22	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, a great deal of credit has already been paid here to the victims, with deaths, serious injuries and minor injuries. You will not blame me, as Minister of Security, for wanting to pay special tribute to the two policemen and the whole police force, including in our country. They are working daily, 24 hours a day, to ensure the safety of us and all citizens. I like to pay tribute to those policemen. Colleagues, I can confirm that level 2 threat will be maintained. As the Prime Minister said, preventive measures are being taken to increase the protection of certain strategic and sensitive areas. Our services follow the events minute by minute and are in constant contact with the French services. If necessary, this level of threat will be increased. At present, in Belgium, we see no reason to increase this level of threat which, the day before yesterday, was 2. He'll stay on level two. There's no reason to panic. This is an important message in the current circumstances. There were several questions about the measures provided for in the coalition agreement. That's a lot of them. We will deprive the Syrian warriors who have dual nationality and who intend to return of their dual nationality. Of those who have a residence permit and committed acts of violence and terrorism there, we will withdraw their residence permit. We will take specific measures for minors. All these elements were included in the coalition agreement. Specialists have told me that an important element in this could be the statements next week in the Sharia4Belgium trial. For this reason, the projects of law have not yet been submitted to the government. We are waiting for the statements to be made next week and the elements of condemnation, and we will then submit the legislative projects on these various points in the government agreement to the government and then to Parliament. In addition, we will examine, in consultation with the Minister of Defence, as provided for in the coalition agreement, how to use Defence in the event of increased threats. I do say, in case of increased threat. We are being pushed into this after yesterday's events in Paris. A number of people have asked questions about the program of counterpropaganda. Mr Metsu, first of all I can say that there are still a dozen people a month travelling from here to Syria or Iraq to fight there. At the last Council of Ministers for Christmas, we approved a pilot project on counterpropaganda. The European Council of Ministers for the Interior asked me to take the lead in this and the Council of Ministers gave the green light to this. The idea dates back a few years ago, but we will now effectively implement it. In the middle of this month, the project will enter the operational phase of the FPS Home Affairs, within the general management. This is a preventive measure, in addition to all the repressive measures I have just listed. The aim is to develop a counter-discourse on the social media. One can laugh about that. One can say, as I have heard here in the gallery, let them go there. We are talking about minors, people aged 13, 14, 15 years. What model of civilisation do we have if we do not put in place all the means for those people who have a whole life ahead of them, to keep them here and to give them a chance for a future here, in our civilisation? Those who abdicate there, I believe, are committing the greatest possible social error. We'll take that glove. Ladies and gentlemen, I could go much further in this, but in order to maintain the serenity in this debate, which I very much appreciate, I shall leave it at that. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-08-54-plenair-ip026x.u23	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would first like to ask you to excuse my delay due to a case of force majeure. I obviously agree with the remarks made by the Prime Minister on behalf of the government in relation to the victims of yesterday's events in Paris. As far as the Justice Department is concerned, I would like to be brief. Mr Maingain, you know that I always answer your questions with the greatest loyalty. I will not fail to do so today. Firstly, with regard to the Justice and Home Affairs Council (JHA), two things seem important to me at European and Belgian level. On the one hand, we must consider whether we can take the same measure as France. My cabinet is seriously studying this and next week I will have a meeting with Mr Jambon. The maintenance should have taken place today, but because of the circumstances it could not. In particular, this is an administrative measure relating to the non-departure of Syrian fighters to the country concerned. Mr Francken, at the moment we are not really armed to do what needs to be done in this area. We should be able to prevent people leaving for these countries in suspicious circumstances, via Turkey or otherwise. Ladies and gentlemen, you are aware of the merit of our fellow countryman Gilles de Kerckhove, who is responsible for the fight against terrorism at the level of the European Commission. The question arises as to whether we should in any way amend our Schengen agreements in order to control persons returning to the external borders. Experts tell me that scanning our passports will take three seconds if we enter the European Union again. I realize that three seconds is very long when one almost misses one's plane. Shouldn't we seriously think about that? Talks with my Danish colleague, who has been struck in the same way by the phenomenon of the Syrian fighters, indicate that there are still very democratic and as peaceful countries in the same direction as ours. Mr Maingain, with regard to your question on the budget for State security in the fight against terrorism, it goes without saying that the economies, which affect the Department of Justice as well as any other ministerial department at the moment, will not be applied to the fight against terrorism, of which State Security is a top priority. This means that we will first save on non-priority tasks, such as economic espionage, and not on the fight against terrorism. Secondly, we have allocated a budget of 1.8 million to invest precisely in the fight against cybercrime; we are trying to monitor the digital activities of terrorist groups and individuals. Finally, we are carrying out a very constructive dialogue with Home Affairs to transfer the Protection of Persons service from the State Security. These three simultaneous measures will allow our inspectors to focus more on the fight against terrorism. If we do not perhaps have the resources available to the security services of the Netherlands and Denmark, my services are ready, do their best and have sufficient means to combat terrorism. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-08-54-plenair-ip026x.u24	Mr President, I would like to thank the Prime Minister and both ministers for their explanation. I would like to make two very brief points. A first important principle in the fight against terror is that we are pursuing this fight within the limits of a democratic rule of law. In that case, I realise that we are fighting somewhat unequal weapons. The biggest gift that can be given to terror is that democratic systems are beginning to leave the borders of the rule of law because of supposed force majeure and so one takes a walk with one's own principles. That's the biggest gift one can give to terrorists. It's not easy. Prime Minister, Ministers, you are right to call all hands on deck. However, let us ensure that this is done. A second important principle is the following. I didn't hear it mentioned, but I know there's some stuff in the pipeline. A very important medium or instrument used by terrorists is the Internet. There has been talk of radical imams. I agree that an attempt should be made to do something about such imams. However, the Internet is much more dangerous. It's a sneaking poison, which can hardly be decoded and analyzed. It also assumes a lot of specialization in the police. There's a specialized service in federal police, the Federal Computer Crime Unit. I would argue in the current difficult budgetary times that we should do everything in our power to strengthen this service. I would like to conclude with a kind of paraphrasing of the late Gaston Eyskens: extremism is a virtue only in the defence of tolerance.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-08-54-plenair-ip026x.u25	Mr President, I thank the three ministers for their answers. I hope, as the Prime Minister said in his reply, that the words mentioned in the statement will be quickly translated into action, because there is a real urgency and yesterday's events make this issue even more urgent. I have already had the opportunity several times to question the Minister of the Interior about the internet and the absolute need to meet the major internet players such as Google, Youtube etc, since we know that all propaganda and recruitment is done through this network. I am glad to hear that Belgium will lead a pilot project at European level on this subject. I hope that we will also go beyond that. I heard the Minister of Justice say that the budgets will not be allocated in the fight against terrorism. I also hope, far from any controversy, that in the budgetary adjustment, the government, which has cut the OCAM budget by 17%, will be able to reconsider its position. In these difficult times, there are priorities, and there is a need to immunize a number of services, including the police, but also the OCAM, which seems to me to be an essential body.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-08-54-plenair-ip026x.u26	Mr President, Prime Minister, in terms of security, you have finally summarized your work, particularly with the actors of the Ministerial Intelligence and Security Committee, saying, "We are on alert and we are on watch, but at the same time we do not want to give in to panic." I think that sums up your work for the time being and I repeat that I fully adhere to it. I think we must also, and that's a little bit of what Mr. Patrick Dewael said, win the war of ideas. This is certainly the most difficult. There is the Internet, and indeed we will probably have to work together with the government in this chamber to be even more effective in tracking calls for violence and fanaticism on the Internet; but I think that alongside this, we really need to work on these ideas with partners who have expertise in this area. That is why I was talking about the Regions and Communities. It is clear that what is being done at school, in training, in neighbourhood prevention policies is important; to continue, as you did this morning, to mobilize them, to coordinate them around an anti-radicalism plan seems indispensable to me. In addition, the floor is broken. We have heard a lot in this chamber, but it is also in places of worship, associations, places where non-denominationals gather, factories. It's all over the place and it's bursting. I therefore wonder whether, as we have done in the past, it would not be wise to bring together representatives of non-denominational religions and philosophies, as well as the social partners and the cupolas of associations, so that there can be a word, together, to defend the common foundation of our values and the defence of freedoms. I will conclude by saying that one of Charlie Hebdo's cartoonists said in his time, while he was being questioned on the radio: "For us religions are ideologies like others and we fight all ideologies without exception." Charlie Hebdo also said: "Above all, we want to make people laugh!"I will therefore tell their potential successors, on behalf of the PS, to take over and, above all, continue to make us laugh!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-08-54-plenair-ip026x.u27	Mr President, Prime Minister, Ministers, thank you for your reply. Actually, I only have one call. For us, you can see the words "L'L'union" - "fait la force." Consensus makes power. In the fight against an attack on our values, they are the only answer, not only here, but also in relations with civil society and other levels of government. We must continue to work on this. I therefore hope, Prime Minister, that you will take the necessary initiatives to combat radicalism and, above all, to preserve the values of our democracy, including civil society and the representatives of all religious and philosophical attitudes and all social beliefs.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-08-54-plenair-ip026x.u28	Prime Minister, Ministers, thank you for your reply. Prime Minister, you rightly pointed out the common basis of values, rights and freedoms. The vast majority of the population and our assembly want to reduce and not increase tensions. The coalition agreement is, of course, the guiding principle. There is no risk-free society. Evident must have zero tolerance for fighters who want to fight in foreign conflicts. But equally naturally, first of all, prevention and dialogue are also needed in order to remove the breeding ground of radicalism. I quote Immanuel Kant: "At the end of the day, a world of democracies is beckoning to resolve their differences by mutual agreement."
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-08-54-plenair-ip026x.u29	Mr Prime Minister, violence is never the expression of an opinion. Violence just means the destruction of freedom of speech. That is why we must fight violence, terrorism and violent jihadism. We have to do this firmly and we have to do it humanely. We must, however, do this, as you have said, avec la fierté du démocrate, with the pride of the democrat. That is where we, as democrats, are different from terrorists and non-democratics. We do respect human rights, even when we fight anti-democrats.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-08-54-plenair-ip026x.u30	Prime Minister, Ministers, thank you for your answers. Both in the answers and in the calls it was clear that we need a sustainable exit strategy from polarisation. We all have to think carefully how we are going to deal with this. Our group appreciates your open attitude today. What happened yesterday and all the incidents before that must not be for nothing. We need to think together today across all party boundaries about how we can guarantee the safety of our citizens, how we can stop polarisation and how we can stop hatred. It is up to us to prevent escalation over the next few days and weeks. Unfortunately, this escalation is already taking place in France. It is also up to us to ensure that the soil is removed and that the initial process of radicalisation is reversed. Yesterday was a black day for democracy. Yesterday, society lost. Today and tomorrow we have to stand our backs. Today and tomorrow we must respond to the attack with more openness, with more democracy, with more dialogue, with the word, the pencil and humor, with what makes people human, our humanity.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-08-54-plenair-ip026x.u31	Mr President, Prime Minister, Ministers, I thank you for the concrete answers you have given us. On the one hand, I share your desire not to give in to panic and, on the other, to do everything possible not to polarise Belgian or European society. This is an important priority that has been raised today by a large part of the political groups present in this House. In the coming months, to cut the grass under the foot of all these radicalist groups, it will be necessary to have an inclusive logic, a logic of solidarity. Indeed, these extremists, these radical groups wait for society to polarize itself in order to have an even stronger grip on a part of the population and to commit these most abject acts. I therefore encourage the public authorities to work with the actors in the field, the community, the municipalities, the teachers – these are competences that go beyond the federal framework – in the interests of strong cohesion and not to allow ourselves to go towards polarisation of our society.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-08-54-plenair-ip026x.u32	Mr President, Prime Minister, as you said, we are experiencing difficult times in terms of living together. However, at the turn of this debate, I was able to see some signs of hope. Thus, there is a unanimous and unequivocal condemnation of all the democratic forces that do not claim to have the answer on their own. We will have to continue to work on this issue in collaboration with social actors. Then I was also able to see a willingness to work together. You have appealed to us; we have responded. We hope that this can be achieved quickly. Finally, there is – and it is above all this aspect that I wish to highlight – all these spontaneous manifestations, these messages, these testimonies here and elsewhere, these tweets and cartoons, these cartoons that sometimes do so much harm to the political men and women that we are, but also, sometimes, so much good by reminding us of our modest reality. Unfortunately, these cartoons have led some to commit acts that – I repeat – are unacceptable and intolerable. But this will not prevent cartoons from "reviving", which will allow us to buy Charlie Hebdo's next numbers; it is also a sign of hope.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-08-54-plenair-ip026x.u33	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the conduct of a debate such as this and the resolution of an incident like yesterday are well known and predictable. First of all, we express our condolences to the victims. A number of emotional actions, however well-meant, must channel the anger of the population in a politically correct way. Secondly, we minimize the fact that the terrorists are Muslims and act from a particular religious and political ideology. Thirdly, we use covert words. We are talking about Syrian fighters, we are talking about terrorism, we are talking about violence, we are talking about barbarism and war against terror, not to say what is really and fundamentally about. Fourthly, Islamic leaders are being stepped up in all kinds of media programmes to come and tell them that the Islamic community is distancing itself from the facts and that Islam is in fact a religion of peace, tolerance and tolerance. Fifth, islamic representatives are excluded from the debate, especially in the media, where they are obviously not allowed to be included in the debate at the moment, because it may well escalate. Much worse, we actually have to have the debate on the essence of the problem. Sixthly, there will be a number of technical proposals and some tough statements in the sense of "tolerance" alone in the fight for tolerance is extremism a virtue and "we are going to fight radically for democracy." You know that kind of statement. The muscles are rolled. Seventh, we're finally going to the order of the day. Ladies and gentlemen, that is an easy scenario that we have experienced so many times in recent years, even for decades. However, one thing you must be very aware of. It is noted in Germany, Sweden, France, Italy, Austria and everywhere. If the authorities in these European countries are no longer able to guarantee the safety of citizens against Muslim and Islamism, then the citizen himself will take charge. Then you have the escalation you rightly fear. However, this escalation is not due to those who dare to put their finger on the wounds, but to your own inability to act and to take firm action against the Islam extremists who have finally declared war on our democracy and our values, standards and way of life. Finally, I would like to say a word about this. Many of you are walking around with a badge. That is fantastic and I would like to participate, but I think we might have to wear another badge tomorrow, namely: 'Nous sommes Charles Martel'. We are Karel Martel who stopped the first Islamvasion in Europe at Poitiers. Today we are once again experiencing an Islamic invasion, through immigration colonization and through Muslim terrorism, and we must stop this invasion today. We are Charlie Martel [[.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-08-54-plenair-ip026x.u34	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, that is quite clear. Our group certainly found the debate encouraging. The Minister and Mr Dewael have emphasized it very well, the opposition in the various fora is necessary and urgent. I'm a little surprised at the number of movers, 10 movers a month, that's 10 potential time bombs a month. However, it is encouraging that the legislative framework for the integrated approach against radical jihadisation is ready. After all, no one can deny that time is ticking away. The removal of dual nationality and residence papers seems to me to be a step in the right direction. People are already talking about the point of no return. Now, if we take this literally, we mean that we must prevent both the departure from the conflict zone and the return from the conflict zone. We must regard this as a timeline and prove that we can work together on this black day for our democracy in an appropriate manner.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-08-54-plenair-ip026x.u35	Mr President, I did not ask for the floor, but after the speech I have just heard, I would just like to say a word. You really don't have to have the sense of history to talk about Charles Martel. It's Charles Marteau we just heard!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-08-54-plenair-ip026x.u36	As agreed with the various groups, we will now suspend the sitting for ten minutes. We shall resume the sitting at 4.30 p.m. The meeting was suspended. The meeting is adjourned.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-08-54-plenair-ip026x.u37	The meeting was resumed. The sitting has resumed. Ladies and gentlemen, I would remind you of the Rules of Procedure concerning speaking time, two minutes before the question, two minutes before the answer and one minute before the reply. I did not want to apply these provisions for the previous debate, but I will now apply them more or less. I therefore ask you to take this into account.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-08-54-plenair-ip026x.u38	Mr Prime Minister, last week the Planning Bureau announced the outlook for inflation. According to the estimates of the Planning Bureau, there will be no index jump this year. I do not want to reopen the debate on the index jump here. You know that we do not think it is a good decision to finance the reduction of charges. The result is, in particular, that no reduction in the burden for our companies was foreseen in 2015. You know that the Di Rupo government had decided to provide for a reduction of EUR 450 million in 2015. Your government has postponed this reduction of charges, assuming that there would be an index jump that would allow you to meet the companies, but that is not the case now. Today, we are in the situation that there will be no reduction in the burden on companies in 2015, at a time when our economy is absolutely in need of this in the current crisis. Prime Minister, my plea is that this government should use common sense and provide for a reduction of costs for our companies by 2015. You know our solution. We are the only country in Europe that has not yet achieved this with an added value tax on shares. You can still guarantee the 450 million euros already foreseen by the previous government to the companies. I would therefore ask that this be seriously considered. Use common sense and decide to do so. I have two questions, Prime Minister. Firstly, does the government really intend to provide for a reduction in the burden on companies? We are absolutely in favour of this. Secondly, what about the tax shift? Mr Vuye said one of these days in an article "CD&V" and "N-VA" have already changed their position on this issue. That's a little tricky for the MR, like they're not playing along. When I look around, it's actually everybody for that tax shift to be able to pay the tax relief for the companies, except Open Vld. Prime Minister, I look forward to your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-08-54-plenair-ip026x.u39	Mr President, Mr Vanvelthoven, thank you for your question. I will try to give it a clear answer once again. One of the main objectives of the current government is to strengthen the competitiveness of our companies. I am pleased that you are also following that reasoning today. That's a positive signal. Strengthening the competitiveness of our companies means working towards better support for the position of companies in our country. Clear decisions have been taken in this area in the coalition agreement. A first element is an index jump, which is correct. There's now a report from the Planning Bureau, which is a new element. On that point, I agree with your reasoning. An index jump may come later if no indexation is made in the course of 2015. This is an element which must be taken into account. A second element is the competitiveness pact. The government will fill in those two commitments. Improving competitiveness will increase the purchasing power of workers. There's good news today. The fact that there will be no indexation in the course of 2015 also means that the people, when they work, will earn more money through our approved fiscal reform in the course of 2015. As a result of the fiscal reform adopted, the flat-rate costs increase, which means an increase in the wages of workers, in particular low and middle wages. So that's good news for the next few months in 2015. There are two important elements for the government: firstly, the competitiveness of enterprises and, secondly, the purchasing power of workers. There is a strong agreement in this area between the four governmental parties. A third point concerns the tax shift. I repeat that an important decision has already been taken in the 2015 budget, which has been approved by Parliament. This is a EUR 2.8 billion tax shift. This is based on the following basic reasoning: 100% of the reorganisation with the reduction of public expenditure, in order to achieve a balance in 2018. There will be a major fiscal reform and a major tax shift of EUR 2.8 billion. All new revenue has been used in the 2015 budget for improving competitiveness, for re-launching measures and for the purchasing power of the people, in particular those who work. That is a political choice the government has made. In the course of the legislative term, especially in the context of budgetary control, the government will consider how it is possible to take the best fiscal measures. We clearly do not choose the slogans. After all, a slogan has never created a job. The government opts for an efficient tax system. This means a tax system that offers opportunities to the people who work, who want to work and who want to create prosperity. (Applause from various quarters, including the benches of Open Vld)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-08-54-plenair-ip026x.u40	Mr President, Prime Minister, your answer must undoubtedly be very disappointing for business. I do not understand why there is so much enthusiasm for this on the benches of Open Vld. The large reduction in company charges was the index jump, for 2.6 billion. He won't be here this year. I have suggested that we do it in a different way, but I understand that this government does not intend to do so. You can be funny about that. I hope that the images on which you are laughing will go around, but the companies will not get anything from this government this year in terms of reducing charges, and that is very regrettable in these circumstances.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-08-54-plenair-ip026x.u41	Mr President, Minister, Justice has also been in the spotlight in our country because of a sad fact. In any event, Mr Van den Bleeken's situation has once again highlighted the very difficult and sometimes miserable conditions in which interned people reside in our prisons. In the past, Belgium has been regularly referred to this by the European Court of Human Rights. It is easy to call the internment the well of justice. However, it appears that within that group there is still a group of people who are said to be untreatable or from whom one says that it is stated in the current internment law that reintegration is possible or that internment is necessary until one can function again in society. However, this is not always possible. That is why you have sought a solution in this particular situation. I understand that an appointment has been made with the Netherlands, where treatments would be possible. However, the demand for general care for interned persons, specifically for this group, remains. It is not easy to find a solution both in terms of infrastructure and in terms of the need for qualified care and staff. There are currently a number of slopes and things are moving, such as the FPC in Ghent, which is open and where the person concerned will temporarily stay in a transitional situation. The FPC of Ghent and soon the FPC of Antwerp will eventually have to make a reintegration and cooperation with and flow to the outside world, if I may say so, possible. However difficult it is to provide care for people with internment problems, we, as a human being, are obliged to continue to take care of them. I therefore have a few questions, Minister. What are the possibilities of care for interned people at the moment? What is your view on the care of the so-called long-stayers? How do you propose to develop this concern? How's that gonna happen? Is there any consultation with the Ministers of Welfare and Health on this issue?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-08-54-plenair-ip026x.u42	Mr President, Mrs Becq, thank you for your question. You know that this Parliament approved the law of 5 May 2014 which appeared in the Belgian Official Journal on 9 July 2014. That law requires some repair in the field of legal terminology, references to other laws and, in particular, the external legal status of the interned, which is too easily aligned with the external legal status of a detainee. The new law may also not take sufficient account of the diversification of the different groups of interned persons. The final release is only possible in case of healing, but also in case of sufficient improvement of the mental disorder that has led to the internment. A final release is not possible for persons in whom the mental disorder can never be better. At present there is a gap in the law for persons with mental disabilities and non-congenital disabilities, insofar as they could not be definitively released. You are right to point out the need for cooperation with the Communities. We have not only transferred electronic surveillance, but also the limited detention and follow-up of conditions of trial release to the Communities from 1 January. It is clear, however, that we could also think of cooperation with, for example, the Flemish Agency for Persons with Disabilities. Moreover, this agency is already playing a role in the supervision of interns today. I refer to the shelter in Merksplas. In order to further develop healthcare pathways, network coordinators have been appointed from Health. They bridge the gap between Justice and the comprehensive mental health network. As far as your demand for long-stay facilities is concerned, it is true that our institutions have a large gap in this respect. That is why an appeal to the Netherlands would be made. Long stay means that patients cannot be released, not only because they cannot improve, but also because they continue to pose a danger to society. We will try to install a long-stay facility, and we will find strength in the government agreement which sets out three main points: firstly, sufficient budgetary resources to ensure the implementation of the new legal framework on internment; secondly, the reception of interns in an appropriate infrastructure with appropriate care and follow-up; thirdly, the establishment of a specialised centre for observation and diagnosis of offenders. I believe, Mrs Becq, that after Ghent where we are doing very well at the moment and in view of the invitation to tender for Antwerp, which will take place in February, we can offer prospects in order to gradually find a complete framework for the succession of interned people.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-08-54-plenair-ip026x.u43	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. The focus on this group of people who stay in prison is not always there and also requires the necessary financial commitment. It is important that this signal can be given. I will, of course, continue to monitor the situation. I am, of course, also counting on support from Wellness and Health. In fact, it is not obvious to make it happen only from the point of view of justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-08-54-plenair-ip026x.u44	Mr President, Minister, the issue of hospital funding was discussed in detail on Monday's De Standaard page. An opinion paper by the chairman and deputy director of the AZ Nikolaas in Sint-Niklaas addressed the underfinancing of the hospital sector. This situation has become untenable today because it has provoked an enormous competition between hospitals. The pursuit of market share is increasing by the day. The recruitment of patients is a target. It was even mentioned that hospitals refer patients to hospitals all the way across the country because they do not wish to refer them to the nearest hospital, since they consider that hospital to be competitive. It is clear that this situation is not healthy: not for our health care, not for the patient, not for the quality and affordability of the system. This situation puts a mortgage on the formation of clinical networks within the same geographical area. That opinion piece is not the only thing that was written about it, because more ink has flowed on that theme. It seems to have been a problem for years. For example, in autumn 2014, the KCE published a report on this subject which highlighted a number of important issues. More and more hospitals are in red. The hospitals are not adapted to the needs of the future. Also problematic are the under-financing, over-supply of beds, over-supply of highly specialised services, non-reimbursement by quality and deductions on wages. I can go on like this. That list isn't exhaustive. There is therefore no doubt that this problem is serious and must be tackled urgently, since the atmosphere of hospitals and the additional moods are detrimental to the proper and efficient provision of care. Madam Minister, you have already briefly announced this in your policy paper. Madam Secretary, I have the following questions for you. When are you planning a consultation with the relevant actors on this issue? We have heard that a task force would also be set up. When will this consultation begin and when can we expect the first results in Parliament? In addition to the quick wins you have mentioned about reducing the number of hospital beds and limiting the average duration of stay in hospitals, do you have any other quick wins in mind that you can already tell us?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-08-54-plenair-ip026x.u45	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure concerning speaking time. Both the Minister and the questioner have done a great job. It's up to you now to do better, Mrs. De Block.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-08-54-plenair-ip026x.u46	Mr President, since I know you are very strict, I will try to do so. Dear Mrs Somers, we launched the first round of consultations with stakeholders on 8 December. We've consulted with all the hospital domes, that's a lot of them. Now we are in the process of consulting the sickness funds and then one with the medical syndicates follows. In addition, we are developing a methodology for dealing with this indeed complicated dossier that has been dragging on for many years. In concrete terms, by the end of March, we will come to the Health Commission with an action plan. It's already been agreed with the chairman. This action plan will set out the topics to be further explored. In short, we want to present a timing and methodology to Parliament. Reducing the number of hospital beds is difficult to approach as a quick win. Any adjustment to the complex way in which the budget for hospitals' financial resources is calculated will first require the necessary simulations, in order to avoid damaging shifts or other unintended effects. Hospital funding creates structural and complex problems which therefore require a well-conversed approach. The recurring signs of underfunding are an example of this. If something needs to be made clear, it is that there are no easy or quick solutions to this so far. Nevertheless, the government agreement indicates that hospital funding should provide the right incentives for hospitals to cooperate and possibly specialise and operate in networks. The refinancing of hospitals is very important. I conclude, Mr President, but I would like to say that the Länder are important stakeholders. They are now responsible for the recognition policy. We must therefore cooperate better with the Länder and define tasks with them. They will therefore be the last to be consulted.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-08-54-plenair-ip026x.u47	Mr President, Minister, I am pleased to note that from the start of this legislative term all the action has been taken, that you have already spoken with various actors and will continue to do so in the near future and that you will come to the committee with a result at the end of March. From this point of view, I appeal to all those involved in this important dossier to cooperate with Parliament and the Minister and to prepare for the future without blinkers on our hospital sector. This is in the interests of affordability, but above all in the interests of patients.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-08-54-plenair-ip026x.u48	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the new SNCB transport plan has been implemented for the last few weeks. The situation of some users has certainly been improved and this has probably also brought some necessary savings. On the other hand, in rural areas, particularly in the province of Luxembourg, this is a great deal. There are a whole series of problems: late trains, caderated rhythms that no longer meet the needs of workers or students. There is also a problem of articulation with TECs at the level of bus services. While the transport plan is being put in place, several regional and federal elected representatives of the CDH scare the population by announcing that lines will be removed in rural areas and that the Brussels-Namur-Luxembourg line will cease to be strengthened. This creates a blur that really harms the vision that we can make progress. Madam Minister, could you then take stock of the responsibilities with regard to this plan? To the best of my knowledge, it was voted unanimously. The adaptations that followed SNCB's roadshows in the provinces have, I believe, also been voted unanimously with the exception of the CDH, when there were improvements in rural areas. I'd like to know what's going on. Given the situation, we realize that this plan lacks a comprehensive vision. Frankly, we wonder how it was established and what's going on. Could you therefore, Madam Minister, raise the debate in the face of all these events by giving us your vision of the plan, how you will evaluate it and make it evolve? And above all, as far as we are concerned, but it probably also concerns rural areas other than the province of Luxembourg, could you tell us what your vision of railways in rural areas is?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-08-54-plenair-ip026x.u49	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this week's news is also the school year of the second semester. This mainly concerns students and workers, some of whom use the train to go to school or work. It is true that in rural areas – and not only in the province of Luxembourg but also in the district of Dinant and Hainaut – there are enormous problems with train schedules, especially those in the morning and evening, which no longer meet the needs of students and workers. Therefore, could scheduling arrangements be proposed quickly? Some trains on the Vielsam side have been found. This is a very good thing, but in other regions schedules should be evaluated and corrected where appropriate. I'll take an example. Arlon is a small town with nearly 4,000 students. The train schedule used by these students, teachers and administrative staff no longer meets their needs at all. In fact, the profitable evening and morning train was removed. It's an aberration. Minister, could a first assessment of schedule changes be made quickly? Above all, can we hope for a rapid change in the timetables which pose major problems in rural areas, some of which are L trains (such as the example cited in Arlon) or P trains, i.e. trains which do not have a direct impact on national lines?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-08-54-plenair-ip026x.u50	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I want to be an honest minister, without any demagogic speech or attitude, unlike some political representatives who have a short memory or who take little of the choices that I inherit. The transport plan has indeed been unanimously voted on by the Board of Directors of SNCB, which includes representatives of the CDH. It was approved by the previous government, after having undergone changes following numerous roadshows organised by SNCB. This adapted plan represented an improvement over the previous version and an additional cost of over 7.33 million. According to my information, in fact, only the CDH has not supported this improvement on the board of directors, especially for rural areas; it seems to me important to restore the truth. As a reminder, this transport plan replaces the previous one dating back to 1998, as the context has changed considerably. This plan presents not only progress but also limitations. As minister, I want to assume this responsibility, which I am doing in particular by going to present this plan to the interested mayors, including those of the CDH in Luxembourg and Hainaut. Tomorrow, I go to Theux, the commune of my friend André Frédéric; then to all the provinces that ask me. In addition to a daily review of the youth diseases of this plan, when I arrived, I undertook to bring together a task force from mid-2015, with all the Regions, to assess the structural problems and to take them into account in the preparation of the next transport plan. I do not wish to make the same mistakes as my predecessors who did not have an integrated vision of mobility. I want to provide for a more transparent procedure vis-à-vis citizens and businesses. I would like to see a global reflection on mobility, without taboos, within the budgetary framework set. In particular, at each railway station, buses or trams will have to wait for customers, especially in rural areas, for regional public transport lines not to compete with railway lines on the same route. It's totally counterproductive. In the meantime, the Regions also have the opportunity to communicate to me all their comments, all their priorities, especially for rural areas, and in particular for Luxembourg. If the Government of the Walloon Region wants to make the Brussels-Luxembourg axis its priority, by concentrating its co-financing capacity, I will do everything possible to ensure that the modernisation of this axis is strengthened and accelerated. I also expect clear priorities from regional governments in the coming months. Finally, I asked SNCB to assess the problems, on the one hand, related to the launch of the implementation of the transport plan and, on the other hand, related to specific cases such as those affecting certain schools. With regard to this last point, I have asked SNCB to submit proposals for adaptation, which will be considered in the coming weeks. We will take this into account in the preparation of the next 2017 transport plan, or even before, if these adaptations can be made without fundamental changes. Finally, Mrs. Poncelet, I want to tell you that I am tired of your party's bad faith. You will tell your regional minister that, when I met him in his office, it was informally and that the only station he told me about was Namur station, of which he is the mayor.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-08-54-plenair-ip026x.u51	Mr President, Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. I have the feeling that with you we are going, finally, to see clear!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-08-54-plenair-ip026x.u52	Mr. Chairman, Madam Minister, I am not satisfied with your answer. The CDH was on the board of directors. Each time, he voted no in the vote on the mobility plan that was presented. So what you're saying is not correct. The CDH is the only party that has ever voted in favour of this plan. On the other hand, I did not receive a very specific response to the evaluation. When will we receive it? I am thinking in particular of the timetables. You talked about integration with other modes of mobility. It can be seen that this is not working on the ground. TECs are not consulted. It is up to them to adapt their schedules according to the timetables of the trains. The same applies to schools. That's not right! It's a lack of respect.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-08-54-plenair-ip026x.u53	Mr President, Secretary of State, I am asking you today about the social and humanitarian emergency that many citizens from Guinea, Sierra Leone and Liberia are experiencing. You know that an Ebola epidemic is hitting these countries hard. Given this situation, which poses both a health and a humanitarian risk, it is legitimate to ensure that meeting our international and moral obligations does not lead to the spread of the epidemic on our territory. In a way, it is this legitimate concern that has led to the suspension of forced returns to the affected countries, in particular because the staff in charge refuse to expose themselves to the risk of contamination, to the point of leading us to a rather ubiquitous situation, which is absurd, where we consider these countries too dangerous to expose, even for a few moments, agents of the Belgian State, but where we consider it quite normal to refuse their application for asylum and encourage them to return to the country by their own means. It seems to me to be a rather cynical way of dealing with the issue. In fact, what is happening in our country is that we refuse them to lead a dignified life until the normalization of the situation in their country of origin. Therefore, Mr Franken, in concrete terms, all these citizens are now on the street, living in hiding. Some of them have invested an unsanitary and very poor building in the territory of my commune in property belonging to it. In addition to those who have invested in this building, other migrants are added from these risk areas, which significantly increases the risk of public health, which is the cause of the situation. You should also know that the United States has decided to respond to this emergency by taking a common sense step. They gave provisional status to these political refugee candidates from Guinea, Sierra Leone and Liberia for a period of 18 months. Mr Secretary of State, will you, like the United States, offer a status to migrants from these countries affected by the epidemic? In the meantime, are you going to take your responsibilities to allow emergency accommodation for all those people who are in great difficulty?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-08-54-plenair-ip026x.u54	Mr Kir, ladies and gentlemen, according to Belgian law, the assessment of the need for protection of asylum seekers falls within the competence of independent bodies, namely the Office of the Commissioner-General for Refugees and Stateless Persons (CCRA) and the Aliens Litigation Council (CCE). CGRA believes that refugee or subsidiary protection status should not be granted solely on the basis of the risk associated with the Ebola virus. Therefore, on the basis of the asylum procedure, the recognition of a status on the basis of the mere fact of invoking a risk of Ebola virus contamination is not an option. CGRA is of the opinion that there is no need to organise additional ad hoc legislation that would join the existing asylum procedure. Existing measures are sufficient to cover situations requiring protection.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-08-54-plenair-ip026x.u55	Mr Franken, you will easily understand that I am really not satisfied with your answers. You have an unworthy attitude. You deny status to those people who are in danger if they return to their country, but you do not go to the end of your logic, which would be sending orders to leave the territory so that they return to their country. And then you leave them in nature, in the streets, in hiding. A few days ago, they went to invest a building belonging to the commune of Saint-Josse. You have a responsibility to protect asylum seekers. The only answer you're giving us here is, "I'm the opinion of the CGRA." But Mr. Franken, you're the minister! You have the responsibility! You can't tell these people, "I don't give you a status, if only temporary." Give them provisional status, like the United States, for a period that will allow us to see if we can end the Ebola epidemic in the countries concerned. I cannot accept that answer. I really ask you to reconsider, in the light of what I have just said, the situation of nationals from these three countries who are victims of the Ebola epidemic.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-08-54-plenair-ip026x.u56	The next item is the secret vote on naturalisations. (695/1-2) The next item is the vote on naturalisations. (695/1-2) Members are invited to deposit the proposal of naturalisation laws in the ballot box. Members are requested to submit the proposed naturalization laws in the ballot box. The proposal of naturalisation laws must not be signed. The proposed naturalization laws cannot be signed. Where a member opposes the naturalisation of an applicant, he shall delete the name of the interested party from the list which was delivered to him. A member who does not intend to grant naturalization to an applicant will delete the name of the applicant from the list given to him. Two Secretaries shall vote. I propose that Mrs Nawal Ben Hamou and Mrs Yoleen Van Camp be appointed as voters. Two secretaries are responsible for counting the ballot. I propose that you appoint Ms. Nawal Ben Hamou and Ms. Yoleen Van Camp as deputy returning officer. I invite the secretaries to call from the names. I invite the secretaries to make the roll call.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-08-54-plenair-ip026x.u57	We are about to close the secret ballot on naturalization applications. We will close the ballot for naturalization applications. I would ask those Members who have not yet done so to put their ballots on the bus immediately. I ask those members who have not yet tabled their ballots to do so immediately. The secret ballot is closed. I declare the ballot closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-08-54-plenair-ip026x.u58	Mr Louis Ide, Member of the European Parliament, resigned on 19 December 2014. Mr Louis Ide, Member of the European Parliament, resigned on 19 December 2014. The first successor to replace him is Mrs Anneleen Van Bossuyt. The first alternate to replace him is Ms. Anneleen Van Bossuyt [[.]] The election of the latter as an alternate member of the European Parliament was approved at the plenary session of our assembly on 30 June 2014. The election of the latter as an alternate member of the European Parliament was validated by our Assembly during the sitting on 30 June 2014. The person concerned fulfils the eligibility conditions laid down in Articles 1 and 41 of the Law of 23 March 1989 concerning the election of the European Parliament. The person concerned fulfils the conditions of eligibility laid down in Articles 1 and 41 of the Law of 23 March 1989 on the election of the European Parliament. I propose that Mrs Anneleen Van Bossuyt be proposed as a permanent Member of the European Parliament. I therefore propose that you present Mrs Anneleen Van Bossuyt as an effective member of the European Parliament. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-08-54-plenair-ip026x.u59	Since the calls for candidates for the mandate of member of the Federal Deontological Commission, published in the Belgian Official Journal of 23 July 2014 and 17 October 2014, did not provide sufficient candidates for the categories "former members of the Chamber and/or Senate' and "former managers', a new call for candidates for these categories was published in the Belgian Official Journal of 28 November 2014, in accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 20 November 2014. The appeals to candidates for the term of office of a member of the Federal Ethics Commission, published in the Belgian Monitor of 23 July 2014 and 17 October 2014, did not give rise to sufficient nominations for the categories "former members of the Chamber and/or the Senate" and "former representatives", a new appeal to candidates for these categories was published in the Belgian Monitor of 28 November 2014, in accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 20 November 2014. The Commission consists of six Dutch-speaking and six French-speaking members, each with one magistrate (or professor), three former members of the Chamber and/or Senate and two former mandaters. A maximum of two thirds of the members may be of the same sex. The Commission consists of six French-speaking members and six Dutch-speaking members, including for each linguistic role, one magistrate (or professor), three former members of the House and/or the Senate and two former representatives. A maximum of two thirds of the members may be of the same sex. The applications were to be submitted by 28 December 2014. Applications were to be submitted no later than 28 December 2014. Three applications were submitted within the prescribed deadline. Three applications were submitted within the prescribed time limit. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 8 January 2015, a fourth call for candidates for the categories "former members of the Chamber and/or Senate" and "former agents" will be published in the Belgian Official Journal. Applications shall be submitted no later than 30 days after publication of the call. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 8 January 2015, a fourth call for candidates for the categories "former members Chamber and/or Senate" and "former representatives" will be published in the Belgian Moniteur. Applications must be submitted no later than 30 days after the publication of the appeal. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-08-54-plenair-ip026x.u60	By letter dated 24 December 2014, Mr Dany Donnen announced that he had not submitted his candidacy for the term of office of member (expert) of the Supervisory Body for the police information. By letter of 24 December 2014, Mr. Dany Donnen reported that he had not applied for the term of office of a member (expert) of the Police Information Review Body. The Chamber shall take note of that information. The Chamber takes note of this information.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-08-54-plenair-ip026x.u61	The Government requested urgent treatment under Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when submitting the draft law on automated processing of personal data necessary for the Belgian passports and travel documents, No. 731/1. The Government requested urgency in accordance with Article 51 of the Regulation when the draft law on automated processing of personal data necessary for Belgian passports and travel documents was tabled, No. 731/1. I propose that we speak out on this question at the sitting and stand up. I propose that we take a stand on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-08-54-plenair-ip026x.u62	(...) Ladies and gentlemen, since I am not sure of the outcome of the vote, I propose that we proceed to the electronic vote on this question. Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 67 Yes No. 48 No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 116 Total As a result, the urgency is adopted. As a result, the urgency was accepted.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-08-54-plenair-ip026x.u63	The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. If there is no objection, I shall consider it adopted; in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be sent to the committees responsible. If there are no comments on this subject, I will take it into account as a matter of fact and refer the proposals back to the relevant committees in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 7 January 2015, I also propose that you consider: - the legislative proposal (Mrs Nahima Lanjri, Mr Franky Demon and Mrs Nathalie Muylle and Mrs Els Van Hoof) amending the law of 8 July 1964 on urgent medical assistance for journeys without transport in the context of urgent medical assistance, No. 733/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-08-54-plenair-ip026x.u64	- the bill (Ladies Leen Dierick, Nathalie Muylle and Griet Smaers and Mr Jef Van den Bergh) to regulate the book price, No. 742/1; - the legislative proposal (Mrs Leen Dierick, Nathalie Muylle and Griet Smaers and Mr Jef Van den Bergh) amending the law of 19 April 2014 inserting book VII "Payment and credit services" into the Code of Economic Law, incorporating the definitions inherent in Book VII and the penalties for infringements of Book VII, in Books I and XV of the Code of Economic Law and laying down various other provisions as regards the advertising of mortgage credit, No. 743/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-08-54-plenair-ip026x.u65	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 7 January 2015, I also propose that you take into account: - the proposal for a law (Ms. Nahima Lanjri, Mr. Franky Demon and Mrs. Nathalie Muylle and Els Van Hoof) amending the Act of 8 July 1964 on emergency medical aid in respect of non-transport races carried out in the context of emergency medical aid, No. 733/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-08-54-plenair-ip026x.u66	- the draft law (Ms. Leen Dierick, Nathalie Muylle and Griet Smaers and Mr. Jef Van den Bergh) regulating the price of books, No. 742/1; - the bill (Ms. Leen Dierick, Nathalie Muylle and Griet Smaers and Mr. Jef Van den Bergh) amending the Act of 19 April 2014 inserting Book VII "Payment and credit services" into the Code of Economic Law, incorporating the definitions specific to Book VII and the penalties for breaches of Book VII in Books I and XV of the Code of Economic Law, and introducing various other provisions, with regard to mortgage credit advertising, No. 743/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-08-54-plenair-ip026x.u67	Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. I also propose the motion for a resolution (Mrs Barbara Pas and Mr Filip Dewinter and Mr Jan Penris) condemning the unacceptable attack on the magazine Charlie Hebdo in Paris, No. 751/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-08-54-plenair-ip026x.u68	I also propose that you take into account the motion for a resolution (Ms Barbara Pas and MM. Filip Dewinter and Jan Penris) condemning the unacceptable attack on the weekly Charlie Hebdo in Paris, No. 751/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-08-54-plenair-ip026x.u69	Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-08-54-plenair-ip026x.u70	Mr President, I would like to ask the urgency of the motion for a resolution No. 751. First of all, I would like to thank the services for their speed, because the document was submitted this morning and is already ready to be considered. We have had a debate on this issue this afternoon. During that debate, I heard virtually everyone condemn violence, I heard almost everyone defend the right to freedom of expression, and I also heard a call for unity across all party boundaries. This motion for a resolution is an appeal to this effect. This text was literally approved yesterday by all parties in the Flemish Parliament. I would ask the urgency of this motion for a resolution, so that this Parliament too can formally condemn the horrific attack in Paris. Hence my request for urgency, Mr President.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-08-54-plenair-ip026x.u71	We shall vote on the request for urgency when we sit and stand.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-08-54-plenair-ip026x.u72	Ladies and gentlemen, we have a small problem. There are still four names on the naturalisation law, but the results of the secret ballot are not yet in. I therefore have to suspend the sitting. We will resume the sitting as soon as the results are in. The meeting is adjourned. The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-08-54-plenair-ip026x.u73	The sitting will be resumed. The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-08-54-plenair-ip026x.u74	This is the result of the secret vote on naturalizations. (695/2) This is the result of the naturalization vote. (695/2) Number of votes 123 Number of voters Valid votes 122 Votes valables Perfect majority 62 Absolute majority All naturalisations have achieved the absolute majority. The proposal of naturalisation laws will be voted on shortly. All naturalizations obtained an absolute majority. The vote on the proposed naturalization laws will take place in a moment. The proposal of the Committee on Naturalizations consists of three parts (A, B and C) each containing several articles to be adopted. The Naturalisations Commission's proposal is divided into three parts (A, B and C) each containing several articles to be adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-08-54-plenair-ip026x.u75	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the whole of the proposal for a naturalisation law (Part A) will take place later. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the whole proposal for a naturalisation law (Part A) will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-08-54-plenair-ip026x.u76	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the whole of the proposal for a naturalisation law (Part B) will take place later. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the whole proposal for a naturalisation law (Part B) will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-08-54-plenair-ip026x.u77	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the whole of the proposal for a naturalisation law (Part C) will take place later. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the whole proposal for a naturalisation law (Part C) will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-08-54-plenair-ip026x.u78	We shall now proceed to the vote on the proposal for naturalisation laws, the articles of which we have just discussed. We will proceed to vote on the proposed naturalization laws that we have just discussed. Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? [[No]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-08-54-plenair-ip026x.u79	Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 2) Yes 117 Yes No. 3...................................................................................................................... 3...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total [[120]] Total Consequently, the Court adopts the proposal of naturalisation law (Part A). It will be submitted to the King for ratification. Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the proposed naturalization law (Part A). It will be subject to Royal Assent. Mrs Nahima Lanjri voted in favour.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-08-54-plenair-ip026x.u80	Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? [[No]] Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-08-54-plenair-ip026x.u81	Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the proposed naturalization law (Part B). It will be subject to Royal Assent. Consequently, the Court adopts the proposal of naturalisation law (Part B). It will be submitted to the King for ratification.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-08-54-plenair-ip026x.u82	Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? [[No]] Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]] (vote/vote 2) Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the proposed naturalization law (Part C). It will be subject to Royal Assent. Consequently, the Court adopts the proposal of naturalisation law (Part C). It will be submitted to the King for ratification.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-08-54-plenair-ip026x.u83	Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? [[No]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 3) Yes 121 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 121 Total Accordingly, the board adopts the proposal to reject. Consequently, the Court accepts the rejection proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-08-54-plenair-ip026x.u84	Mr President, my vote has not been taken into account; I am voting in favour.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-08-54-plenair-ip026x.u85	We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for Thursday 15 January 2015. We must proceed to the approval of the agenda of the sitting on Thursday, 15 January 2015. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 15 January 2015 at 2.15 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next meeting on Thursday, 15 January 2015, at 2.15 p.m.
