ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic168x.u1	Question No 2375 by Mrs Fonck is transformed into a written question. Questions Nos 3277 and 3513 by Mr Raskin have been postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic168x.u2	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, this question dates back to 24 February and may well be dated. The UN Special Envoy for Trafficking in Human Beings and Modern Slavery visited Belgium and, unfortunately, had talks about inhumane working conditions in our country, including transport, construction, agriculture and horticulture, the food industry, carwashes and so on. We found it strange that our country was also visited by this special UN envoy. In 2013 and 2014, the Social Inspectorate opened a hundred files on suspected cases of economic exploitation and 41 and 37 minutes respectively were transferred to the Public Prosecutor's Office. You yourself have also announced a number of measures. Mr Secretary of State, I have the following specific questions. Did you have a meeting with the UN Envoy, Mrs. Urmila Bhoola, as the competent Secretary of State? If so, what were the findings? Is there a report on the extent of these inhuman working conditions in our country? Were other European countries also visited by the UN Envoy? What conclusions have you drawn on this matter?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic168x.u3	Mr President, Mr Geerts, I would like to make it clear that when Mrs Urmila Bhoola visited Belgium, she met several ministers and secretaries of state involved in the fight against modern slavery, as well as representatives of various administrations involved. The visit was organized by the FPS Foreign Office. I cannot tell you whether she has visited other countries. Perhaps my colleague Reynders will be able to give you more information on this. I had indeed the opportunity to meet Mrs Urmila Bhoola. There were also several representatives of the Social Inspectorate. As you know, modern slavery in our country is covered by the concept of trafficking in human beings, which means the exploitation of individuals in various sectors. It may be sexual exploitation, but it may also be economic exploitation by labour. We have been given an explanation of how our Social Inspectorate can combat the economic exploitation of persons in the context of an employment relationship, based on Article 433quinquies of the Criminal Code, which deals with trafficking in human beings in the form of employing people in conditions contrary to human dignity. That's strictly sanctioned. There are some figures. In 2013 and 2014, around 100 cases of suspected economic exploitation were launched. 41 and 36 minutes were forwarded to the Public Prosecutor's Office respectively. The main risk sectors in 2013 and 2014 were construction, agriculture and horticulture, bars, domestic labour, the food industry, the transport sector and carwashes. We therefore find economic exploitation in the most diverse and sometimes atypical sectors. The most common nationalities were Romanians, Bulgarians, Moroccans, Tunisians, Brazilians, Pakistanis, Bengales, Indians, Chinese, Nigeris, Burkineese and Togolese. In reply to your fourth question, the 2015 Action Plan for the fight against social fraud pays particular attention to the fight against economic exploitation by labour. There are specially established cells within the Social Inspectorate for this purpose. The so-called ECOSOC cells will continue to play a leading role in this respect. This is done in close cooperation with the judicial authorities. As far as your question on joint and several liability is concerned, I should like to point out that joint and several liability in respect of wages is already to the benefit of the workers who are victims. However, I know that within the interdepartmental coordination cell for the fight against human trafficking and trafficking in human beings, we are thinking of a customised joint and several liability for victims of trafficking in human beings. There is therefore an inter-departmental coordination cell for combating trafficking in human beings and trafficking in human beings. I have noted that in recent years several international institutions and many countries have been inspired by our approach. Our services of the Social Inspectorate therefore play a leading role in dealing with trafficking in human beings. Finally, I can inform you that the United Nations Special Rapporteur will present a report containing its decisions and recommendations at the UN Human Rights Council meeting in September 2015.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic168x.u4	Mr Secretary of State, following on from the report, I will perhaps ask a new question in September or October.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic168x.u5	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, every entrepreneur in our country must, in order to be able to respond to a call for tenders for a construction site, have an approval issued by the SPF Economy. This is a guarantee of quality and safety for both customers and workers in these construction companies. This approval therefore establishes a relationship of trust between the entrepreneur and his client. However, general contractors are not always competent to carry out certain work. In doing so, they are obliged to use subcontractors who, for their part, are not subject to approval in order to carry out the latter. This situation can lead to abuses on their part both against the general contractor who employs them and against the contractor or tax and social administrations. I point out here the false self-employed or the practice of social dumping. An approval of subcontractors would facilitate the lives of general contractors who would thus be able to rely on them, if necessary. This would also limit tax and social fraud of any kind The idea of a certification of subcontractors was considered by the Federation of General Construction Entrepreneurs. On the occasion of the hearings held by the Commission, his managing director referred to him. Mr Secretary of State, is it possible, administratively, to put in place such a measure? What practical difficulties could be encountered on this occasion, bearing in mind that the use of subcontractors by these companies should not be increased?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic168x.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would first like to distinguish between registration and approval. Until September 1, 2012, an entrepreneur had to be registered with the federal authority. But this practice has been considered by Europe to be contrary to the free movement of services. At European level, it is therefore no longer possible to reintroduce the procedure for registering entrepreneurs. As you rightly pointed out in your question, a prime contractor must be licensed, which in itself does not pose any problems for the prime contractor. The current licensing regulations apply only to the contractor, and therefore not to the contractors and subcontractors. In the strategic plan for the construction sector, in a joint declaration by the social partners in the sector dated April 2014, it was requested to legally require that each subcontractor in the chain of subcontractors be approved in the class and for the categories or sub-categories of work that coincide with the value and nature of the work licensed. The social partners in the construction sector are still of the opinion that the further down the chain, the more problematic the situation is. Thus, I fully understand the concern expressed in your question that all subcontractors should be able to obtain approval. As this issue has been the subject of the strategic plan for the construction sector, it is therefore very logically also the subject of discussions at the Construction Round Table with which I aim to carry out strategic measures supported by the sector. In addition to my office, my colleagues Borsus and Peeters are also represented at this round table. The fact that Mr. Peeters' firm is involved in this is important, as it is the FPS Economy that manages the contractor's accreditation system. In the coming weeks and months, we will examine how the approval of the subcontractors you refer to can be legally made compulsory. In the meantime, please note that in the area of public works offers, existing legislation already allows for the requirement that the subcontractor be approved for the part of the work entrusted to him.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic168x.u7	Minister, thank you. You answered my question perfectly. I look forward to seeing the results of the round table. I hope that we will be able to participate closely in the proposals to be made.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic168x.u8	Mr Secretary of State, there are several advantages to a non-transferable payment of wages. It is not only safer for employer and employee, it also leads to better management of the employee's budget. Moreover, non-cash payments can also help to respect the minimum wage and thus be useful in the fight against social fraud. Such matters can then be checked, which cannot be paid in cash and one would find that one is below the minimum wage. For these reasons, our group tabled a legislative proposal to make the transferable payment compulsory. I am also pleased that since this week there has been an opinion from the NAR on this proposal. I hope that we will soon be able to discuss it in our committee and vote on it. In the meantime, we see that a similar initiative has been taken in the Netherlands, whereby a certain part of the wage has to be paid in a compulsory way. What do you think are the benefits of a non-transferable payment? Do you share my analysis? How do you feel about a liability of the overnight payment? What do you think of the Dutch approach? Perhaps in the meantime you have also taken note of the NAR's advice. He is already positive in relation to the proposal, but he is asking for a number of exceptions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic168x.u9	I am an absolute supporter of the non-transferable payment of wages. I am very much in favour of all the means of tackling social fraud, exploitation, low wages and dumping. In an answer to Mr Raskin, I have already referred to an agreement to take a majority initiative. Of course, it is not for me as Secretary of State to say that we will support the legislative proposal, because I do not have the right to vote in Parliament. It is my group that has to do that. I have heard from Mr Peeters that an opinion from the NAR has been received. I don't know what it says, but I hear from you now that it's positive. So that's two positive things. I repeat the advantages, because you know that I have had experience of this in the past. The overnight payout is cheaper. Thanks to automation, money must no longer be traded. This method of payment is safer, reliable, processing is more efficient and, above all, less susceptible to fraud. In the Netherlands, the obligation to pay as of 1 July 2015 is introduced to combat the evasion of the legal minimum wage more effectively. In Belgium, pay ments are still made on a hand-to-hand basis. Each final payment will give the employee a statement. In addition, the employer has to make an individual account for each employee on an annual basis, enabling the labour inspectorate to verify compliance with minimum standards. There is no problem in itself, but if everyone pays lip service, fraud is less possible. I think that's good. I prefer to close the front door for fraud rather than the back door, because that means getting the money from people who no longer have it or who are no longer able to find it. Such an obligation is therefore a good thing, even more so in the case of the posting of workers. Perhaps we should consider with the European Union whether we cannot generalise this obligation. I will work with Kris Peeters to see how we can make this a European battle point in the light of the fight against social fraud, so that the obligation applies everywhere, which facilitates the control of possible posting fraud.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic168x.u10	Mr Secretary of State, I am pleased that you share our view that pay for wages has many advantages. We want to move towards a system of full pay and not, as in the Netherlands, just a certain percentage. We want this, above all, because it is better for the employee, but also because it is possible to deal with possible forms of fraud in this way. Today there is still cash to be paid and an ex post settlement is made, which does not always correspond. Then there's fraud. It can be said that an employee has received EUR 1 500, but it cannot be verified whether that amount has actually been paid. If the wage is paid, it is paid in a secure framework for the employee, because the salary is on his account number. So he actually got that money. We are pleased that the NAR has given an opinion in this direction. However, he asked for a number of exceptions, which could be waived. There is no doubt that we can amend the proposal accordingly. I hope that we will soon be able to approve the bill in committee with the majority and perhaps also with the opposition.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic168x.u11	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, fictional employment is a problem that arises here and there in our society. You have already referred to it in your policy statement. Fictitious employment and fictitious companies are part of organised fraud. We will make a strong effort to combat fraud, first and foremost in order to strengthen our social protection. One of the things that I think we should take into account here is the Fund for the compensation of workers made redundant in the event of the closure of enterprises, the so-called FSO or the Fund for the Closure of Enterprises. It's a lot of files. In 2013, the FSO processed some 12 000 new closure files and received 22 488 new individual applications for such compensation for wages and allowances still due to the employer to its employees; 24 456 employees were effectively compensated for a total amount of more than 223 million euros. These are figures from the FSO's annual report. You will see that the amounts involved are not small. Apparently, payments by the FSO increased by almost half annually over the period 2009-2013. That's why I have a few specific questions. Firstly, how is a check on the applications carried out at the FSO? We must be sure that the applications are justified and that no system has been set up with a fictitious or temporary company, especially with a view to obtaining such compensation. Secondly, how does the FSO deal specifically with fraud? How does this work with other services? In that context, I refer more specifically to the Foreign Affairs Office. You also replied very recently to a written question from me stating that the FSO's central database does not keep a systematic record of the nationality and, where appropriate, the residence permit of the employer. As you know, there have been a number of problems in this area in Ghent in the past with people who had included a number of partners and employees in their case, in order to obtain a residence permit. It is clear that these matters are also monitored at the FSO and that there is a specific cooperation from the FSO. Hence my questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic168x.u12	Mr President, Mr Dedecker, in the light of the fictional employment situation, it is important to know that the Fund for the Closure of Enterprises only intervenes in the case of employees employed in a bankrupt undertaking. Almost immediately after the bankruptcy, the FSO launches an investigation into the applicability of the closure legislation to the affected failed company. An automatic flow of personnel data, as known in the Dimona or DmfA database of the RSZ, to the FSO's own production bank, is already taking place at that time. This data transfer is of course done via the secure KSZ environment, i.e. via the Crossroads Bank of Social Security. During the investigation, the curator is asked every time whether he has knowledge of possible social fraud within the company. Where a grant application form is submitted to the FSO, an immediate check shall be made as to whether the receiver has signed the application. On the basis of that signature, which is required by law, the FSO may assume that the employee concerned has provided services for the bankrupt undertaking, on the one hand, and that the failed undertaking still owes him funds, on the other hand. At the same time, all other social documents, such as the C4, the pay sheets and the contract of employment, are also consulted, which may or may not indicate whether the person concerned has actually provided employment benefits for the undertaking which is the subject of the conclusion. To your second question on how specific fraud is being combated, I can answer the following. In addition to the information the FSO receives through the curator about possible fictitious employment, it is also informed through the RVA's distribution fraud cell of the results of investigations into social fraud, both by the RVA and the RSZ. If no application has yet been received, a subsequent submission of this information will lead to a negative decision. This also applies if the application was already delivered, but no payment was made because the investigation into the intervention had not yet been completed. However, if a payment has already been made before the FSO receives the information, the FSO shall recover the undue payment from the person concerned. As far as your third question is concerned, as I have already mentioned, there is systematic cooperation with the curators concerned. In addition, the FSO also receives information related to fictitious employment via the structured data flow of the RVA's distribution fraud cell. The latter also receives the results of the investigations carried out by the RSZ in a structured manner, which led to the removal of the workers concerned. For the supplementary question on the Foreign Affairs Office, which you had not announced, I refer to my action plan on combating social fraud. In particular, the emphasis was placed on research and the fight against fictitious companies. I therefore refer to the action plan on social fraud which has since been approved by the government and published. The action plan therefore states that we will tackle the fight against fictitious companies.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic168x.u13	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your comprehensive answer and certainly for your answer to my last question, which was indeed not included in the written version, but which was addressed in a written question that you answered last week. So it wasn't entirely unexpected, I suppose.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic168x.u14	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic168x.u15	You have indeed answered your written questions. That is a good thing.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic168x.u16	If you have already received an answer to the written question, why do you ask them again orally?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic168x.u17	It was the ideal opportunity because we are talking about the FSO. Your written reply states that the FSO does not keep any data on nationality. If you say in your action plan that you will step up the fight against fictitious companies, which are used, among other things, as a migratory channel, then I believe that linking these databases should be a fairly simple task. This should be addressed as a matter of priority. It's the most efficient way to fight those things.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic168x.u18	Thank you for the suggestion.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic168x.u19	Mr Geerts, I give you the floor for your question on point No. 7 of the agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic168x.u20	Mr Secretary of State, at the beginning of March we were told that 15 000 targeted checks were carried out by the Social Inspectorate services in 2014 to combat social dumping. A third, 5 568 inspections detected infringements, mainly in the construction sector. The checks were carried out according to certain data mining techniques, so that more targeted checks could be carried out. In the wake of that, you said that we should look at the posting period. You have the support of our group because we believe that there is an effective problem. I have the following questions. In which other sectors were such targeted controls carried out? How many controls were carried out in the transport sector? Which and how many infringements were found there? Do you also have the numbers for 2012 and 2013, so that we can evaluate in a number of years' time whether or not the ambition you have set has been met by evaluating the number of checks? What are the plans for 2015? Last week we had a hearing with the Court of Auditors. One of the comments concerned the central inspection database at the FPS Mobility. I do know that this is not within your competence, but within the competence of Minister Galant. However, since you have already discussed this matter with her, I would like to ask you the following question. One of the comments on the fight against social fraud, especially in the transport sector, is that it is a European story. What actions will you take to convince your European fellow Members to take part in the fight against social dumping and posting fraud?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic168x.u21	Mr Geerts, I thought you were going to ask your question 2691. Your question No 2690, which you have just asked, is attached to question No 4011 by Mrs Caroline Cassart-Mailleux, which is about to arrive. That is why I invited you to put your question under agenda item 7. I suggest you ask this question now.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic168x.u22	Mr Secretary of State, I do not need to explain cabotage. The other members of the committee also know what this is about. We note that there is a problem with whether or not to check cabotage. The Court of Auditors also made this very clear last week. I have tabled a legislative proposal on this matter. Of course, everyone from the majority is free to support that. We believe that the problem can be tackled. I've also been looked across borders. In Finland there is a system whereby only ten cabotage journeys can be carried out within a period of three months. In addition, there is a more stringent joint and several liability. The argument that the European Commission should not do so was accepted by the Finns. A similar initiative will probably also be taken in France. Do you share the view, Mr Secretary of State, that action should be speeded up against infringements of cabotage arrangements? Can you give the figures for 2012, 2013 and 2014? Are specific checks carried out on this cabotage directive? What interpretation of cabotage does the Belgian Social Inspectorate use? We note in the field of controls that there is a difference in interpretation by province. The latter was confirmed by the Court of Auditors last week.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic168x.u23	Mr Geerts, I cannot answer all your questions, but I will answer the first question. Yes, I believe that more stringent action should be taken against infringements of the cabotage regime. That is a competence of colleague Galant and the FPS Mobility. I believe, however, that it is necessary for me to work with the other ministers to combat social fraud, as with other forms of fraud. After all, I don't have my own administration, except for steering the SIOD. For RVA checks, I work with Mr. Peeters, for the RSZ with Mrs. De Block. When it comes to Mobility, I work with Mrs Galant. A round table on transport was organised on 31 March 2015. I then brought together the social partners and the administration for a social consultation. We then agreed on closer cooperation between the various inspection services, in which, in addition to the FPS Mobility and the Social Inspectorate, the customs services, which are the responsibility of Mrs Sleurs, are also involved. I believe that cooperation is best placed in a protocol. Better cooperation and control of the various inspections in the transport sector are the main recommendations in a critical report from the Court of Auditors at the beginning of this year. I also intend to make agreements with the other Benelux countries. You are right to point out that Belgium is a small country. The cabotage rules can be broken very easily, because Belgium is, of course, a very small country with neighbouring countries that are very close. I would like to look at the other Benelux countries together with France and Germany to ensure uniform application of the rules on cabotage, including control and sanctions. In other words, in the fight against social dumping in the transport sector, I believe that we are working very closely with the various services and between the different countries involved in that part of Europe.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic168x.u24	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for the answer. It is true, of course, that there is a shared competence with Mrs Galant, Mr Peeters and Mr Geens and Mrs Sleurs. Last week there was a hearing and I asked for the work in the Infrastructure Committee to be completed. There will be hearings and I hope that there will also be representatives of your cabinet, so that there will be some coordination in the government. That is the most concrete criticism in the Court of Auditors' report. Because of the complexity of the file, someone in the government has to pull the file. I hope you will do so under your authority.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic168x.u25	In view of the fact that social fraud is now in the hands of a separate Secretary of State, I can concentrate on that. I fully realize it's my responsibility.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic168x.u26	Mr Secretary of State, my question dates back some time ago. You were quite keen in the media on 3 March 2015 for catering shops that would not have applied for a registered cash register system by the deadline of 28 February 2015. I quote: "If I were the Social Inspectorate, I would check these matters thoroughly. They clearly have something to hide. Thousands of restaurants already work with a white register. If they can be profitable, why not the rest? Those are your words, Mr Secretary of State. Although the registered cashiers have a mainly fiscal objective, they will only make an attendance registration, without time record................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... However, the question is how you will transfer your recommendation to the inspection services. Will inspections by the inspection services on unregistered cases be part of the 2015 SIOD Action Plan? Or are you not planning to do that until 2016? If I understand correctly, the action plan has already been discussed at the Council of Ministers. I can see from this that fewer controls have been planned rather than more. The tax ruling VAT, No. E.T.127.190 states that the cases that have registered in good time must use the cash register already in 2015. There are, as you say yourself, also catering shops that have already put the cash register into operation in 2014. In fact, the operators who have not yet registered are creating disloyal competition in the sector. I follow your suggestion to keep an extra eye on these matters, but will you also make that clear? Will the targeted controls at the Catering Establishments that did not have a registered cash register system on 28 February 2015 be included in the 2015 Action Plan?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic168x.u27	Mrs Kitir, I am absolutely in agreement with you: registered cash registers have a particular fiscal objective. You said it yourself. Some people may wonder what the Secretary of State for Combating Social Fraud has to do with this. Above all, we want to have a clear indication where something is not right. Although twenty thousand people have already registered and although more than a thousand already work with the white register, apparently just over ten thousand others are waiting to register. We have made it clear that there is no punishment for those who register late. However, it does seem logical to me that people who linger to register are charging suspicion that something is not right. I think you're right. The catering industry is an important economic sector for me, with a lot of employment. In particular, many groups of opportunity are employed there. One of the major challenges of the white cash register is not only to ensure that things are in good fiscal order, but also that they are socially sound. In other words, workers must be given a statute which is taken seriously so that they do not have to resort to undeclared work. Thanks to the efforts of the FPS Finance, there is now an opportunity to tackle undeclared work better, which is my competence. I have always said that favourable measures should be put in place for the catering businesses which are already using or will be using the registered cash register systems. For a number of hospitality stores the registration was difficult or impossible because some data in the Crossroads Bank of Enterprises was not up-to-date. It has been explained to me that there were problems at the Crossroads Bank of Enterprises for matters that have existed for a long time and that have been taken over from father to son. We have given these people two months to get things right. We are still tolerant, because in the coming weeks we will encourage all the businesses that have not yet registered to do so with the FPS Finance. There is still no mention of punishment, but it is logical that people who linger to register will gain control. For us control is a means and not an end in itself. The objective is, in fact, the notification of the sector. We are also going to take accompanying measures, including a charter with the social and tax inspection services. We will not use the white checkout as a means of demonstrating retroactively that things were not in order in the past. I stress that I have not yet mentioned in the 2015 action plan for the SIOD that things that have not registered will be dealt with harder. However, it seems logical to me that people who register show the will and motivation to deal effectively with things correctly and that the things that linger... This will be included in the 2016 Action Plan, if the white checkout enters into force. This will be done effectively, as we have been able to take sufficient additional measures. However, in the 2015 Action Plan, I am still considering a transition year.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic168x.u28	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. We are pleased to hear that you agree with us. However, I remain somewhat hungry when it comes to how you intend to achieve that objective. I regret that you will not include this in the action plan until 2016. You are right to say that the catering industry is a separate sector, which is also important for people from opportunity groups. It is right that these people can work with a full contract, under good conditions. I am very concerned because you have decided to increase overtime, to relax and to make it cheaper. I just don't want those overtime hours to launder the black overtime that there were without actually getting any extra income for social security. The measures you have taken are actually there for other purposes, to make work more flexible and easier for the catering industry. It should not be the intention simply to regularise what is happening in black, without additional income for social security. There is another point on the verge of my question about which I have a lot of questions. Can you confirm that an operator with less than 10 % turnover from food is not obliged to work with a registered cash register?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic168x.u29	Mr President, I will reply. Mrs Kitir, we share the same concerns. We need to be able to tell the black money and stop those black circuits. We must also, of course, be aware that the decisions on the measures have been taken by the government, but that they still have to and must be implemented in Parliament. In other words, for the measures we have as deadline 1 October 2015. I will not launch a witch hunt for the hospitality industry before the measures are in place. We have the same objective, namely fair competition in the catering industry. However, we are not going to turn around and launch a witch hunt by means of controls before the measures have been taken. It is absolutely important that we first introduce the measures. Your question is in fact a question for the Secretary of State for Combating Tax Fraud and for the Minister of Finance. However, I can confirm that items with less than 10% of food turnover should not have a white register. That is a choice they have to make. If they are close to that 10 %, I would advise them to take a white checkout. They have better measures than those who do not have a white register. However, if they do not obtain 10% turnover from food and therefore only from drink, they should not have a white cash register.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic168x.u30	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply. Minister, I would just like to clarify that I am not pleading for a witch hunt here. However, I would argue that the two measures should be in parallel. One measure is for 2015. That is why I would have found it more interesting if you had included it in the initial plan for 2015. However, I understand that it will be for 2016. We will follow up the file and question you about it afterwards.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic168x.u31	Mr Secretary of State, I should like to inform you that questions No 2690 by Mr David Geerts, No 2739 by Mrs Kattrin Jadin and No 4011 by Mrs Caroline Cassart-Mailleux are postponed at their request.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic168x.u32	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, this is the first time I have asked you in this committee. Having said that, I would like to apologize because I realize that this question was tabled a long time ago and that, in doing so, I am not sure that it is still relevant. It's about what you said. That said, the figures for black work in the various sectors in our country are now known and they are proving to be very important. In November, you announced the organization of a round table with the sectors most affected by this phenomenon, the aim being to avoid certain traps related to black work. Mr. Secretary of State, what is the status of the proceedings today? What about the calendar?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic168x.u33	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as announced in my policy statement on social fraud of 1 December last year, I hastened to organise round tables with the risk sectors of construction and transport. I'll start discussions with the Horeca soon. In the coming months, round tables will be launched with the cleaning and taxi sectors. The aim of these round tables is to reach an agreement with the social partners with a view to taking logical and effective measures aimed at structurally strengthening the existing arsenal in the fight against social fraud, with the support of the aforementioned sectors. In order to achieve this result, the competent administrations and inspections will also be represented at these round tables, which will, in particular, allow for the immediate verification of the feasibility of certain proposals. The offices Borsus, Peeters and Galant are also concerned. The measures resulting from the consultation that took place at the round table will, after a legal review, be precisely listed and translated into a tripartite agreement and an action plan that I will then defend within the government. Naturally, prevention is better than cure. Concertation should not necessarily lead to complementary repressive measures, but can also lead to the conclusion of partnership agreements. In this regard, priorities will need to be set with the inspection services. It is true that the setting up of round tables for specific sectors is part of my policy. If, pending this decision process, urgent measures are required, I will not hesitate to take them. On this point, I refer you to the Social Fraud 2015 Action Plan, which contains several priority provisions to combat fraud in terms of social contributions, social benefits and cross-border social fraud. This plan was approved by the government on April 3. The fight against work in the dark is a priority for us and will remain so. The Coupole of the Federal Inspection Services will pursue joint control actions which, via data mining and data matching, will spare companies in good faith as much as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic168x.u34	Thank you very much, Secretary of State. Mrs Jadin, will we move on to your next question?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic168x.u35	Mr. President, let me reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic168x.u36	I thought there shouldn't be a line.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic168x.u37	Mr President, you are not going to think in my place! That wouldn't be right. And I wouldn't allow myself if the roles were reversed either. Secretary of State, thank you very much for your answers. I look forward to your method in terms of the goals to be achieved. On the other hand, I had the opportunity to question Messrs. Peeters and Borsus. We can only hope that something proactive emerges from this round table. I share your view that social fraud should not be dealt with solely from a repressive perspective. We must give ourselves every chance to combat it much more effectively.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic168x.u38	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, many compatriots receive state aid through integration income or other forms of assistance such as the provision of social housing. Such assistance is indispensable and necessary. That is to say, as I am told in my region, we are confronted with social fraud with malicious people who are undermining the system as a whole, which is regrettable. One form of social fraud comes in particular from beneficiaries of assistance with real estate abroad and sometimes to a considerable extent. They benefit from social security while receiving large rents from the exploitation of property located in other countries. The difficulty is great because if we can easily find owners in Belgium, the identification of property owners abroad is more difficult. Mr Secretary of State, can we assess whether this issue is important? Do you have any figures that could testify to this? You were talking earlier about cross-border social fraud. What are the collaborations and actions that we can put in place to identify those citizens receiving aid in Belgium while still owning property abroad?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic168x.u39	Mr President, Mrs Jadin, on your first question, as I have already explained, any type of social fraud is important, but it is difficult to determine the extent of this type of fraud. In order to carry out the social surveys prior to the granting of social aid, the CPAS have access to the flows of the Carrefour de la Sécurité Sociale Bank, allowing to verify the resources of known applicants in Belgium. At present, however, such CPAS do not have technical access to control over resources of foreign origin, including any real property. As far as your second question is concerned, within the Benelux framework, three working groups have been set up, one of which is aimed at the exchange of information on social fraud. This group is made up of representatives from the three countries and is working on a project for the exchange of information limited to the Benelux territory. On the other hand, in the Netherlands, there is an international office, Internationaal Bureau Fraud Information (IBF), which coordinates on-the-spot investigations, not only in Europe, but also with Turkey, for example, concerning the property situation. The surveys are carried out by the staff of this office who speak the language and know the country through the embassy. This type of organisation does not exist at the moment in Belgium, but I will study the possibility of considering it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic168x.u40	Mr Secretary of State, thank you. Thus, instruments exist in other countries. These elements of comparative law can also serve as avenues for us. As you said, it is difficult to determine whether or not a need exists. As a first step, the increased cooperation that you are considering within the Benelux can be decisive in finding the figures and, ultimately, eventually bringing to fruition a new instrument which, I repeat, is interesting.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic168x.u41	Mr Secretary of State, I submitted this question on 1 April. I heard that you organised a round table with the administration and the social partners at the end of March. I have said on several occasions that there is a need for additional measures to organise checks in the road transport sector. We have already put forward a number of proposals in the Chamber. Could you give me a briefing on the meeting? Who was around the table? What measures were discussed? What measures have been taken?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic168x.u42	Mr Geerts, in the last few months I have been in cooperation with the trade unions and the employers' organisations in the transport sector represented on the joint committee on transport and logistics. A table of 50 possible measures has already been drawn up because of one or more social partners. At the round table itself, I asked all the organisations involved to propose five of their most priority actions. These points will then be the subject of further meetings, in which, together with the social partners and administrations, concrete consideration will be given to how they can be translated into concrete actions. The aim is to achieve specific feasible measures, which are also legally justified. At the table were ABVV-BTB, ACV-Transcom and ACLVB. On the employers' side FEBETRA, TLV and UPTR were represented. What measures should I choose? Firstly, we need to focus on the action points on which we can reach maximum agreement and there is convergence, and not on action points that some partner or administration feels are not feasible or that it is legally fragile. Europe sometimes finds that they are in breach of European law, which means that we have to deal with the European Court of Justice. We shall first draw up a protocol agreement on cooperation between the social inspection services, as I have already said. In addition, existing legislation needs to be better monitored. European legislation is sometimes interpreted differently in different countries. It is important that the European rules are clear and applied in the same way for everyone. This is certainly the case for the transport sector. Together with the Benelux countries, France, Germany, the Scandinavian countries and the Baltic States, we must agree to take account of European transport policy. European Commissioner Marianne Thyssen is currently preparing the Mobility Package by the autumn, which will update the rules for the free movement of workers. We have also had a debate on the digital registration systems, the so-called white register in the transport sector. The extension of the electronic tachograph to lighter vehicles and the addition of GPS tracking can be an important weapon in the fight against social dumping. This is currently the subject of European discussions. The social partners are not averse to these systems. However, we must bear in mind a level playing field in Europe. If we take measures in Belgium that make competition with other countries even more difficult, we will find ourselves once again in an unfeasible situation. We must pay attention to more stringent measures at national or Benelux level. We must ensure that we have European allies in this area. So, Mr Geerts, I hope to reach conclusions shortly after the summer and also to reach a European agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic168x.u43	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Mr Secretary of State, there must be a level playing field. For us, however, there must also be a social level playing field. In the future, with the advent of the digital tachograph, there must be control possibilities, not only for Belgian firms, but also for other transport companies. This may or may not be combined with a mileage tax imposed by the Regions. The electronics available in this area should consider how to develop better and the same playing field for all.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic168x.u44	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, I will be brief. This matter was already the subject of questions in plenary. I am asking you the question here, as a member of the government responsible for privacy, because the starting point is the compatibility of checks on the energy consumption of supporters with privacy. Low energy consumption seems to me to be a very subjective one. Is it not a breach of privacy when energy companies have to build databases, whose data are passed on to the government? In my view, this will not only be the case for supporters. Indeed, sometimes there is also tax fraud in the case of persons who have their place of residence in municipalities where no municipal taxes are to be paid. Mr Secretary of State, I have the following specific questions. Can the government simply request information from a group of people without a specific case of fraud being detected? An opinion was requested from the Privacy Commission. Is that advice there yet? My question dates back to 9 April. If not, when do you expect that advice? What is the definition of low energy consumption? On what criteria can energy consumption be regarded as low or not? What private data can the Social Inspectorate access? How many findings of residential fraud by beneficiaries were there in 2014? What is the total amount of fraud detected? Why should this technique be applied to checks on beneficiaries, but not to checks on tax fraud? Have you consulted with your colleague, Secretary of State, Mr Sleurs?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic168x.u45	Mr Geerts, I am trying to continue and improve as much as possible the policy of my predecessor, Mr Crombez, in the fight against social fraud. Mr Crombez has achieved good results on the ground. I therefore believe that it is appropriate to address, as far as possible, illegal practices, both in the area of benefit fraud and in the area of contribution fraud, at source. I do indeed intend to provide the services of the Social Inspectorate, on the basis of consumer data, no invoices for water, electricity and gas, with an additional indicator in order to better detect the residence fraud. As far as your first question is concerned, it is not my intention at all to stigmatize a particular group of people, quite the contrary. Data are collected only from addresses with energy or water consumption which significantly exceed the average consumption values. If the value is zero, it is logical that the address is included in the data. That is also the case if that value is exceptionally low, so that it seems impossible for someone to live there. The energy companies know about whether or not an address is occupied on the basis of the subscription. We can detect that fairly well. In the light of these measures, it is not intended to transmit the energy data of all Belgian families automatically and systematically, but to make a clear selection of energy data first, after applying a clear derogation limit, which we will determine by royal decision. The detailed rules are laid down very precisely, based on a number of parameters that will be determined by the social security institutions, such as the RVA and the RIZIV. They will also be assessed in relation to proportionality by the Sectoral Committee on Social Security and Health, which was set up in the Commission for the Protection of Privacy, in the popular sense the Privacy Committee. In addition, only those addresses with abnormally low or high consumption are communicated to the social security institutions concerned and whose residents receive benefits. Citizens who do not receive benefits will not be in the database anyway. We must only have those addresses where benefits are received and where there is abnormally low or high consumption. We will have the match done by an independent third party, in particular by the Crossroads Bank of Social Security, under the control of the said Sectoral Committee of Social Security and of the Commission's Health for the Protection of Privacy. This should allow the Social Inspectorate to use this anonymous data as an additional indicator for data mining in order to verify whether or not the reported consumption data corresponds to the residence data. I asked for the advice of the Privacy Commission; it would be strange if I did not do so as Secretary of State responsible for Privacy. However, I have not yet received the opinion. Just so we're clear, there's no question of looking at private data. I don't have any need to have invoices checked. You also asked a question about a low energy bill. There are existing limit values or consumption values. In other words, something which is very different from the average energy consumption is already possible. In reply to your fourth question, I can tell you that in 2014 32 536 unemployed were checked, with 10 566 unemployed in violation. This led to more than EUR 36 million in amounts recovered. As regards child benefit, FAMIFED's Fraud cell dealt with 258 files in 2014. The benefits unduly paid amounted to EUR 1 000 319. Only in the event of unemployment benefits and family allowances unduly paid as a result of residence fraud will EUR 37 786 650.57 be recovered. The targeted push of energy data allows this to be corrected. As far as your last question is concerned, I am solely responsible for combating social fraud, not the fight against tax fraud. As you have also seen in the agreement on budgetary control, the tax and social inspection services will optimise their data in consultation, so that indications of social fraud can also lead to the discovery of tax fraud and vice versa. It is not because there are separate secretaries of state for social fraud and for tax fraud that they do not cooperate. Budgetary control provides for this to yield more.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic168x.u46	Mr Secretary of State, the legal basis, the royal decree, has yet to be issued. We can only evaluate this when it is published, after the advice of the Privacy Committee and other committees. I only fear that a distinction will be made. This will have to go through the review of the principle of equality. Of course, social fraud must be combated, but tax fraud must also be combated. I shouldn't tell you that. But now I have the impression that the balance for the two State Secretarys in this government is not in balance. I think that's a problem. I am therefore asking questions to get the figures. I certainly cannot get the impression that the balance in the fight against social and fiscal fraud in this government is totally out of balance.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic168x.u47	Mr. Clarinval is not present.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic168x.u48	Mr Secretary of State, for the record, this question relates to posting fraud. Some time ago, the Commission decided to challenge the anti-abuse clause introduced by the Programme Act of 27 December 2012 and to initiate proceedings before the European Court of Justice. The previous government, composed of Socialists, Christian Democrats and Liberals, has approved the anti-abuse law against posting fraud in Parliament. If someone in Belgium works as a posted worker from another country and already pays social security contributions there, the worker obviously does not have to pay them here. We have, among other things, developed a form A1. The legal text also provides that the inspection services may require a payment of contributions in Belgium in the event of fraud. The main issue is the fight against social dumping in transport and construction. Other fellow Members have already asked questions about this. It remains a very topical issue. We can see that the number of bankruptcies in these sectors has increased considerably in recent years. For five to six years, we have found that wider legislation and proper application of legislation are necessary to create a level playing field for companies and for the employment opportunities of workers in those sectors. Mr Secretary of State, what steps have you taken in recent months to convince the European Commission of the added value of the law adopted in Parliament by a large majority? What arguments did you use? What correspondence has there been with the European Commission? Can we look at it? What procedure will be followed? What arguments will you develop to defend Belgian anti-abuse legislation before the European Court of Justice?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic168x.u49	Mr Geerts, it is not a simple dossier. The anti-abuse clause has already started under my predecessor. Indeed, my group in the Chamber too, along with the other government parties, wants to approve the anti-abuse clause simply because it is absolutely necessary for the control of false postings, in order to deal with fraud, social dumping and the abuse of postings. I am absolutely convinced that we need more resources in our fight against social dumping, and I have already told Mrs Thyssen that we absolutely need more resources and opportunities to tackle posting fraud and abuses. Of course, we have had extensive contacts with the European Commission, but without results. In consultation with the administration and the lawyer, we have made every effort to defend our position. In other words, as Secretary of State responsible for combating social fraud, I proposed that the government continue the procedure. So, as a Belgian government, we are defending the anti-abuse clause approved here before the European Court of Justice. Some say that this is a waste of time, but we will do everything in our power to win, because I am convinced that we must also show the European Commission that we need resources to combat fraud and dumping. It is not because the European Commission takes a position that the European Court of Justice approaches the same position identically. I refer to the case law on the Limosa notification obligation, in which everyone thought that the European Court of Justice would not follow us, but the argument that foreign workers may be notified through the Limosa notification obligation has been followed. That was an unimportant decision of the European Court of Justice. We must continue to address the misuse of the A1 form. The national approach requires registration. We must, above all, take the necessary steps at European level. I approach our neighbouring countries Luxembourg and the Netherlands and I will draw up a letter of intent in connection with the fight against social dumping and posting fraud. We will try to convince France and Germany, as well as other European countries, to take the matter together. We need to collect practical examples and work together on cross-border controls between the Netherlands and Belgium. After all, many of the false postings come through the Netherlands. If I can do that with my colleague Asscher, whom I met in The Hague a few weeks ago, I think we will be able to move forward. I must ensure that I have full suitcases to show Europe that there is a need for better control. One of the major problems is the collection of social security contributions. I have said a few times that it would be very good if we went to a European collection system for social security. Today we are paying the bets, but social security contributions must be paid in the country of origin. That's out of control. We can't follow that. It wouldn't be bad if we could collect these contributions ourselves and transfer them to the country of origin. That, too, requires a European approach. I have already asked my colleague, Commissioner Thyssen, to do so. It has already said in a number of speeches that it wants to do something about this and to step up the fight against false postings in the coming years.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic168x.u50	Mr Secretary of State, I absolutely agree with you that it is an incredibly complex dossier. The number of hours I've had to block on that reminds me of my student days. We are pleased that you wish to continue to defend the previous government's position on anti-abuse legislation in the proceedings before the European Court of Justice. I have tabled a number of legislative proposals in a purely legislative way, but the complexity lies in the fact that European legislation is in force, while it is not clear whether it is interpreted and applied in the same way everywhere. I've also looked at other countries. Our country is certainly not the only country facing these problems. Legislation is also complex in Austria. If the Member States facing the same problem today were to act jointly in the European context, whether national or not, with a view to interpreting transposed regulations and directives, something could move in the dossier. The file is complex. I hope that someday our proposals on the interpretation of the transposed European directive will be adopted here.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic168x.u51	Secretary of State, this is the issue of smart cash registers. As you have already provided many answers on this subject, I would just like to clarify two aspects. We know, therefore, that as of 30 April, the situation has improved, but not in a completely satisfactory way, since only a little more than 18,000 of the 30,000 institutions concerned would be registered on the FPS Finance portal. Have you ever been able to profile these late institutions? Are there common characteristics that make these institutions not deemed it necessary to register? Is it at the 10% turnover level that this could be a problem? The second point I would like to make is that it would appear that it will be difficult for the administration to guarantee access to cash registers for those who have registered after 30 April. Therefore, they would not have these blackboxes on 1 January 2016 and therefore would be in breach. In this case, for those who have submitted their application even late, will there be some flexibility in the controls to allow them the possibility of installing this box?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic168x.u52	Madam, in the absence of physical flexibility, I have a great deal of flexibility in mind. The introduction of the cash register system is a difficult measure. As I have already said, this is not just my responsibility. Many members of the government are competent. This is an indispensable measure for horeca. As set out in the Government Agreement, we are taking strong action to address the sector's concerns. I am thinking, for example, of the introduction of flexi-jobs and low-cost overtime from 1 January 2015. More than ever, today we have a government that wants to take effective action for Horeca. In principle, the registration date was 28 February 2015. For various reasons, except for technical or administrative reasons, registration has proved difficult, if not impossible, for a number of horeca establishments. For these establishments, an administrative tolerance was applied until 30 April 2015. The majority of horeca establishments registered for these dates. However, many establishments are not yet registered. One of the causes is the impending cessation of activities. Other establishments will no longer offer meals but only drinks. Here are more profiles of establishments that are not registered. Despite the communication, some institutions still do not know, or at least use this argument. Indeed, the person who is not aware of these measures must be a little isolated from society. However, I do not think that anyone who works in the Horeca area is isolated. There are also people who have errors that must first be corrected at the level of registration at the ECB. As regards turnover, they are distributed as follows: 50 % less than 100 000 euros, 25 % between 100 000 and 200 000 euros, 17 % between 200 000 and 400 000 euros and 8 % more than 400 000 euros. There are also huge variations by province. The champion is the province of West Flanders. This is due to the fact that there is a lot of horeca on the coast. As far as activities are concerned, none of them are truly obvious. There is also a group of horeca operators who stubbornly refuse to register. As of May 4, we started outreach visits to horeca establishments that are not yet registered and which can be expected to have a cash register system. This is a decision of my colleague Secretary of State Elke Sleurs. During the visits, the Horeca contractor will receive, among other things, an information brochure and it will be reviewed jointly with the operator if it will actually have to use an SCE in the course of 2015. We would not apply the principle of good administration and it would be particularly unfair to reward those who knowingly failed to register with a new deferral. As Secretary of State, I want above all to offer opportunities to horeca institutions that are cooperative and have registered quickly. The measures are mainly aimed at these establishments. The FPS did not inform us of any information indicating delays with regard to the SCE, but given the number of systems installed (1,516 for a target of 30,000), however, delays can be expected. Currently, 62 cashier models are certified and procedures are in progress or have been initiated for some 20 others. Others, with a good share of the market, especially on the French-speaking side, have not yet introduced a certification file. Of course, there will be no sanctions for horeca farms if they lag behind for reasons that are valid and beyond their control in the installation of an intelligent cash register in their establishment. For this reason, a charter was concluded with the social and tax inspection services. Controls will focus mainly on horeca establishments that have registered a credit union late or not at all. In this charter it will also be stated that, during the checks, the proper functioning of the establishment as well as customers will have to be respected. We are currently actively working on this. The start-up horeca establishments must have an active fund within three months of opening.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic168x.u53	Thank you for your very comprehensive answer. She gave me some insight into the profile of the late establishments. I see that you are opting for awareness and information, which seems to me really wise to get the 12,000 missing institutions they are complying with. Like you, I think there is no reason to grant additional time to those who have knowingly abstained. Rather, those who have complied with the law in a timely manner should be encouraged. I also hear that you will be careful to help those who were unaware or whose case suffered from errors. We are on the right track for all establishments to use this smart cash register in 2016.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic168x.u54	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, there is currently a system of attendance registration on construction sites, which applies to construction sites costing more than EUR 800 000. An evaluation of the system by the RSZ is planned for July this year. Attendance registration on construction yards is an important tool to allow targeted checks to be carried out by social inspectors in the fight against cross-border fraud. Therefore, an extension of the system could be useful in order to better deal with such frauds. By enlargement, I mean reducing the limit of EUR 800 000. It is also important for smaller construction sites to establish a presence register. What are your views on the possible extension of attendance to all construction sites, possibly to the exclusion of private persons or all construction sites from a certain limit, so that the smaller construction sites are included? What is your view on this? To what extent do you believe that we can indeed step up the fight against fraud? Do you think it would be useful, pending the evaluation, to try to reach agreement with the social partners on this? Has the subject been discussed with the social partners in the context of the roundtables on construction? We understand that the round tables will be completed at the time of the evaluation of the RSZ. This is why it is important to involve the social partners and to ask for their views on the possible extension of the registration of construction sites.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic168x.u55	Mrs Lanjri, I have now received the most recent figures. Between 1 April 2014 and 31 March 2015, there were 8 417 292 registrations. In 2014, there were 3 799 696 registrations. The first three months of 2015 were already 4 617 596. This means that the figure continues to rise. I'll give you the numbers later, by the way. There has not yet been any verbalisation after the tolerated period, but there have been warnings. On 12 March 2015, I asked the RSZ to evaluate the current attendance obligation by 1 July 2015. I expect a report from the RSZ by 1 July. I am and will continue to support the generalisation of attendance registration to all yards. I therefore agree with you, Mrs Lanjri, in the sense that an effective policy requires registration not only in large yards but in all yards. If the people who are out there are not registered, it is impossible to do a proper check. This is the same as allowing certain cars to drive around without a license plate; then only these can be checked with a license plate. I am therefore also in favour of a generalised registration, but the requested evaluation at RSZ will have to establish whether this is desirable and feasible. That is why I am asking for an evaluation. Of course, it is also important that I have the support of the social partners. There are now round tables on construction. For the safety aspect alone, it would be a good thing to know who is present at the yard, just think of the disaster in Gellingen. We must continue to talk about this with the social partners. I will do that when I have the RSZ evaluation and then I will check whether there is any further support from the social partners in the construction sector for a generalised registration. In summary, the registrations are rising. I am in favour of a generalised registration and I would like to discuss this with the social partners at the roundtables on construction, after receiving the RSZ report.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic168x.u56	Mr Secretary of State, I had already indicated in the question that I know that the evaluation is coming. The results did not arrive until July of this year, but then the round table will be over. I think it is important, if possible, to ask for the evaluation to be brought forward so that a decision can be taken during the round tables. It is good that you will involve the social partners, and I think that is only logical. However, now that round tables are in progress, it is good to bring forward the research and to request the results earlier, precisely to present the results to the social partners at the round table. Or can you already ask the social partners what they think about it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic168x.u57	I already have, Mrs. Lanjri. That has already been discussed and I know what the various partners think about that. There is a willingness to talk about this, but there is a demand for an evaluation. If I do not have an evaluation that proves that registration above EUR 800 000 has also effectively achieved the objectives, it is difficult to talk further. This will be further discussed in the overall approach of the round table on construction. It may not be possible to complete this dossier together with the other construction measures and it should be added in an annex to the agreements that will be concluded at the round table, but at least it will be discussed. It is well known that I am absolutely in favour of generalised registration. The technical side and the feasibility for everyone must of course be examined.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic168x.u58	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, this question concerns the fight against social fraud and the expulsion of victims of social fraud if they do not have a residence permit. Large-scale social fraud has regularly surfaced in recent years. Sometimes that leads to a successful conviction of the perpetrators. I am thinking, among other things, of the Carestel judgment, in which a motorway restaurant chain and a subcontractor were sentenced to pay fines for employing Eastern European workers in appalling circumstances. The victims were supposedly self-employed, seconded from Germany. A while ago, the Secretary of State himself also indicated that the victims in such cases are not always treated in the most favourable way to be able to testify against the perpetrators of these forms of organised social fraud. That is how it happens that they are sometimes expelled, especially when it comes to non-Europeans, even before a trial against the perpetrators has taken place. In this way, they will miss out on any arrears of wages or other allowances to which they are still entitled. I would have liked to ask the following questions. Of course, people who are not entitled to stay must be expelled, but the question is whether they cannot wait until they have testified to the trial against the perpetrators of organised social fraud and until they have received all the late wages, compensations and any damages. Have you taken any action in this respect? If so, which one? Have you discussed this with the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration? What are the bottlenecks for taking action? Does it seem to you to be a valid piste to work together between the services of the FOD WASO and DVZ? If so, what timing do you have in mind to start this up? I think it is important that social fraud is tackled, but this can only be done in a proper way if the victims can testify to the lawsuit against their exploiters. This will also ensure that they receive everything they are still entitled to. This does not, of course, preclude them from having to leave the country subsequently because they do not have valid residence documents.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic168x.u59	In my 2015 action plan against social fraud and social dumping, I paid due attention to the issue of trafficking in human beings and economic exploitation. I will focus on specific controls on trafficking in human beings. For these controls, the Social Inspectorate has already set up special ECOSOC cells, specialising in the fight against trafficking in human beings and economic exploitation. The visit of the foreign observer has already shown that we have a leading role to play, including worldwide. I also want to monitor through the Social Inspectorate the implementation of the EU Action Plan on Trafficking in Human Beings 2014-2017 which will integrate ECOSOC cells into Europol's SIENA Platform. With regard to the expulsion of the victims of social fraud, I would like to draw attention to the existing legislation which provides for the possibility of granting victims of trafficking in human beings and certain forms of smuggling a three-month temporary residence permit when a complaint is made on this basis. There is even the possibility of a residence permit of indefinite duration if the complaint leads to a conviction or if the prosecutor of the King or the employment officer takes into account aggravating circumstances in the charge of trafficking in human beings or smuggling. In addition to the recovery of late wages from the employer, the employee may claim his late wages under certain conditions from the client, the contractor and subcontractor. Under the Wage Protection Act of 12 April 1965, in addition to the general rules on joint and several liability for pay debts, there is also a system of joint and several liability for late pay in the case of employment of an illegally staying third-country national. I attach great importance to cooperation between the various inspection services. That is why I have included that I would like to have the Supervisory Board of Social Laws (TSW) working together with the Social Inspectorate in the fight against organised trafficking in human beings, in addition to the fight against social fraud. The action plan will also consider how we can use data mining and data matching or extend it further between the social inspection services, the FPS Economy and DVZ.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic168x.u60	Mr Secretary of State, I know that there are laws relating to trafficking in human beings. I've worked on that in the past. When a person is given the status of a victim of trafficking in human beings, that person can at least stay here during the procedure and even obtain a residence permit. That is a very heavy procedure for a very limited group. Another problem that the sector itself has mentioned is that it is often about a wider group, for which pay is paid, although much lower and below the minimum wage, but not RSZ, and that this is not always qualified as trafficking in human beings. In these cases, we must be able to make the necessary decisions and give people the chance to get their late wages. These are not the cases that we have previously provided for in the legislation for victims of trafficking in human beings. We need to look at that much more broadly. I sat with the inspection on a study day and they also indicate that there is a problem, that there is a whole group that is not covered by the concept of human trafficking. I know this legislation very well. She's not enough. It is good for a particular group, for victims of trafficking in human beings, but another group is not included because, strictly speaking, they are not victims of trafficking in human beings. They must be protected. They too are entitled to pay their wages. It is also important for tackling social fraud to be able to keep those people until a decision has been taken. Mr Secretary of State, I would ask you to review this together with your inspection and with DVZ.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic168x.u61	Mr Secretary of State, as you announced at the time of the installation of this government, it was confirmed at the beginning of April, at least by the press, that the energy data, namely the consumption of gas, water and electricity by the citizens, will soon be sent "in a systematic and anonymous manner", I quote you, to the Carrefour Bank of Social Security by the distributors concerned. The stated objective of this measure is to detect home fraud, which is to lie to the ONEM about their family situation when they are seeking employment. People who declare themselves "isolated" by lying about their actual address of stay in order to benefit from a more advantageous status and allowance, their social and financial situation having become worrying. I am shocked by this initiative. Hence, Secretary of State, my questions. If the objective of this measure is "to turn on a flashing light for a future investigation", how will the monitoring bodies manage the influx of inquiries resulting from the fact that the most vulnerable citizens are often those who receive very small energy bills, simply because they cannot afford to pay more, especially in times of federal budgetary restraint? I don't need to draw you a picture. The implementation of this measure depends on the cooperation of energy and water distributors. These are usually public utility companies that, I suppose, you have contacted. Could you inform me of their views on this automatic transmission of private data? Any distributor must be able to play the game. Otherwise, you won't get that data. Could you also clarify to me the method that administrations will use to discover the name of a potential fraudster, while allowing an anonymised transfer of information? Finally, could you please tell me if you are considering taking into account all the recommendations made by the Privacy Commission? In advance, thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic168x.u62	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, my objective is to provide social inspection services, on the basis of data on water, electricity and gas consumption, with a complementary indicator to better detect fraud at home. This additional indicator will allow the social inspection services to better determine whether or not a thorough investigation should be carried out. In concrete terms, this means that the targeted objectives can be selected. This additional indicator will result at least from a data stream, as you mentioned in the first part of your question. Then you ask me what the point of view is on this issue for distribution companies and network operators. As they will have to communicate this data to Carrefour Bank, it goes without saying that I will have to consult with them. Before starting this dialogue, the privacy aspect of data transfer needs to be fully clarified. This work is under way. I will ask for the opinion of the Privacy Commission on this point. In response to your third question, I would first like to mention that my intention is to request all consumption data from distribution companies and public interest companies. My intention is only to ask for the consumption data which, quite clearly, depart from the average consumption, taking into account the particular place where people are officially domiciled. I'm not going to read bills or check data, I just want to know which homes have almost no electricity, gas or water consumption, far from a normal system. In addition, the intention is that these data be transmitted anonymously to Carrefour Bank. It will then check whether a file is being opened with the ONEM or INAMI. Only then will the data be customized. Subsequently, these data will be used with other indicators. Of course, being competent to protect privacy, the privacy aspect will be taken into account.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic168x.u63	Mr. Chair, Mr. Secretary of State, we will therefore pay close attention to the advice that will be given by the Privacy Commission on your bill. If I understand correctly, the contacts have not yet been made with the companies that are supposed to provide you with this data. I therefore wish you good courage! This may cause them a number of problems. But we will check in due course. In addition, you will be confronted with a lot of parasite data. As I said, many people whose income is precarious have very low electricity, gas and water bills, given their situation. This is not an indication that they are cheating, but that they have little income. In addition, you are trying to fight home fraud involving people who are trying to earn an extra 150 or 250 euros because of the difference between the status of isolated and cohabitant. In my view, it would be preferable to use the means you will devote to detecting this fraud to fill the gap between the status of Isolated and the status of cohabitant. This would be more effective socially and, in any case, much more privacy-friendly.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic168x.u64	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, we heard that you also want to step up the fight against social fraud by tackling residence fraud against people with unemployment benefits. It sometimes happens that people say that they are single in order to receive higher unemployment benefits. That is why you want to give the RVA once again the opportunity to check the place of residence of the unemployed unannounced. For the record: CD&V is against social fraud, but also against tax fraud. Both forms of fraud need to be tackled. That can't be clearer. If people are wrongly using a system to obtain a higher benefit than they are entitled to, they are actually indirectly restricting the opportunities of people who do need the support. We therefore believe that we really need to tackle this. We therefore urge the government to tackle all forms of fraud, including taxation. However, you are not responsible for this, but your colleague, Secretary of State, Mr Sleurs. I shall therefore confine myself to your powers. You launched the proposal a few weeks ago. In a response from the director of the Central Audit Service of the RVA, we read that he expects little change in practice. Few home visits are already taking place, and that would not change in the future. He even said that 32 000 unemployed were checked last year, 10 000 of whom were not well, sometimes due to an unconscious administrative error. A very small minority of the unemployed might have had something to do with residence fraud. They were therefore effectively given a visit to home. The director also says that the RVA has stopped counting it, because it is so few cases. Can you confirm these numbers? Is there any trend to be observed? What is evolution? The RVA also indicates that, despite the fact that you say that the RVA will no longer have to notify you, he will still send a warning when he plans a house visit. Is it true that the RVA can choose whether to notify or not, in other words that there is no obligation to announce a visit anymore? If there is no change in working methods in the field, what is the point of this measure? Does he make any sense? I would also like to draw your attention to the following. Control has been transferred to the Region during the last state reform. The control is carried out by the RVA, but it is a responsibility of the regions. In my view, there is a possibility that the regions will fill in this in a different way, in the sense that it will happen in Flanders, for example, with an announcement, as Mr Langeraert said, and that it might happen differently in Brussels and Wallonia, for example without an announcement. I believe that this is possible because it has become a competence of the regions. The incentive to check is also gone. After all, even if there is stricter control or more effort on control, the money recovered does not return to the regions. They therefore have no interest in having stricter controls. My feeling is that one more step must be taken, in the sense that a financial incentive must be given to those who are involved in the fight against fraud.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic168x.u65	Mrs. Lanjri, you're right. I fully support you when you say that tax fraud must also be dealt with. However, I am somewhat opposed to the perception which is being created today that only large companies commit tax fraud and that only small companies would commit social fraud. That perception is going around today. I myself have been active in the field for many years as a counterman in a bank. One would be alarmed by the extent of tax fraud committed by the so-called small man, as well as by the number of companies committing very serious social fraud. In that context, I am thinking of fake contracts and fake C4 debt securities. In this respect, there was a court case in Brussels not long ago involving two thousand people and EUR 20 million. It seems to me that the perception is fed that tax fraud is always something of large companies. I'm not saying you say that. I just wanted to make that clear. I have to admit, I was surprised. The Social Inspectorate itself asked for the measure to be lifted. It is very strange that the RVA then suggests that nothing should change. I sometimes notice some contradiction in the figures. It is no longer being applied, also because the College of Attorney General said in 2012 that this measure is ineffective and leads nowhere. If a person has to be notified ten days in advance that a check on residence fraud may be carried out, the person concerned will have every opportunity to rectify it or to ensure that traces are erased. So that's a little weird. Maybe that's why there were so few controls, because they weren't efficient. If one has to announce house visits ten days in advance, one can assume that they do not make much sense. So one can stop and even stop counting. I am convinced and I suspect that it was also meant by the RVA, that good data mining and data matching and good data management allow much more efficient measures to be taken, without having to make house visits everywhere. In this way it can be limited to a number of very exceptional cases. It is better to bet on data mining and data matching. I have one objective, namely to deal with fraud of a social or fiscal nature, but with regard to my competence in relation to social fraud at source, in other words, in advance. This is not only about the family composition, but also about people who benefit from benefits and stay abroad, while they have a fake address here. I have already cited the example of the Syrian warriors, but there are still cases of people who have worked here, who are entitled to benefits and who, so to speak, continue to have an address here, but who are no longer in the country and who receive the benefit every month. That's not unimportant. It is also about an important amount. In 2014, my predecessor, Mr Crombez, already demonstrated that the amount could rise very quickly. Those are not my grades, because I became Secretary of State on 11 October 2014, so at the end of the year. If the RVA is working well and can provide better figures in the fight against residence fraud, then it is also the previous government that has done so. What is also important is that Mr Georges Carlens, the administrator-general of the RVA, has confirmed to me that, as soon as it is possible, the RVA will use the method to carry out any unexpected home checks, to register, to be admitted to enter and, if that is not possible, to establish effectively.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic168x.u66	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic168x.u67	Once it is again possible to carry out unexpected checks, this possibility will also be effectively exploited by the RVA. I'm not assuming what's in the papers. I'm assuming what the administrator-general of the RVA reports to me, as Secretary of State. The RVA has informed me that it will indeed implement that measure if it is included in the programme law, as planned. They asked for it themselves, Mrs Lanjri. I was therefore surprised by the statements that nothing could be done about it. If the Social Inspectorate and the RVA ask for it themselves, and Mr Carlens, the administrator-general of the RVA, confirms to me that this measure will also be applied, that means for me that this measure has the necessary support. That is also what I expect from the RVA administration. So unexpected home controls will indeed be carried out. Is that gonna happen everywhere? I believe that is where the misunderstanding with Mr Langeraert comes from. Mr Langeraert has said that compared to the past, fewer home controls should be carried out, because there is now much better data management. With data mining and data matching one can already get a lot out of it. However, on-the-spot checks are necessary and are the final stage. I therefore welcome the fact that the RVA controls are brought to the same level as RIZIV controls and OCMW controls. If checks are announced ten days in advance, they are less efficient than if they are not announced in advance, that seems to me to be the logic itself. If I announce that in ten days' time I will have an alcohol check on the road at that place and at that hour, the drivers who have to pass there will probably ensure that they have not been drinking. If I do that unexpectedly, I have a better chance of stopping drivers who have been drinking there. It's that simple.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic168x.u68	We shall see whether this will indeed be applied, as the administrator-general said. I particularly hope that there will be no divergence between the different regions. I think there might be a catch here. It would be a pity to apply this differently in Wallonia than in Flanders.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic168x.u69	I don't understand. The RVA falls within the competence of the Minister for Labour. The management and coordination of all social inspection services at federal level is my responsibility. I have taken this measure in consultation with the Minister for Labour. Besides, it's not my measure. This measure was taken by the entire government, i.e. in consultation with the other ministers. Checks on unemployment benefits, checks on RIZIV benefits and checks on RSZ benefits are still the responsibility of the federal government.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic168x.u70	Through the sixth state reform, the control was transferred together with the RVA, in the context of the homogeneous packages of powers? I'll check this out, but I believe it is.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic168x.u71	I believe that this still falls within my competence and that of Minister Peeters.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic168x.u72	Okay.
