ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic124x.u1	I hope you yourself do not have much experience on the subject, Mr Demon?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic124x.u2	Unfortunately I do have some experience with that, after the match of Club Bruges last Thursday. But this question is not about that. Over the past few weeks, hooliganism has risen again. I am thinking of the battle on the Ghent Friday Market, Feyenoordsupporters who are building the historic centre of Rome and Chelseahooligans in the Paris metro. Last year, 993 supporters ran a stadium ban, which is 203 more than in 2013. Hooliganism is strongly addressed in and around the stadiums. That is a good thing, but unfortunately there is also a shift in the problem. Many supporters do not enter the stadium anymore and then make more amok in the city centre or abroad. Football violence is now usually left to the local police who have the task of maintaining public order. However, the problem goes beyond that. A study commissioned by the Football Cell and the Pro League also shows that drug use is widespread among hard supporters. That is what I experienced myself last Thursday in connection with the Europa League competition of Club Bruges. I have two questions about this. Can the federal police step in to tackle hooliganism? Can she do anything more? How do you intend to deal with drug use in certain supporters' groups, which are known anyway?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic124x.u3	Mr President, Mr Demon, I would like to answer your first question. Within the federal police, the Directorate for Operations of the General Executive Board of the Administrative Police coordinates the flow of information between the local and federal police forces involved in the police management of football events. This management also ensures the exchange of information with foreign police services in connection with international football matches within the federal police, with a view to the correct assessment of potential risks associated with such events. If the resources of local police forces prove to be insufficient for the police management of certain events, they may call upon the intervention corps or specialised resources of the federal police, such as teams responsible for the collection of evidence and detention in the event of incidents, as well as further administrative handling with regard to the reunification of supporters involved in these incidents. The local police can appeal to the federal police. This means that the initiative is based on the local level. So we make information available to the federal authorities, we collect information and pass it on to the local police. The local police then does the evaluation themselves and decides whether they can handle it with local strength or call for federal help. The initiative lies with the local police. I experienced that myself as mayor when Beerschot visited Brasschaat. That was in first provincial and I've never seen police force like that in and around our stadium. That's like anecdote. Your second question. At the preventive level, the Pro League and the Football Cell organised a study day on drug use in football supporters and efficient approaches at the end of 2014. That means that we are indeed aware. There were speakers and participants from supporters' organisations, clubs, the magistrate, the academic world and the police. After the day of study, guidelines were distributed to the participants, with which one can work in the club. These guidelines consist of tips and best practices from other clubs and cities and can help the local triangle city/municipalities, police and public prosecutors to start projects on this issue. Again, the federal level has taken initiatives to provide information, to be a turntable for passing on what is being applied elsewhere, but it is the local level that has to do something with it. As far as the reactive approach to the phenomenon of retailing drugs is concerned, this is a competence of local police forces. The approach to this is often not always provided for in local security plans. It will also depend on the extent of the drug problem in such a zone. In addition to targeted checks carried out in the framework of law enforcement, targeted investigations can be carried out by local detectives into organised tricks within supporters' groups. These investigations can, if necessary, be supported by the specialised services of the federal police. The same principle applies there too. We'll pass things along. If the local CID says she can handle it, she can. However, there are also federal specialised services that can assist the local police at its request.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic124x.u4	Minister, I have a question to which you do not have to answer in concrete terms immediately. To boost tension and television rights, more and more games of the playoffs and the Europa League are played at the same time. As a result, there are multiple risk matches at the same time. Look at the six teams that will now play-off 1. Is there enough manpower for the local police? That must be kept up, because it is a question that arises. With Cercle, we'll probably only have a small problem in our police area. However, if there are multiple risk matches at the same time for the voltage, is there sufficient manpower to meet demand? That needs to be kept in mind.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic124x.u5	I know a big city in Flanders where they don't have that problem of first-class football, and certainly not of play-off 1. Perhaps some powers can be sought there. You're right. That is continuously monitored by the Football Cell of Home Affairs. At the moment I have not been informed that there are capacity problems in this area. That must, of course, be evaluated over and over again.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic124x.u6	Mr President, Minister, in joint questions, my colleague Willy Demeyer and I were able to convey to you our fears about the shortcomings in terms of numbers on the ground, the missions of police officers paralyzed by the state of alert and the overload of police officers. The latter are in fact very alone in order, both to fulfil their usual tasks, to compensate for the absence of their fellow police officers, to face the threat and to manage the obligation to accompany unarmed agents in the event of an exit on the ground. Some strategic points are now under high protection, while other tasks essential to the regulation of our security system are abandoned and postponed to later. Following your answer, I would like further clarification on a point that remains unclear for the police areas. You say, I quote: '(... ) less urgent tasks are then left aside in favour of priority tasks'. Could you therefore specify which tasks are considered urgent or priority? Is the management of the traffic of a main artery in the capital, which mixes thousands of motorists, considered secondary? The shortage of police personnel, already problematic before level 3 alert status, has now been reduced to level 2+, and has been exacerbated by the reorganisation of staff in the areas following threats. What solutions can be found? Have any resources been made available?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic124x.u7	Mr President, Mrs Ben Hamou, it is the responsibility of the local police chiefs to determine what priority or urgent tasks are, taking into account local security policy and their risk analysis. They are best placed to assess which tasks are priority and which are less priority. In fact, the chiefs of corps have such knowledge of their police area that they know perfectly where and when, for example, traffic regulations would be necessary according to the intensity of the traffic. But indeed, choices have to be made and I can easily imagine that in some police areas, Wednesday noon is privileged to do checks near schools rather than at another crossroads and that this could cause queues. In response to your second question, I can tell you that it is indisputable that a heightened threat situation leads police areas to have to be creative in their management of personnel and equipment, but it is inaccurate to say that those on leave had to be massively recalled. Some small police areas may encounter difficulties in carrying out their usual tasks. This problem is independent of raising the level of the threat but rather falls within the scope of the organization of the police force. Indeed, we have found that some small police areas have adapted the opening hours of their neighbourhood police station, which has enabled them to find the capacity to perform other tasks. The police continue to perform their normal basic duties without exception. With regard to the police force, discussions have been taking place over the past few months on key tasks and how to optimize available resources and personnel. In addition, the latest update will encourage the Chiefs of Staff to reassess their risk analysis, where appropriate with the support of the OCAM, in order to modify measures where possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic124x.u8	Thank you for your answer, Minister. I do not understand very well that you are talking about leave, when I have not addressed this issue in any way in my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic124x.u9	This is a question that has already been asked on several occasions both in plenary and in committee. Your question was about what measures local areas are taking to make things easier. The issue of days off was therefore given as an example.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic124x.u10	I said that there is already a shortage of police personnel in the police areas. Their organization has been shaken by the rise in the level of the threat. My question was whether you were going to put resources in place to recruit more staff and provide us with an update.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic124x.u11	More staff are being made available. With the general rise in the level of threat, approximately 250 military personnel were made available. Today, with a level 2+ – and 3 in some places – it is 210 soldiers who come to help local areas in their protection tasks and other missions if necessary. So far, I have only heard of a few measures taken by local areas, such as traffic around a school, etc. These are measures that I personally would not take.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic124x.u12	So you have no impact on such decisions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic124x.u13	No.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic124x.u14	You didn't send instructions to the police.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic124x.u15	What we have done is to send out a list of the tasks that the areas must meet according to the circumstances. And another list that needs to be respected in case priorities need to be established.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic124x.u16	Can we have a copy of this list?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic124x.u17	No. The incident is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic124x.u18	Mr President, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, parking is a problem that Belgians face, whether they go shopping or go to work. This difficulty is even more acute for our disabled fellow citizens. To facilitate their travel, reserved parking spaces have been created in the car parks of shopping centres, those serving public services or more generally in the public area. Parking cards have been issued to persons with disabilities so that they can justify the use of these reserved spaces. These people encounter difficulties such as non-compliance with these dedicated places by other users and the occupation of these spaces by people who fraudulently use cards on the expired deadline or by parents using the card of a deceased disabled person. The SPF Social Security reports that 280,000 fraudulent cards are in circulation following the non-renewal of the card or the non-restitution of the card by the family upon the death of the legitimate holder. To deal with this incivility, the police indicated that they were working on a system to monitor the validity of parking cards reserved for disabled persons. Deputy Prime Minister, the figure of 280,000 communicated by the Social Security FPS is significant in relation to the total number of cards issued, which I believe is 330,000. What are the difficulties encountered by your services in combating this consequent fraud, if the figures quoted are confirmed? The SPF Social Security, which does not issue the cards in a physical manner, transmits the files it investigates to the publishing company. He therefore has in his possession an exhaustive list of cards issued by order of his services. The SPF indicates on its site that the police can, from the unique serial number, verify the validity of the controlled card. Therefore, what difficulties do your services encounter in defeating fraudsters? Would a first answer not be to request an update of the situation of cardholders, in order to retain those still valid, to render obsolete those who are no longer valid and to draw up an updated file? What are the technical, legal and privacy challenges facing the SPF Police? Do police officers have access to the listing of valid or outdated card numbers? When will a secure system allow disabled users access without prejudice to the places planned and reserved for their parking? Do you intend to ask the police to strengthen the controls at these sites? Are you going to ask them to punish offenders more rigorously?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic124x.u19	A little over a year ago, contacts were initiated by the Office of the Secretary of State for Social Affairs, Families, Persons with Disabilities and Science Policy with the Interior Office and the police in order to consider a structural solution to allow access to the Handiflux data bank, which lists parking cards for persons with disabilities. An application must be submitted to the relevant sectoral committee established within the Commission for the Protection of Privacy, which ensures compliance with the relevant rules. The police regularly carry out checks on parking cards for persons with disabilities, but access to the data is not automated and requires contact with the services of the SPF Social Security. Yet we are in the 21st century! Ideally, controls should be available online at any time and throughout the country. In addition to the fundamental issue of relevance and need for social data for the police, consideration should also be given to access to data and compatibility of computer systems. This is the key issue at the moment. While the data of the Banque Carrefour de la Sécurité Sociale are accessible without further development of information and communication technologies (ICT), the same is not true for Handiflux, which is a specific data bank whose access requires computer developments. Currently, the police are in charge of a project to modernise ICT for the benefit of the integrated police. This e-police project is expected to allow for faster interfacing with other databases in the future. For the little story, I can tell you that the name of this project was until recently Isis. In the circumstances, we changed our name. Nevertheless, the police remain aware of the issue of parking cards. I want proof that some police areas are carrying out targeted actions on this subject. This is the case, for example, in the police areas of the province of East Flanders. However, I do not intend to ask the police to strengthen the controls in this area. The integrated police and I remain convinced of the added value of having direct access to the Handiflux database, of the need to simplify procedures and share data and information in order to combat fraud more effectively, of whatever nature. We could impose but I think it's smarter to first make things easier and automate the system otherwise we'll increase the workload. To sum up, adapt the system before imposing. As far as penalties are concerned, in cases of abusive behaviour, they are strictly provided for in the Road Traffic Code (Article 27.4 and 27bis of the Royal Decree of 1 December 1975). Finally, as regards the validation of the figures presented or the updating of the parking card file for disabled persons, this is not my responsibility. I would refer you to my colleague Mrs Sleurs, who will be able to answer these specific questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic124x.u20	Minister, I am fully satisfied with your answer. I tabled the same question in parallel with the Secretary of State. I should have put it down today, but given the agenda of the Social Affairs Committee that night, it has been postponed. That being said, I share your view that it is essential to facilitate access to the data bank. It's the only way. We are indeed in 2015 and not in 1825.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic124x.u21	With a view to better anti-radicalization prevention in police areas, during a previous exchange in committee, you have indicated your support for the CoPPRa project. However, it is up to me that, in the field, training is being held back because of the lack of resources. The CoPPRa project relies on a pocket manual to help the front-line police officer pay attention to early signs of radicalization in order to identify the problem more quickly. In other words, this manual is an indispensable tool for trainers and police officers. However, I am advised that no manual would be available at this time because of stock shortage. However, it was planned to provide a copy to each trained official on the same day. Training is difficult to dissociate from this manual. What exactly is the situation with regard to these materials, which are essential for the smooth running of the training? When will they be available for police officers? Can you tell me what the budget line involved in the printing of this manual is? What's the status of its consumption? How many textbooks - and thus training - are still available for funding in the coming year?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic124x.u22	Mr President, Mrs Ben Hamou, at present the CoPPRa training has been given to 10,000 members of the federal and local police in Belgium. The large network of 50 CoPPRa trainers enables all the demands of the police schools in the territory to be met. In this regard, there is no problem. Important resources have been made available to organize this training, as well as the provision of updated pocket guides. To date, all police schools in Belgium – federal, provincial and regional – have organized the CoPPRa training without any difficulties to note. The training is accompanied by a pocket guide given to the participants and serves as a reminder to front-line police officers to be attentive to any changes, as well as signs of possible radicalization. As every year, this guide is updated with new groups demonstrating a clear link with our country. The new version was sent immediately to the printing house and the police schools were informed in due course. It is up to schools to make the orders in order to ensure that there is sufficient stock. If not, participants will be issued a pocket guide quickly after completing the training. A lack of a pocket guide therefore does not prevent the organisation of the CoPPRa training. The pocket guide costs 0.5 euro apiece and is financed by local areas and the federal police for their respective students. So they buy pocket guides for their participants. It is the intention of the federal police, CoPPRa Product Manager, to make the pocket guide available online, as an appendix to the existing intervention guide. In this case, funding will never be a problem and the guide can be printed from the website. The demand for training continues to increase and, recently, a new CoPPRa training in practice has been developed to allow police officers already trained in CoPPRa to expand their knowledge and skills through situations.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic124x.u23	Mr. President, Minister, according to Circular GPI 48 on Violence Management Training and Training for Police Service Personnel, the training of operational officers and officers should consist of four sessions, each of which would account for four course periods. In addition to this, continuing training. However, it is up to us that there is a gap between, on the one hand, the provision of infrastructure to enable police officers to receive adequate training and training in the use of firearms and, on the other hand, the demand from the police, which is based on the legal obligations laid down by the competent authorities. Considering the great danger and the potentially serious consequences for victims when a police officer is required to use his or her firearm, given the terrorist threat to which they are subjected during this period and given the level 2+ alert, it seems essential to provide adequate training to police officers. Minister, can you provide us with figures on the number of shooting stands available to law enforcement personnel in their training? Is the shortage confirmed? If so, how do you intend to remedy it? In the face of the threat and while private guarding officers are required to undergo continuous shooting training every six months, in accordance with the Royal Decree of 21 December 2006, should not the violence-control training of our police officers be given more attention or more frequent? What about the budget? Is it planned to invest in the creation, purchase or renovation of shooting stands, so that our police officers are trained as best they can?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic124x.u24	Mr President, I will jointly answer questions from Mr Ducrame and Mrs Ben Hamou. My answer will therefore go beyond the questions asked here by Mrs Ben Hamou. Those who read the report will have more information. First of all, I can tell you that the Federal Police have three shooting stands in the Brussels Region, five shooting stands in Wallonia and four in Flanders. In addition to these fire pits, the federal police use fire pits in provincial Defence schools, police areas and the private sector. The police have found that there is a lack of shooting range capacity throughout the country. In view of this, initiatives have already been taken to increase capacity, particularly in Brussels. Cooperation between the Régie des Bâtiments and the Federal Police has led to projects aimed at providing a total of six shooting stands for the Federal Police in Brussels, three more than at present. These should be available by the end of this year. As part of the optimisation of the federal police, each district is the subject of a service implementation study. These implementation plans must result in a masterplan for the district in which we plan to meet the needs expressed, in particular in terms of the provision of shooting stands. In addition to the masterplan, it is planned to carry out a study within the Federal Police to quantify the deficit. Just as the judicial districts have been reformed, we will adapt the police areas. The organic plan will make it possible to send far more federal agents there. As the boroughs will be grouped together, we will be able to gain in capacity. This will allow us to examine the needs in terms of shooting stands and other training or material. I would like to assure you that priority in the use of shooting stands is given to strict compliance with the provisions of Circular GPI 48. In the current context of the threat, this principle also applies. As far as the Federal Police is concerned, priority in the use of shooting stands is given to the realization of the quotas imposed by the same circular. In the case of police areas, monitoring of compliance with quotas is carried out within each of them. It is difficult for me to answer your second question about police areas, as it is the competent local colleges that define their infrastructure projects. However, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, within the framework of close cooperation within the integrated police, any capacity available within the federal police force naturally implies or will involve making available for the benefit of the police areas that would request it. As far as investments are concerned, as I mentioned earlier, the strategic borough plans will provide for the development, whether it is a new construction or a renovation of the capacity required for shooting stands in order to meet the needs formulated. However, these investments will take several years. I have to add one more element. While visiting police schools, I noticed that, for shooting training, police officers were required to follow a certain number of hours at the shooting stands, but without any obligation of result. To say so brutally, people can therefore go and come to this place, shoot in the roof for a few hours; then they are trained! There is something to do about it. In Flanders, we speak of "eindtermen", of the final objectives, the abilities that a student must acquire so that nine times out of ten, he or she reaches the center of the target
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic124x.u25	In the private sector, at Group 4 Securitas, for example, the agent must fire at least ten times a year. In the police, it's only five times. I think it's too little for police officers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic124x.u26	It depends. If this policeman comes and shoots ten times in the center, it's better than if he shoots for three hours and never reaches him. I'm not interested in the number of hours spent in the shooting range. These are the results, the abilities, the skills I look at. We need to rethink the system.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic124x.u27	Minister, thank you for your answers. I'm glad to hear that we're planning to create a new shooting centre.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic124x.u28	Mr Minister, all disasters prior to 1 July 2014 are still being dealt with federally, while the disasters after 1 July 2014 are the responsibility of the Regions. At the end of January, a question was asked in plenary, to which your colleague Mr Van Overtveldt replied in your name, that there are still 11 emergency files waiting for federal recognition in respect of the period before 1 July 2014. Five of these disasters hit the inhabitants of my province, West Flanders. Nine files would have been complete or almost ready then and two files were still waiting for the final opinion of the Treasury Inspectorate. First of all, I'd like to get an update. Are the eleven dossiers on which you have to decide submitted to the Council of Ministers? Is its recognition a fact? Will its publication in the Belgian Official Journal be possible soon? Secondly, after recognition, the files still have to be checked by experts. You would have said that you would use the necessary staff to handle this administrative matter. An estimate refers to no less than 25 000 individual dossiers. How do you see this feasible? Is it true that the administrative services under the Federal Disaster Fund have already been dissolved? Then who's gonna do the job? Thirdly, five of the eleven dossiers relate to West Flanders. This is the rain of October 10, 2013, the jerky winds of ten days after, again jerky winds on January 25, 2014, hail in June 2014 and heavy rains in June 2014. Can you tell which Western Flemish municipalities are eligible for each of these five dossiers? Is it true that the rain of 9 June 2014 and the hail damage of the same day are considered two separate disasters? Fourthly, specifically as regards hail damage, field crops are excluded from compensation. Given the damage caused by a risk normally covered by insurance contracts, will many farmers not be excluded from the scheme? Fifthly, will compensation be paid this year? Sixthly, in view of the recognition for more than one year after the facts, the granting of the amounts may be detrimental to farmers' tax returns. Do you see a solution for this?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic124x.u29	Mr President, I can reassure my colleague: disasters are not just happening in West Flanders. Unfortunately, other provinces are also affected. For example, during that same period, around 9 June, Pentecost Monday, there was huge hail damage in my own city and even to my own house, but that doesn't matter now. Sint-Niklaas was affected but many other municipalities in Flanders were also very badly affected. Everyone remembers the footage of two days before, in which the soccer match between the Red Devils and Tunisia had to be shut down due to a heavy hailstorm. Many of them are still waiting for their final settlement. I also think that, as my colleague said, these are the last cases to be dealt with by the federal government. As of 1 July, the Land of Flanders will be responsible for this. I am pleased to note that Flanders is making its homework tidy, because it has already dealt with files from 33 municipalities. My specific questions are in line with those of my colleague. In your reply to my written question of August, you spoke of total hail damage of 25.2 million and rainfall of 7.4 million. That does not say anything about the final intervention or the amount insured, but that was the overview you gave at that time of the damage suffered. I would also like an overview that does not need to be given orally but can also be attached in writing to all the municipalities affected and to the pending files. What is the timing of the recognition of hailstorm and rainstorm as natural disasters? So what is the procedure to be followed? What is the estimated time frame between the application for reimbursement by citizens and the possible payment? According to the reimbursement procedure, a municipality can help the residents to draw up their files. As soon as the recognition is available, or its publication in the Belgian Official Journal, the clock begins to run and some municipalities may be overwhelmed with questions from citizens and farmers. Then, of course, we must have good procedures that are clear to everyone, both to the municipal authorities and to the applicants, in particular to the citizens and farmers. Minister, I look forward to your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic124x.u30	Thank you for these very understandable questions. Although this is not a dossier which we should be very proud of, I think we are well advanced in resolving this matter. The 11 royal recognition decisions have been submitted to the Treasury Inspectorate for agreement, and this has been obtained. This is an evolution against previous answers. I have now received the approval of the Finance Inspectorate on the 11 disasters still to be dealt with by the federal level. Most of the disaster expenses are borne by the National Disaster Damage Cash Fund, which is part of the FPS Finance. We are talking about compensation for the victims, compensation for the shipment of experts, the wager of contract staff recruited from the governors, etc. I have proposed to my colleague in the finance department to approve the recruitment of 20 contractual staff from the governor's services. They have to deal with all the files over a period of two years. It is a total budget that we are estimated at EUR 50 million today. The following procedure remains to be followed. The matter is on the agenda of the Council of Ministers on 27 March, so next week. Following the signature of the royal decrees, on which I will work with great urgency after the Council of Ministers, they will be published in the Belgian Official Journal. After publication in the Belgian Official Journal, those affected will have a period of three months to send their file to the governor or, if necessary, to supplement it. After this three-month period, we will know the exact number of dossiers to be dealt with. The estimates range from 20 000 to 25 000 files, according to the governor's information. However, many of the victims have already submitted a dossier. They can therefore be dealt with without waiting for the end of the three-month period. In short, after the publication in the Belgian Official Journal, we will start with the files we already have. The other victims will have three months to submit or complete their files. We shall begin immediately on the files already received by the governors. As far as federal staff is concerned, the method was optimised to speed up the handling of the files. As regards the more technical aspect of the accreditations, it is true that, on the one hand, the heavy rainfall and, on the other hand, the hail showers of 7, 8 and 9 June 2014 are part of two different recognition decisions. The Law of 12 July 1976 provides for the recognition of one harmful event per royal decree. So we have prepared two royal decrees, one for the hail and one for the rain. The same law excludes in its Article 4 the compensation of hail damage to cultivation because it is a risk which can be insured. The 1976 Law has always been strictly applied since its entry into force. This will also be the case in this case, regardless of the impact on farmers. The compensation shall not be indicated on the declaration form, except in special cases for farmers. This concerns the competence of the Minister of Finance who determines the modalities. Then I have the list of the affected municipalities by disaster. The province of East Flanders has already delivered the cases. I can only read to you, Mrs Lahaye-Battheu, from the province of West Flanders. I can also report them to you or have them included in the report. It is indeed the abundant rain of October 10, 2013, winds and winds of October 20, 2013, winds and winds of January 25, 2014 and then the hail and rainfall in June 2014.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic124x.u31	Thank you, Minister, for your detailed reply. What I do not understand very well is the fact that, on the one hand, those administrative services were dissolved but, on the other hand, approximately 20 to 25 000 files have to be handled for which new people have to be recruited without experience.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic124x.u32	We have three more people in the department who have not been transferred to the Regions because they are age advanced. Those three people will guide and train the twenty officials we will recruit temporarily in the field.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic124x.u33	Minister, I think that the end of these dossiers is finally in sight. I think this is very positive. You are not responsible for the execution or the state of affairs you have found here and the fact that you have little support for this is not your personal responsibility. I think you're taking this as well as you can. The fact that municipalities, citizens and farmers have to wait a little longer should be added. The fact that we are on the right track is a joyous fact. I also hope that we will look into the extent to which local authorities who are considered responsible for the support of farmers and citizens can have the necessary instruments to support this process properly.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic124x.u34	Mr President, Minister, more and more local prevention plans (LPPs) are being created in our country, regardless of the regions or characteristics of the different municipalities. These initiatives may be a response to a greater sense of sense and a greater need for security. While it is gratifying that citizens take control of things and take an interest in the life of their neighbourhoods, caution is needed and the PLPs must be well supervised. Minister, my questions on this subject are as follows. Can you estimate the number of PLPs in our territory? What is the relationship with local authorities, especially the local police? Have we already identified incidents or abuses within PLPs? I am thinking in particular of amalgams or denunciations that could prove to be abusive or zealous. How effective are PLPs? Is crime decreasing where it exists?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic124x.u35	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Jadin, there are currently 687 community-based prevention partnerships recognized by our services. I'm going to talk about PLP to shorten my answer. Given the fluctuating number of PLPs and their citizens, it is not possible to estimate the number of citizens engaged in PLPs. The circular of 10 December 2010 on PLPs organizes relations between PLPs and local authorities. Citizens' security initiatives and the resulting exchange of information are clearly supervised by the local police. In addition, the official recognition of the PLP requires the signature of a charter between the mayor, the chief of corps, the mandated police officer and the PLP coordinator. This charter specifies the relationship between local authorities and PLP members. No incidents of abuse or abuse have been reported to my services. None! Each member of a PLP shall be bound by the rules of procedure established in connection with the installation of the PLP. Non-compliance leads to the exclusion of the member. However, these cases of exclusion are exceptional and are managed by the local level. The issue of the effectiveness of PLPs is a recurring one. Although it is impossible to establish a causal link between the reduction of certain forms of crime and specific preventive measures, in particular those taken under a PLP, it is clear from the information provided to my services that the presence of a PLP has a positive effect on the sense of security and fosters the social cohesion of citizens. A link can be made between the existence of a PLP and crime. There are no figures available, but there is a certain trend on the ground. Where there are PLPs, some forms of crime are decreasing. But the finding is not a scientific study.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic124x.u36	Minister, thank you very much for these specific answers. If I ask you these questions (I still have one in preparation), it's because I'm wondering how to find ideas and formulas that allow our police officers to focus on their main tasks and I think it's necessary to help you in these tasks. Initiatives such as the PLPs – which have also been reported in my region since our zone chief mentioned the effectiveness of these initiatives that exist in Raeren and Eupen, for example – prove that if you are interested in what is happening in a neighbourhood, it can help. In a border region like mine where crime, both small and large, is sometimes greater because of the proximity of borders, it is very important to keep this possibility and encourage it. I see she's well framed. From what I've heard, I think that's enough for now. If problems were to arise, it goes without saying that we would try to correct the device.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic124x.u37	Debates of the European Parliament 2747 by Mrs Gabriels has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic124x.u38	Mr Minister, I have already asked you a question about the allocation of house numbers. The problem in practice may not be sufficiently clear or I have not explained it clearly enough. It is about the fact that one can split up a home into a part for the elderly or cared for, if any, and for the resident who takes on part of the care. According to the Federal Interior Directive, a home is considered to be a care home as the smallest part, a third, is attributed to the caregiver. However, in practice I see caring owners of a rather spacious home taking the bulk because they are no longer mobile, while a live-in niece lives in the smaller part. This is a problem in practice, because the allocation of two different house numbers has an impact on taxation and social security. In this way people are discouraged from taking care of themselves. Mr Minister, why is it necessary for the caretaker to live in the smaller, subordinate housing unit? What happens if the caretaker remains registered in the main home and not in the subordinate housing unit? Are you prepared to change the teaching or to clarify it? I'm not just asking. I follow the problem of living in my congregation. We have also had an inter-regional discussion on the interpretation. I would like to be able to offer a bit of certainty, both to our residents and to your services.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic124x.u39	Mr Becq, the legislation on care residences falls within the competence of the Flemish Community. The care home was introduced by decree in the Flemish codex Spatial Planning of 15 May 2009. Article 4 (1), point (1), 18th paragraph, of the Flemish codex states that care homes are the creation of a smaller residential space within an existing house, so that up to two older or needy persons can live in. Still according to the Flemish codex, a home is a care home if all the following conditions are met. In the existing house one smaller unit is created. They also speak of a subordinate housing unit. The subordinate housing unit forms one physical whole with the main home. The subordinate housing unit, excluding the spaces shared with the main dwelling, shall account for a maximum of one third of the building volume of the entire dwelling. The main house and the subordinate house are owned by the same owners. The conversion of the subordinate housing unit shall be used for the accommodation of either two older persons aged 65 or over or two dependent persons. Persons in need of help are defined as persons with disabilities or persons eligible for a benefit from the Flemish health insurance or persons who need help to live independently. Only if these five conditions are met will there be care homes and the residents of the subordinate housing unit be registered as a separate family, without having to provide an additional house number. The control of the condition therefore presupposes proper cooperation between, on the one hand, the Department of Population and, on the other hand, the Department of Spatial Planning of the municipality. If the carer is registered in the main home, one of the five conditions is not met and the home is therefore not eligible as a care home. Therefore, if you wish to amend the regulations relating to care homes, you should address the competent colleague of the Flemish Government, Mr Homans.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic124x.u40	Minister, the Z number in the context of care homes is awarded at federal level. But I will ask my Flemish colleagues. I suspect that perhaps you will also ask your counterpart to show some flexibility in this respect, given the reality. One does not always place a container as a care home. Sometimes the larger part of a house is set up as a care home.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic124x.u41	Mr President, Minister, you are faithful to the meeting so that we can see a little clearer on this issue of the cracks that continue to exist. You have to admit it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic124x.u42	I hope that this will be a dialogue, not a monologue.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic124x.u43	Be reassured on this point. As the questions are known, I will focus on listening to your answers. On the other hand, today, the President will remain in his place. There'll be no problem. Everything's gonna be okay.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic124x.u44	I hope, in any case, that they have not increased.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic124x.u45	They have not increased, but you will understand my willingness to see clearly in this file. That is why, on the basis of each of the minister's answers, I find different aspects that I will quickly go over because what matters is the minister's answers. At the last committee meeting, you promised to pass on to me the figures that were hidden behind the principles. As I did not receive them, I filed a new question for you to send me the encrypted data. Minister, my first question is about the tenacity test. You will remember that after they were closed, Electrabel decided to reopen these plants in 2012. Subsequently, in March 2014, the Commission decided, as a matter of urgency, to close them down following tests carried out. We know why. We know the principle. In fact, the tests showed results far greater than the theory and the margin of safety. But never was it possible to obtain figures on the extent of the gap between theory and reality. Secondly, what additional safety margin has been taken into account? Is it the 100°C as requested by international experts? Third, what is the standard deviation in the measurement of cracks? Indeed, we are being reassured by the fact that, if the average size has increased, it is because cracks have been connected between them and, moreover, the cracks of 15 or 18 cm are not numerous. The purpose of this question is therefore to determine whether there are many small cracks or many large ones. Fourthly, what proportion of cracks are not strictly parallel to the wall? Indeed, everyone wants to be reassuring in this case on the pretext that they are parallel. But when you read the file, you realize they're almost parallel. I would therefore like to know exactly what is the situation and the proportion of those which are not completely parallel to the wall. During the different test campaigns – there were four – did one of the tests performed on a non-faulted part due to hydrogen give a result that was not in line with what was expected or what the theory predicted? Have tests taken into account an irradiation period of more than 40 years and 50 years been carried out? Or are we still in maximum 40 years of irradiation? Why are defects now pointed to up to 150 mm in the wall, whereas in 2012 the Agency only referred to 100 mm in depth? Is it certain that there are no more than 150 mm? Does the ultrasonic measuring tool allow for any cracks that are neither fully parallel nor fully perpendicular to the wall to be taken into account? Is it possible to take into account, for example, inclined cracks? Is it possible to calculate the depth of the crack in the wall? What are the limits of this measuring device? Do you confirm that one of the rings planned for Tihange 2 was refused at the time of reception due to the excessive number of defects noted? In its safety case report of December 2012, Electrabel uses on page 82 a maximum standard of 132°C. Could you clarify what this standard corresponds to, what it represents and its scientific origin? Is it a Belgian standard or a foreign standard?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic124x.u46	Mr Nollet, I hope you know that I am always trying to be complete and honest in my answers. I also asked my services, when they provided me with the answers, to be complete. I have an experience as a parliamentarian and it is a matter of respect for me to answer in detail and comprehensively. In this case, I wish to be complete as well, but it is not always possible. As Mr Jan Bens explained in the subcommittee yesterday, at present, the AFCN cannot answer, for various reasons, all the questions asking for figures on the current irradiation tests. The AFCN recalls that, in this case, the operator's role is to demonstrate the safety of its facilities, that the role of the AFCN is to evaluate these demonstrations and that the role of Parliament is to verify the proper functioning of the AFCN, but not to review all technical issues. The information you request is, first of all, partial results and results that have not yet been fully evaluated by the safety authority and its expert committees. It should not be forgotten that many tests, such as the mechanical test of the fourth irradiation campaign, are still under way. Communicating results in this context would be an incomplete picture of the situation. However, it is not AFCN's policy to provide incomplete information or information for which it cannot guarantee accuracy. This is the position of the AFCN and this is the position that I, as the appropriate minister, support. Although the precise quantitative data on the various irradiation campaigns cannot yet be communicated, I can confirm that the results of the tenacity tests of the first irradiation campaign are not in line with the experts' expectations. That is why Electrabel decided, at the end of March 2014, to anticipate, as a precaution, the shutdown of the Doel 3 and Tihange 2 reactors. The results obtained indicate that the temperature value, which is characteristic of the tenacity of material VB 395, was more strongly influenced by irradiation than predicted by theory. One of the objectives of the fourth irradiation campaign is to better quantify this gap. In addition, AFCN wishes to point out that the documents it receives are preliminary information, on the one hand sent voluntarily by a third party, namely Electrabel, and, on the other hand, confidentially to an environmental authority. This facilitates work relative to a way of working, where the operator sends all the documents when all the tests and analyses are completed. Electrabel requested confidential treatment for each preliminary document. In this context, the AFCN is currently of the view that the protection sought for these documents outweighs the interests of public disclosure. I would remind you that the reactors are shut down and unloaded and present no risk at present. However, AFCN recalls its intention to make this technical information publicly available once the entire file has been transmitted, evaluated and a decision has been taken. The tests take into account a 40-year irradiation period with a margin. The second part of your questions concerns ultrasonic inspections of tanks and documentary analysis. It is easier to answer these questions. With regard to the inspection tool, allow me to recall that in January 2013, AFCN formulated a series of requirements to be met within the end of the first cycle of the two Doel 3 and Tihange 2 reactors. One of these requirements was the formal extension of the qualification of the inspection tool called MIS-B (Belgian Service Inspection Machine). The purpose of such an extension of qualification is to ensure that the machine is capable of detecting, dimensioning and locating, with acceptable accuracy, the defects present in the Doel 3 and Tihange 2 tanks. It should be recalled that this machine is normally used for the inspection of welds or for the detection of defects under coating. Its normal use is not the detection of defects due to hydrogen. For this reason, the AFCN requested the extension of this qualification. In this context, Electrabel must provide a complete qualification file, which implies that the MIS-B tool is also capable of detecting defects due to inclined hydrogen. This particular point was, moreover, the complementary requirement of the AFCN referenced action 3. In the same vein, this machine must be capable of calculating the size of the defects in the three dimensions, the depth of which or of inspecting the tank over its entire depth. This measuring device has, of course, its limits, but none of them question its ability to detect all the hydrogen defects in the Doel 3 and Tihange 2 tanks. Another point raised in your questions is the rejection by Electrabel of one of the rings of the Tihange 2 tank during its manufacture due to the large number of defects. This information was provided in January 2013 by AFCN on page 20 of its Provisional Evaluation Report concerning files published on the Agency's website. To answer your question, on page 82 of its Safety Case Report, Electrabel refers, as you indicated in your question, to a temperature of 132° Celsius. As stated on the same page, this temperature is obtained by applying the calculation method prescribed by regulation 10 CFR 50.61. These regulations come from the United States of America and its regulator, the United States Nuclear Regulatory Commission (USNRC). It is used for Belgian nuclear power plants.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic124x.u47	Mr President, I have a lot of disagreement with the minister, at the political level, about his design, his plans, but I have learned to know him about nuclear safety matters. I distinguish our political disagreements in plenary from the work we are doing here in the Committee on Nuclear Safety. I must tell you that at this point I have never had to blame you in your answers for wanting to hide some of the elements, not to answer completely. I know your willingness on this issue to answer us as fully as possible. However, here, for the first time, you mention the fact that you are adopting a methodological choice as to transparency, waiting for all the results to be published. I will allow myself to tell you that I do not share this choice. Why? In absolute terms, I could follow you. But, applied to what has happened and what is happening in Doel 3 and Tihange 2, I can no longer do it, because we have already experienced such a situation between 2012 and 2014. In 2012, the first tests led to the discovery – I rounded the figures – of 8,000 cracks in Doel and 2,000 cracks in Tihange. The decision is taken to close these plants. But in May 2013, the Federal Nuclear Control Agency, together with the then minister, announced that it had obtained all the guarantees and that it could be restarted. And in March 2014, 9 or 10 months later, we realized that this was not the case, that they did not have all the guarantees and that they needed to be closed in an emergency, without prejudging the final result. So there is a precedent in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic124x.u48	(...) in a different direction. They were open.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic124x.u49	But they should never have reopened.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic124x.u50	No. It was based on partial results.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic124x.u51	There! But I agree with you on that. They were based on partial results.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic124x.u52	Now they're closed. If we make decisions on the basis of partial tests, we could say we're reopening. The opposite is said: we say that we do not draw conclusions, we wait for the study to be complete, and then we make the decision based on the whole series of tests and data. In fact, you confirm...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic124x.u53	Not at all! In 2012, we said that too, we had done all the tests, we were sure of it, we could reopen. And they reopened in 2013. In fact, it was realized that there were still problems and tests were still under way. In 2014, it was necessary to close urgently on the basis of the results of these tests. What tells us that tomorrow, at the end of 2015, we don't say: here we did all the tests, we reopen and we give you access to the information. That's what you're saying. I'd like to take your answer with you. You're saying we'll be given access to the information once it's reopened. No. We must also have time to analyse the results before the reopening, and we must have an opportunity to discuss the results with you. It is not enough for the Federal Agency, after receiving the tests, to say that they can reopen and, as in 2013, to put us in front of the fait accompli. Do you understand?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic124x.u54	I get it. We can discuss it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic124x.u55	You have to. This is a methodological problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic124x.u56	Perhaps there is a difference in interpretation between the two of us as to who's role. The AFCN, based on Electrabel's report, must accept the reopening or not, depending on whether the evidence of safety is sufficient or whether concerns remain. The operator must provide the data, studies, and the AFCN must give its consent or not. Gelezen in goedgekeurd, or not. And then the parliament controls this, but not the analysis of the data. You're probably a great nuclear expert, I'm sure. But the role of parliament is to control the AFCN, and not to decide whether or not to open. I think that there is a difference of opinion on the role of everyone.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic124x.u57	Be careful! Parliament's role is in particular to monitor that the Federal Agency is doing its job well. But the role of Parliament is also to compare the data which the Belgian Federal Agency may give with other data. That's what I'm doing. When I highlight words, letters, writings from the French Agency that posed the problem in 2012 and I see that the Belgian Agency did not follow at that time, there is a problem that I have to address politically. What I do here in my approach. On the other hand, it's because there's a long history that I'm so spooky - I don't know if you know that - about the role of the Federal Agency. It lacks independence from Electrabel. She believes Electrabel on parole in 2013 and gives her green light to reopen. All in all, we realize that we shouldn't have reopened. This precedent exists. The Agency failed his mission and acknowledges it since she says we shouldn't have reopened. So let me be careful about that. That is why I will continue to ask questions. I now come back to the other elements that you have mentioned. You tell me and you confirm that the tests are carried out with irradiation up to 40 years. This is information. Thank you. You're telling me that the ultrasonic camera wasn't qualified for hydrogen defects. This is logical since it was actually qualified for defects under coating and not for defects due to hydrogen. We'll wait until we see what the qualification file says about the ability or not to see the cracks inclined. It is important to see if all the cracks have been detected at this stage. I'll go back to the famous page 82 about 132 degrees. What does this page teach us? It is that the margin of safety taken by Electrabel is 50 degrees Celsius while the international experts mandated by the Federal Agency recommended to take a margin of 100 degrees Celsius. If we had taken 100 degrees Celsius, the power plants would never have been able to reopen. We took 50 degrees while the experts said 100. What is the Federal Agency doing? She says she's not going to follow international experts, but she's going to follow what Electrabel is proposing. I see this as a second flaw in the security arrangements that the Federal Agency should bring us. That's what I'm asking you about. Safety margins are fundamental to this moment of decision-making. However, the Federal Agency did not follow what international experts had said. It is one more element that makes me say that, politically, we need to go beyond the question of the role of the Federal Agency or of the role of parliamentarians. We are here to check that all the elements are taken into consideration. We will continue the debate later because I still have a series of more specific questions on this subject. For further discussions, I ask you to take into account the fact that there has been a mistake and that our job is not simply to be blessed-yes-yes in the face of the Federal Agency. Federal Agency data must be compared with external sources. If there have been so many speakers,... You recently saw Mr. Debauche. It's not nothing! He's an insider. He's an insider. You also saw Messrs. Macdonald and Walter Bogaerts from KUL. These people have intervened from outside and challenge the federal agency that needs them. The documents of the French Agency which says that cracks can potentially evolve are challenging. I say all this so that, in our future discussions, you can consider that we need to go beyond and not just wait for the results of the Federal Agency because the experiences of the past show us that, at the moment, it does not have enough independence.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic124x.u58	Mr. Nollet, I do not share your lack of confidence in the Federal Agency. I have reviewed the various international assessments made on the Federal Agency. All benchmarks are positive for the Federal Agency. You say she's connected to Electrabel. This is a vision that I do not share, and I want it to appear in this committee's report.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic124x.u59	Mr Minister, it is indeed important that you clarify your point of view in the report. For my part, I fully accept my remarks. Admit, however, that the facts speak against the Federal Agency, including the decision to give a green light in 2013 to the restart, while it was urgent to close in March 2014 because the tests were negative. There is a problem with the Agency's methodology. Mr. Bens recognized him yesterday. She shouldn't have given the green light at that time. After that, we will see what needs to be removed from the tests when they are completed. In the meantime, a mistake has been made.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic124x.u60	In another question, Minister, I will come back to the threat of terror. This question concerns your visit to the United Kingdom. You recently decided to look at the approach to terrorism and radicalisation in the United Kingdom on the ground. It is good that you have taken the initiative to start benchmarking so that any good practice can be adopted quickly. In addition to the police, you also visited the intelligence services. In our own country, we see that the regions are making efforts to deradicalise from the point of view of their competence. During your visit to the United Kingdom, have you been aware of special prevention initiatives on terrorism and radicalisation? If so, which one? Are you planning such bilateral work visits in the near future? If so, to whom and with what specific objective? How do you see cooperation with the regions of the outermost regions, including in the area of prevention?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic124x.u61	Mr Demon, one of the reasons why we went to the United Kingdom was to get acquainted with the prevention initiatives launched by the Home Office. I have been able to speak with Mrs May, United Kingdom Minister for the Interior, about the initiatives they are developing in the area of first-line sensitisation, such as the Channel project. However, my main focus has been on the way in which the counter narrative strategy is implemented in the United Kingdom. As you know, Belgium is taking the lead in a European counter narrative project, in particular the SSCAT project, which stands for Syria Strategic Communication Advisory Team. This project is being launched together with specialists from the United Kingdom and is aimed at developing a generic counter-message strategy against, among other things, the extremist propaganda of the IS. This strategy will be made available to all European countries and regions. Several countries have already expressed their interest in this. Belgium can rely on the know-how and experience of British specialists in this field. During my visit to the United Kingdom, I was able to ascertain their professionalism. The G11 shall meet regularly in Brussels with the eleven European Member States which have foreign fighters in their territory. I proposed the SSCAT project there last Thursday. What is the purpose of this project? It is a communication advisory team that Member States can call upon. Local initiatives are then developed for counter narrative. So it is not the case that we are making a video here that is being rolled out in all the Member States. We assume that this should be based on local entities and local communities. We have brought together the know-how to do such a thing. It is an agency specialised in counter narrative counter-terrorism, which Member States can use. In my opinion, international benchmarking is essential in all areas, especially when it comes to a universal and cross-border issue of radicalisation and terrorism, which affects many European and non-European countries. I had a visit from China's ambassador yesterday. I didn't know that, but China is also facing the phenomenon of foreign fighters for Syria and Iraq. So this really is a universal phenomenon. As I have said, I am taking the lead at international level with the G11, of which Belgium is chairman. This group is able to familiarise itself with the various initiatives and strategies developed in the various countries. I therefore foresee further work visits in the near future to look closely at these projects, but do not yet have any definitive plans for this. Next week we are going to Morocco to find out which counter narrative initiatives they are taking and to look at the imam training. I know this is not my competence, but it is an essential element, so I will pass that on to the regions. The regions have the main policy levers for developing a prevention strategy. Within my powers, I can play a supportive, coordinating and intermediate role between the European level and the level of the Länder through, among other things, the General Directorate for Prevention and Security. In the consultation committee with the Länder, we agreed that there would be a consultation platform on anti-radicalism. An initiative has been taken in which we will bring together all the Community and regional actors and the federal level on a regular basis. I will also present the SSCAT project there. I think that the Communities are best placed to implement that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic124x.u62	Have such antifilms already been made and distributed on the Internet? Or is this just another idea?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic124x.u63	This goes on. The Agency is currently in contact with nine Member States. Campaigns are already taking place in two or three Member States. You were talking about videos on the Internet. That's a channel. We really need to use all the channels of communication. So it's not just about videos on the Internet.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic124x.u64	What about us?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic124x.u65	During the month of April we will do the first realizations.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic124x.u66	Debates of the European Parliament 2797 by Mr Franky Demon is converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic124x.u67	Mr. President, Minister, the Special Intervention Plan (SPP) for Chooz is currently under review. The procedure is in the process of consulting the residents. This tool contains the protective measures to be taken in the vicinity of the plant. To date, its scope of application is limited to a radius of 10 kilometres around the site. This means that only the inhabitants of the 15 French communes bordering the power station are consulted, while Chooz is truly enclaved in Belgian territory. In view of the issue of the safety of the Chooz plant for the Belgian population, the consultation of the provincial authorities alone in the Province of Namur seems to me to be insufficient. It would be logical for the population and representatives of the Belgian communes close to Chooz – I am thinking of Beauraing, Dinant, Hastière, Anhée and others – to also be given the opportunity to express their comments on the Intervention Plan and, more generally, to be more taken into account when it comes to thinking about a possible accident on the Chooz site. Minister, my question is dated 6 March, before the report of the Supreme Council of Health, which calls for even wider dissemination of iodine pills and information to the people concerned. This further reinforces the meaning of this issue. Minister, what is the perimeter of the area around which an IPP is to be established for Belgian power stations? Do you consider it sufficient in relation to the lessons to be learned from the latest nuclear accidents, particularly that of Fukushima? I refer to the hearings that have taken place very recently in the Committee on Nuclear Safety. What initiative do you intend to take towards the French authorities so that the municipalities and Belgian citizens concerned are involved in the preparation and validation of the special intervention plan for the Chooz power station, especially after the opinion of the Conseil supérieur de la Santé? Is an expansion of the intervention plan area possible? Has an application to that effect been submitted to the French authorities? If not, will she be? How do you intend to provide information to the Belgian population concerned on this subject? I stress that this population is increasingly keen to obtain clear and accessible information.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic124x.u68	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the procedure under way around the French PPI is a revision, in particular on the basis of the lessons learned from the exercise held in September, in which the French and Belgian authorities participated. As was the case with each revision, the Governor of Namur Province was consulted and had the opportunity to communicate his remarks. For the same purpose of consistency, the Belgian PPI had been submitted to the Prefecture before its approval in 2014. The plans on both sides of the border are therefore the result of regular contacts. In these exchanges, the governor is the relay of the concerns and questions of the mayors and the Belgian population to his French counterpart. The mayors had thus recently had the opportunity – in September 2014 – to share their questions and concerns during an information session attended by the Chief of Staff of the Prefect of the Ardennes. The Governor also relayed to them the invitation to the consultation session of the population specific to the French IPP. Contrary to what you say in your question, the Belgian population was welcome for this consultation. While the municipalities in the planning area around Chooz are now the subject of a specific programme to implement local planning and to increase the knowledge of all stakeholders, the other municipalities in the province of Namur also receive regular information on the various risks, including nuclear risk. Thus, the theme of planning around Chooz was discussed at the Conference of Mayors on 12 November 2014. In this general work, information to the population is not neglected and the governor as the mayors relay the campaigns carried out by the Federal Crisis Centre. As regards the scope of the emergency planning zones, the Federal Nuclear and Radiological Emergency Plan for the Belgian territory applies, for the Chooz nuclear power plant which is also part of its scope, the same zones as for the Belgian Doel or Tihange power plants: 10 kilometres radius for shelter and evacuation, 20 kilometres radius for the pre-distribution of iodine tablets. Within these areas implemented by the IPP for the Chooz power plant, specific preparation is planned as the risk in the event of a real emergency is highest and the response time is shortest. However, if necessary, emergency measures in more extensive areas of intervention than planning areas can be implemented on the basis of the general contingency and response plans of the local authorities. In the context of the updating of the Federal Nuclear Emergency Plan, which is currently taking place and which is to be finalized at the end of the year - early next year, the scope of the planning areas is being examined taking into account the following elements: scientific calculations, practices in neighbouring countries and operational strategic perspectives. The opinion of the Supreme Council of Health is reflected in this exercise to update the Federal Emergency Plan. We are waiting for the results by the end of the year, early next year.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic124x.u69	Minister, thank you for your answer. You will learn that I am particularly concerned about this file which is geographically close to me. I think this one has evolved since I asked about it. In 2007, the exercises were carried out without consultation between the Belgian and French authorities. The Governor of Namur Province takes his coordinating role to heart in this regard. Nevertheless, I remain on my hunger. When you say: "The Belgian people were welcome at the information meetings". The fact is, she wasn't or wasn't very present. I believe that the involvement of the mayors and the municipalities is too indirect in relation to the danger that a nuclear power plant may represent, especially in the light of the conclusions of the Higher Health Council aimed at extending the coverage area, both for iodine pills and for intervention plans. Other questions have been asked on the subject. You are trying to finalize the update work as quickly as possible. But as one of the Belgian plans for intervention, I ask you to pay particular attention to this plant, which is sometimes forgotten because it is situated on French territory, and to decide to give all the means necessary for prevention, which will be the subject of the debate when you present the new plan. Thank you for your attention to this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic124x.u70	Mr President, Minister, the drone problem is hot. I have not been able to put my question to your colleague this morning, but this will then be for next week. You also know that this market is developing very quickly. We know the toy drones that were first in line with the wish lists for Santa Claus. However, this is mainly about the new industrial economy that is developing. Hazodi, the police area of Genk and surrounding area, invested in such a drone a year or two ago as one of the first police zones. One of them was stolen, too. The same question is now emerging from different police zones. Yesterday I met one of your colleagues on one of our study days on the drone story. The question should be asked as to how these devices can be used. I believe Genk is a good example where a drone can have an effect. However, such devices are far too expensive to purchase. Can you, as the Minister responsible for internal governance and security, tell us whether there is any vision on this matter? This is a fairly new methodology. Yesterday I myself was surprised that it was used, for example, in traffic situations, to take photographs from the air. Many months later, these images can be used in a procedure. Two years ago, there was a pretty good design from KB that unfortunately never came. The result is that today we are hovering behind. It is therefore the challenge for the federal government to issue an RB that can ensure that the drone industry has every opportunity to guarantee safety in all its aspects. We also hope for your support for this. To what extent are you, as Deputy Prime Minister, involved in the drafting of that Royal Decree? In what way and on what applications have you had contact with yourself in this regard? Over the last few months, you've had other cats to fling. I'm aware of that. Not a week goes by or there's an article about drones in the paper. However, the device is still in the atmosphere of the attractive while many young entrepreneurs are active in Flanders and Belgium with this technology, especially in the field of safety. The project Ansecure, which was brought in at European level, offers the necessary prospects in terms of security. Do you have contacts with the various stakeholders of the drone industry? Who are these partners? What results have these talks led to? Do you or your department have a vision of the use of drones by the local police? I'm getting caught up in that question myself, but I'm holding off the boat. It is about EUR 25 000 and I believe that we should be able to use it on a larger scale. I look forward to your answer to see what a perspective could be for all those police zones in Flanders. Furthermore, I am convinced that an individualistic approach to one zone will not be the right approach. Do you foresee an overall approach or are there other partnerships between the different police zones on drone use, for example an organised purchase? Should these devices be purchased or can they be rented? Can they be used for certain activities? Have you already had the opportunity to set up a timetable with your department to implement this? I would like to thank you very much for your answer and I also hope for your support in the coming weeks to ensure that your colleague's RB on drones will offer the young drone industry every opportunity.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic124x.u71	Mr President, Mrs Heeren, I saw a demonstration at the time when I went to visit the Civil Protection Office in Crisnée, but it is the unit in Brasschaat that specialises in drone deployment. Civil Protection is already using it. For example, a drone can be used in a major accident, such as a train accident, to situate the victims. I have seen an impressive and useful demonstration of this in Crisnée. The Department of the Interior is not involved in drone use legislation. The FPS Mobility and Transport is responsible for this. However, from my department we are constantly in consultation with the intelligence and police services on certain security aspects, including the use of drones, which could pose a security problem. I have already answered questions here on a regular basis about the use of drones around nuclear power stations, even if they are not government drones. My department is not yet in contact with the various stakeholders of the drone industry. For the police, the drone may be a means to support and expand the existing form of camera surveillance. If a surveillance camera is mounted on a drone and used for the purposes set out in the law on the camera dynamometers of 21 March 2007, it shall comply with the provisions governing the use of the mobile surveillance camera dynamometers. According to current legislation, these mobile cameras can only be used by police forces in the event of a large public walk within the meaning of Article 20 of the Police Office Act, in an undecided place or a public place for non-permanent assignments which are also limited in time of execution. The law also regulates the procedure in terms of use such as viewing these images in real time and recording and storing the images. The law on surveillance cameras is currently the subject of an evaluation. The demand for the use of drones is part of that evaluation, along with other types of mobile camera surveillance. The aim is actually to bring about legislation that covers the use of this technology, adapted to evolution. What do we mean by that? The previous version of the camera legislation was too detailed. When technology evolves, no matter what it does, the law runs after them. We want to make the law on camera surveillance more generic and detach the technology, but at the same time we want to see what can and cannot be done. The technical modalities will not be specifically incorporated into the law so that we do not have to change the law over and over again when technology evolves and new devices appear on the market. In all this, the great touchstone is respect for private life and the principle of proportionality. Is the stake in proportion to the goal? We must not lose sight of this. If a drone helps a local police area to implement the zonal security plan, I can't resist that, quite the contrary. Of course, it can be interesting for the budget to proceed to a joint purchase. I'd like to take a closer look at this in the local police permanent committee. A deadline for the implementation of the drones in the local police forces is difficult for me to give at the moment. Much depends on the period during which the legislation on the use of the drones will enter into force. On the one hand, there is the law that FPS Mobility currently makes, on the other hand, there is the law on camera surveillance. Those two laws will have an influence. First we do this exercise, then we decide what is interesting for the local areas and whether we should make common purchases. Now all I can say is that anyone who wants to use drones to implement the local security plan is trying better to enter into partnerships. My department is checking to see if there's anything we can do about joint purchases.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic124x.u72	Mr President, this is indeed a matter for Mrs Galant, but it is a matter for the Council of Ministers. Both Voka and UNIZO have today sent a press release to the world with the demand to ensure that drone legislation provides a workable framework for the new industry. A KB that only regulates toy drones purchased in the Media Market is not enough, because then we in Flanders and throughout Belgium miss a lot. We are too innovative a region to miss that opportunity. I therefore explicitly ask for your support as Deputy Prime Minister. As far as camera legislation is concerned, the project Ansecure was brought in by a number of companies. This expertise is being developed with a view to safety. I can imagine that this is interesting for you in the medium term. Things are evolving rapidly in this economic sector. It would be a good thing if you were informed about this in order to find out how this can be incorporated into our federal security policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic124x.u73	Mr Minister, my question is a follow-up to a written question from me on 29 January concerning violence against private security services. The communicated figures are at least striking. For example, in 2014 820 days of work were recorded in De Lijn's security services or 2.7 days per person. SNCB then claims 564 cases of aggression with a total of 743 days of incapacity for work. There are also surprising and strong regional differences with regard to aggression, especially with De Lijn. The majority of the cases of aggression occurred in East Flanders with no less than 586 days, i.e. on average seven days of work leave per person. Then Flemish Brabant arrives with about 2.4 days and in Limburg 46 days. Antwerp and West Flanders counted almost no cases. That's partly surprising. That is why I would have liked to have asked you for the following clarification. How do you evaluate the figures? How do you explain the regional differences? I would have liked to ask a few questions about STIB's figures, but apparently none were known there. Why is that, anyway? Is there any possibility of psychological and medical guidance in the private security services for the staff who were victims of aggression? How are they prepared for this in their training?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic124x.u74	It is true that the previously communicated figures at first sight show a large difference between different regions of the Union and provinces. They do not, however, give a detailed picture of the facts or the specific reasons why the absence of work was taken up because of the cases of aggression. Neither STIB nor SNCB could seem to have an absolute number of aggressions against their security agents. Often such facts are simply not reported by the security officers. In other words, it is not so easy to draw relevant conclusions, although every case of aggression is too much. The regional cases give a somewhat distorted picture. For example, out of the 820 days of work at De Lijn that were recorded following an aggression-related employment case, almost 500 days were recorded by three security officers involved in two different incidents that happened in the same province. The remaining days of work relate to as much as 10% of all De Lijn security agents. So there are two cases involving three people. They've each taken the lion's share of the days off work. Furthermore, I can inform you that STIB does not have any information relating solely to the security agents of its security service. The security services themselves are responsible for the possible psychological support of their staff who were victims of aggression. So the security services decide what the offered guidance is, when it is given and how long it is provided. The statutory training as a security agent provides subjects such as psychological conflict management, recognition of danger situations in the public transport environment and approach techniques aimed at preventing situations of violence. Overall, training places emphasis on preventing aggression. Even if such subjects are raised in training, this does not rule out the fact that employees are victims of acts of aggression.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic124x.u75	Your answer is, of course, much clearer. The figures were not easy to analyse. I understand that it's not easy to map that, but I do think it's important. That's why it's a shame STIB doesn't do that. It can provide policy-relevant information on exactly what is going wrong and how these situations can be addressed. Each case of aggression is indeed too much. We must therefore continue to pay attention to this and make sure that aggression does not occur.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic124x.u76	Questions Nos 2668 and 2869 by Mr Metsu have been postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic124x.u77	Minister, I understood that this question would be assigned to the Minister of Justice. I thought your cabinet had notified me of that. I'd be happy to offer them to you after all. Since Friday 27 February, no security checks have been carried out at the entrance to the Justice Palace in Brussels. The security force does not have enough staff to man the scanners. From now on, visitors will only have to show their identity cards. The Brussels police also refused to provide assistance. According to the police, manning the Scan Street in the Brussels Justice Palace is not their job. They're not trained here, as they say. That is weird, especially in the situation we are in today: it is not obvious that there is no control over it. Moreover, we know that there have been some security problems in the Brussels Justice Palace in the past. Do you know why the Brussels police refused to provide that assistance to the security force? Is such a question also refused in other judicial districts? Have you discussed the issue with the Minister of Justice? What solution can be found with regard to security checks at the Brussels Justice Palace?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic124x.u78	Mrs Temmerman, the questions you are asking relate to cooperation between the security corps and the local police in Brussels. There is a cooperation agreement between the two on the security of the Brussels Justice Palace. Mr Geens, you must answer that. I understand you're involved in a ping-pong game here. I haven't talked to Minister Geens about it yet. I'll see him in the morning and I'll take that with me to see which one of us will answer. If he really does not want to answer that, I will formulate an answer, in consultation with him. I will deliver that in writing as soon as possible. However, I agree with you that this ping-pong game must stop.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic124x.u79	Thank you, Minister, for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic124x.u80	Mr Minister, over the last few weeks, not only have I, but also a number of zoning chiefs from the field have noticed how much detail is being given about our security. The threat level has been reduced by now. I will not, therefore, make a great deal of drama, but I was told that the communication of all these details goes against all the safety principles, for example, about who is guarded where, about which buildings are or are not guarded, even up to the hours of surveillance. I'm not really at home in this domain, but as an outsider, I don't think it's a good principle to share so much information, for example about who's going to ski and how many cops go along. In the present circumstances, that is not so wise. Again, I'm not alone in that criticism. Why is this always communicated in detail? Who decides to communicate about this? Is there a central agreement? Is this discussed or just depends on the local police zone or mayor? Does this process receive the green light of the OCAD and the State's Security? If there were information leaks, would we find out where they are located? Are measures being taken to stop the information leaks?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic124x.u81	Mrs Temmerman, we are doing everything we can to keep external communication on security in general and security policy in particular as businesslike and discreet as possible. However, it is another domain in which there is a need to strike a balance between giving too much information and giving too little information. If we give too little information about safety, people may feel very safe when the situation is not really that safe. If too much information is given, people may feel more unsafe than the situation actually is. So it's a difficult balancing exercise. It is always a question of striking a proper balance between, on the one hand, the obligation to provide information to the public and, on the other hand, the rules of secrecy which are in the interests of everyone's security. Now that I am Minister of Security for almost six months, I know that it is constantly a question of balancing: the balance between information and not information, the balance between respect for private life or not, the balance between not crossing a judicial investigation and yet providing information to the services in the apparatus that need this information. It's about balancing exercises all the time. It is an absolute starting point for our communication policy not to give too much information, but at the same time not to give too little information. That is the starting point for my cabinet, for all other cabinets directly or indirectly concerned with security, but also for the support services, this principle is always closely monitored. This principle has always been respected in connection with communication around the threat level. The communication around the threat level always takes place with an actual press release from the OCAD The OCAD communicates, the OCAD determines the threat level and the OCAD communicates about it to the police zones. Information on specific locations or persons shall never be provided to the press, or to other external parties, nor on the concrete security measures taken or taken. Journalists also have their contacts, of course, but from the OCAD, from the official services we never provide that information. However, preventing press leaks is very difficult, especially because the media are extremely focused on security in general and the threat of terrorism in particular. We do not really understand how the press handles this, but I still hope that journalists will assume their responsibilities and be aware of their social role and their citizenship in this area. As I have already said, the press releases are always produced in consultation with the relevant cabinets and services such as the OCAD and the Crisis Centre. The communication around capturing the level comes from the OCAD. The communication about the measures taken to this end comes from the Crisis Centre. We are doing everything we can to avoid press leaks, and I do not know at this time any leaks that would have been deliberately or unconsciously organized. We are keen to ensure that this principle is fully applied within our services. Of course, communication goes to 192 local areas, to police chiefs, to mayors, one feels that this is not a watertight system, it is a difficult balancing exercise.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic124x.u82	Mr President, Minister, I understand very well that this is a difficult balance exercise and, of course, there is also the obligation to provide information. I have to say, however, that I will not mention names which have recently brought out a number of people, politicians and others, things that should not be brought out. And again, I'm not the only one saying this. I wasn't even really perceptive about it, I've been perceptive about it by several chiefs. They say that this should not be done and that some people should use a deontological code and, in such a situation, where there is a threat, think about what they are and what they are not communicating.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic124x.u83	Mr President, Minister, as a result of the terrorist threat on our land and the determination of radicalisation, the government has proposed a series of repressive measures. However, preventive measures can also be expected from the public authorities. This should not be just one-shot initiatives. A more structural and, above all, local approach seems therefore necessary. For several years, cities such as Brussels, Mechelen, Antwerp, Verviers, Vilvoorde, etc. have been given financial incentives by the federal government to shape local security and prevention policies in the medium term. I am referring here to the so-called safety and prevention plans, or prevention contracts, as they used to be called, which run during the 2014-2017 cycle. The municipalities wishing to receive a public grant must conclude an agreement with you. It is for the Minister to determine the conditions for granting, using and controlling this financial aid to the municipalities. A Royal Decree of 2013 provides that the Minister of the Interior shall determine the exact content and presentations of the evaluation. This also happened in December 2013, through a specific royal decree which clearly lists a series of phenomena including violent radicalisation, the fight against terrorism and its financing. At police level, since 2004, there has been a particular focus on radicalisation and terrorism, inter alia, as a result of the PLP 37 circular. In January 2014, this focus was further strengthened through a ministerial directive. Additional forums were created. Mr President, I would like to say the following. How many of the closed local safety and prevention plans contain objectives related to deradicalisation? What are these objectives? Do you think that's good practice? Do you intend to appeal to those cities that do have safety and prevention plans but do not yet work on deradicalisation to do so? In other words, do you intend to encourage these cities to change their plans?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic124x.u84	Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr Demon, 14 out of 109 cities and municipalities that have concluded a strategic safety and prevention plan for the period 2014-2017 have included the phenomenon of violent radicalisation. The 14 cities and municipalities that have chosen to include this phenomenon in their strategic plan are mainly concerned with two strategic objectives, namely promoting an integrated and integrated approach, on the one hand, and adapting to criminogenic conditions and environment, on the other. To a lesser extent, the strategic objectives, the reduction of risk behaviour and the promotion of the re-socialisation of problem young people are addressed. Those plans for 2014-2017 were of course drawn up in 2013, when the focus might have been even less. I take it for granted that there are good practices in place. What I hear on the ground strengthens me in it. However, I note that there is still a great need for greater coherence and demand for coordination in order not only to identify the best practices but also to spread them further. In formal terms, however, I will only be able to respond to this after the mid-term review of the plan has taken place. As you know, cities and municipalities can therefore submit an interim evaluation dossier until the end of March. We will therefore be able to draw concrete conclusions on good practice only afterwards. I am very much looking forward to the results and will take them into account in the development of further policies. Then I'll come to your next question. As you know, the municipalities are completely autonomous, based on their local security diagnostics, to define and motivate those priorities which they wish to develop within the framework of their security plan. That's municipal autonomy. However, they have the possibility to submit an annual change file. If this change involves the integration of a new phenomenon into the strategic plan, a thematic, local safety diagnostic should be developed. You will understand that, at the time the security plans were drawn up, in 2013, the extent to which the problem of radicalisation, and especially of Syrian fighters, would have been assessed by few. I can therefore well imagine that quite a few cities and municipalities will want to adapt their local security plan to that effect. I fully support that and hope that they will take this opportunity to do so. I take this opportunity to stress that the proposed plans must also be translated into concrete objectives. I would like to emphasise that my services will actively assist them in identifying best practices.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic124x.u85	Finally, police circulars and strategic security and prevention plans are complementary. They need to be coordinated, which is precisely the responsibility of local authorities. All this must be aimed at developing a locally integrated security policy, including a local translation of the police force. In the circulars of the police we will certainly bring to the attention of the phenomenon of deradicalisation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic124x.u86	Minister, is it a feeling or a misinterpretation when I say that 14 out of 109 cities and municipalities are very little? Is some of 14 cities and municipalities that include violent radicalisation in their safety and prevention plans not bitterly little? Are there any contacts on this already? Will that number increase very concretely after the evaluation at the end of March 2015? Do you have a sense of meaning? After all, a number of 14 cities and municipalities are very little.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic124x.u87	That's absolutely little. After the evaluation, we will draw up a circular, which will state that since 2013 events that we ask for attention to have appeared in many cities and municipalities. We will also point out to them that the safety plans can be changed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic124x.u88	When should this change be in? Or can she always be brought in?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic124x.u89	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic124x.u90	It can be brought in at any time. You will make the evaluation at the end of March 2015 and will try to point out this to the cities and municipalities. And you hope that further steps will be taken in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic124x.u91	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic124x.u92	Minister, the media recently reported on a cooperation initiative in the field of ANPR cameras between the federal police and customs services. During that action in West Flanders, the police could use the customs cameras. Vehicles were checked by means of a special connection between the field camera and the customs police databases and databases. Will such actions continue to be structurally foreseen for the federal police in the future? Are there lessons to be learned from this cooperation? Which police databases were used and is there a link between this initiative and the ANPR projects of the police areas already under way in West Flanders?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic124x.u93	The federal road police, in cooperation with its partners, want to engage fully in the further automation and deployment of new technologies in order to improve the effectiveness and efficiency of its controls. The federal police have drawn up a protocol agreement with the customs services for this purpose. As regards cooperation with customs and the use of their ANPR devices in joint actions, the Federal Road Police are currently in a test phase. Two operational tests have been carried out so far in West Flanders. In the short term another test is planned in Flemish Brabant, Walloon Brabant and in Liège for the road police and in Antwerp for the shipping police. If these tests are evaluated positively, there is the possibility to plan further actions with the customs authorities in the future and with the use of the ANPR device. So we're still in a test phase right now. Cooperation between the federal road police and customs is certainly an added value, both in terms of staff, in terms of the transfer of knowledge and experience, as well as in terms of logistics, in the context of new technologies and new processes. After completing the full test phase, a clear picture of the different aspects of mobile ANPR devices will be obtained. The federal police are about to finalise a journey book to purchase mobile ANPR cameras via a market procedure. The experience gained during the tests provides added value for the quality of the workbook. During the test period, police use police databases for non-approved and non-insured vehicles, as well as a download from the General National Data Bank, such as the test action of 14 January 2015 in West Flanders. The tests already carried out and planned with the ANPR mobile cameras are a collaboration between customs and the federal road police and are only oriented towards traffic. There is no interaction with the different police zones during this test period.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic124x.u94	Minister, I know that you are always careful to give a timing, but do you have any idea when these additional tests will be carried out in Flemish Brabant and Walloon Brabant and when the conclusions can be released?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic124x.u95	I can't see that. It's short notice. I'd like to make enquiries.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic124x.u96	Suppose it is before the summer, do you still plan concrete initiatives to anchor it or have you not thought about when you could fully roll out such concrete things?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic124x.u97	We have not thought and said that if the tests are positive, we will roll out that system. The tests are scheduled for soon. I'll get you the exact dates if you wish. It will then depend on the evaluation of those tests on how quickly the cases will be implemented afterwards. We haven't taken any positive tests yet.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic124x.u98	The tests carried out in West Flanders have produced positive results, so we can actually assume that, should this also be the case with the tests that are coming, this is a system that could be rolled out further.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic124x.u99	We are already drawing up a handbook, so that is an indication that the tests have not been negative so far.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic124x.u100	Mr Nollet, I would ask you to respect the five-minute time limit in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic124x.u101	Minister, as is scientifically recognized, irradiation weakens steel. The presence of a larger percentage of plutonium/MOX hardens the neutron spectrum and thus further weakens steel. In Belgium, however, MOX nuclear fuel containing plutonium has been used in the Doel 3 and Tihange 2 reactors, which present so much concern. To what extent have cracks not increased due to the use of this type of fuel? I would also like to know whether this MOX hypothesis has already been analysed by the producer and the Federal Agency. If so, what exactly did these analyses give? If not, do you agree to ask the PSAN to seriously analyze this assumption, while remaining in your role as minister?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic124x.u102	Mr Nollet, I think you still have a few minutes bonus! MOX fuel was used in Doel 3 and Tihange 2 power plants. The resulting radiation spectrum differs from that associated with a conventional heart recharge. Indeed, it is hardened. In other words, more energetic neutrons emitted during fission reactions lead to a weakening of the tank. This phenomenon is well known and has been the subject of the necessary studies during the authorisation procedure for this fuel. Special precautions are taken when using MOX fuel elements: their number, their location in the heart, etc. However, the use of MOX is not related to the current problem of Doel 3 and Tihange 2 tanks. The origin of the defect indications is unrelated to the effect of slow or rapid neutrons on these vats. The 2012 assessment concluded that the indications are related to the so-called "hydrogen flaking" phenomenon that occurred in the manufacture of viroles. Known as metallurgicalists, it has no connection to irradiation. Electrabel also examined various causes of flake enlargement to conclude that they were stable. This conclusion is supported by the comparison of the two ultrasonic examinations after an operating cycle. Electrabel also tried to show a correlation between flake sizes and fluence, i.e. neutron irradiation, and concluded that there was no correlation between fluence and flake size. These elements have been the subject of a review by the security authority, which shares the conclusions drawn.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic124x.u103	Minister, if I understand correctly, there has been no specific analysis. There was a consideration of the theory in this area, but there was no specific analysis of the MOX hypothesis because it is considered that in 2012 there were other theoretical references. But the fact is that for the tests carried out since then, including those parts of viroles that are not affected by hydrogen defects, there were also results that were not consistent with what the theory said. I come back with the interest of having this hypothesis tested by the Federal Agency. I therefore ask you to relay it to her, taking into account the results known since 2012 on the French virole tested in Mol.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic124x.u104	Debates of the European Parliament 2890 by Mr Dedecker was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic124x.u105	Minister, at the end of the National Security Council on March 9, the Prime Minister announced the revision of the level of threat by OCAM at Level 2, with particular attention to specific places and interests. In the meantime, he announced that, at this stage, the security arrangements remained unchanged. This is a somewhat contradictory announcement. In fact, should it be understood that, at this stage, special precautionary measures concerning police officers remain in force, that the military apparatus deployed in several parts of the country is intended to remain in place for an indefinite period of time? Is that what would define a level 2+ that we're starting to talk about? Mr.Minister, whatever the options, I think that this situation must lead us to question several elements. The first concerns the fineness of the threat scale at the disposal of the OCAM today. Is a four-level scale, since the level now accepted as normal is level 2, able to reflect the nuances of the analysis? Should we not review or clarify the objective criteria that define each of these levels of threat? The second one has already been raised in the presentation of your 12 security measures. The question is what field response or package of measures corresponds to what level of threat. Your government agreement envisaged the possibility of seeking the support of the army in the event of a level 3 threat, which can be understood as a general level 3. Here we return to Level 2, but the military presence would be maintained. It would probably not be pointless to clarify all this. The third element, finally, is that of long-term intentions. Indeed, if we are to consider that certain particular places or interests are the subject of a higher threat, this suggests that measures that are now regarded as ad hoc support could, in your leadership, become elements of a quasi-permanent arrangement. I believe that such a situation requires a serious and in-depth democratic debate, because of the possible budgetary and other consequences of this: the police, the army, the interests threatened and society in the broadest sense. It would not be a question of exceptional circumstances leading to the introduction of structural policy measures through a fait accompli policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic124x.u106	Minister, after seven weeks of threat level 3, last week the OCAD decided to reduce the threat level to 2+. This means that the likelihood of an attack is considered unlikely. On 5 March, however, a new video message was distributed through France 2, in which the Belgian Muslim extremist Tarik Jadaoun threatens to attack Belgium. The reduction in the threat level is a relief for many police areas; they will be able to carry out their normal tasks again and no additional manpower will be needed. This means that there is a great deal of pressure on the corps. However, the workload will only be reduced for police forces. After all, military forces will still be deployed in the cities to continue to guard important locations. This indicates that there is still increased vigilance for a number of buildings and persons. For the military, extra alertness and commitment still apply. The army's deployment highlights the lack of capacity. In various media it was said that only 600 staff will be recruited this year instead of 1 400. We are not in favour of permanent military surveillance in our streets, while the security services are only limited in scope. Also in the security of the State, the focus is mainly on Islamic extremism and terrorism, which reduces the follow-up to the other terrorist threats. However, there are no indications that those threats are reducing. Personnel expansion is in place here for the additional task package. Moreover, I believe that out of the 12 measures announced against terrorism, only one is currently in operation. I have to conclude, once I have seen the timetables, that implementation is already somewhat behind schedule. Was the decision to lower the threat level from level 3 to level 2+ taken into account the recent threat video? During the seven weeks in which the threat level was set at 3, additional manpower was deployed. Do you have an estimate of the cost? Do you have a security approach ready for the future, which will reduce the burden on security people employed to monitor buildings, so that they do not have to be charged extra workload in the longer term? Is it true that only half of the planned recruitment of new staff will take place in 2015? How and when do you intend to solve the capacity problem? Are sufficient resources available to implement the measures announced against terrorism as a matter of priority? How long will these measures be possible to apply?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic124x.u107	First of all, with regard to the influence of Islamic State videos in the threat assessment, and more specifically on the lowering of level 3 to level 2. The level of threat is determined by the MACO, which considers each element from the AR in preparing its assessments. The IS uses social networks to perfect its propaganda, mainly for recruitment purposes. More and more regular IS videos show the losses experienced in recent weeks and the need for recruitment to compensate for these losses. These videos are more propaganda messages than real real threats. The latest videos taken by France 2 are not very recent; they date from a few weeks ago. The general level 3 for Belgium was based on concrete information and not on the few videos showing Belgian Verviers, in particular. Similarly, it was other concrete information that allowed the OCAM to lower the overall level of the threat. Of course, these videos are also taken into account, but OCAM prefers to rely on specific facts, cross-referenced information, rather than propaganda speeches. I'll repeat it for the umpteenth time. The OCAD obtains its information from seven support services, including State Security, Defence Security, Federal Police, Local Police and Foreign Affairs. On the basis of that information, they shall carry out an analysis. The security of the State shall search for the meaning, nonsense, meaning and date of origin of such video tapes. All these elements are therefore taken into account in the analysis. What is the difference between level 3 and level 2? We are now in level 2 with a whole series of buildings. There are objective elements for this on the basis of information provided by the Security of the State and which I am not going to make public. One of the elements that has played a role in this is the end of the trial against Sharia4Belgium. That is an objective element. That trial had been done for a few weeks. The impact on communities will then be looked at. That was estimated to be over. This was one of the elements on the basis of which the OCAD decided to reduce the overall threat level 3. Four threat levels have been defined in a Royal Decree of 28 November 2006 implementing the Law 10 July 2006. Level 1 is the level low: if it appears that the person, group or event that is the subject of the analysis is not threatened. The OCAD makes analyses of persons, groups, events or the general state of the threat. Level 2 is the average level: if it appears that the threat against the person, group or event that constitutes the subject of the analysis is unlikely. So that's not nonexistent. So the level 2 is not the normal level. It's higher than level one. So there's something going on. There are phenomena to this happening, but the OCAD thinks there is little likelihood that there is a general threat. Level 3 is level serious: if it appears that the threat to the person, group or event that constitutes the subject of the analysis is possible and likely. We now have a whole list of institutions, places and neighborhoods that are on Level 3. That means the threat is possible and likely. Level 4 is very serious: if it appears that the threat against persons, groups or events is serious and very close. Fortunately, we have not yet experienced that. I would like to stress that level 2 should not be banalised. Level 2, supplemented by a long list to which level 3 applies, is not an ordinary situation. So there's something else going on. In the meantime, the threat analysis procedure followed by the determination of the measures was thoroughly reviewed. This shows that it is not appropriate to link fixed measures to certain levels of threat. That's what people would think. It seems logical that certain measures should be linked to each level, but for many different reasons, for example, threat level 3. That could be an IS case, but it could also be a cyber attack. They can also be natural phenomena. The various threats therefore all require specific measures. It is not possible to introduce measures per level of threat, because they would not be targeted. A number of general measures can be taken at a certain level, but a whole series of specific measures must also be taken, depending on the nature of the threat, not the severity of the threat. Should we link firm measures to certain levels of threat, this would result in a very heavy burden on the security services, especially the police. The current system therefore consists of taking measures tailored to the problem from the various security services. This tailor-made approach guarantees not only greater efficiency, but also a better result. In practice, the OCAD sets the threat level and immediately after the OCAD has determined the threat level, the Crisis Centre meets to take action and propose measures. I am convinced that it is not wise to introduce an automatic system with certain measures for a certain level of threat. During the National Security Council of 9 March 2015, we decided to maintain the military's commitment to the points that maintain the threat level 3. As a result, the protocol between the police and the Defense Department was changed. The Council of Ministers confirmed the decision on 13 March 2015. The National Security Council looked at the dossier and made a proposal. What is the proposal? I'd like to give it to you. The government has decided that the general threat level can be reached by 3 300 soldiers. We've never hit more than 250 soldiers. That's all it took. We've always deployed at most 250 soldiers. Now we are in threat level 2 with a whole range of institutions subject to threat level 3. Before Verviers, we were also in level 2, but with a much shorter list of institutions subject to threat level 3. We have made the difference between the two. Before Verviers, we had 30 to 35 police officers to do that. We now have 245 soldiers. Before Verviers, we had 35 police officers. We have therefore decided that the difference between the two numbers is the maximum military deployment that we are now allocating to the new level of threat. The evaluation of the additional costs for federal police in terms of payment of weekend work, night work, overtime and meal allowances was carried out for an activity period of a defined duration in 2015. We have taken that period as a reference and compared it with a period with the same duration and composed of the same number of weekends That is the method of comparison. What was the use of the police during the reference period and during the same comparable reference period, when we were not under threat level 3? The difference between the two is the extra cost. The assumption was that the additional activities characteristic of the second period compared to the first period should result from the measures linked to threat level 3. In the field of overtime, only 75% of recorded overtime was chosen in one period compared to the other, because they were attributed to level 3 and became payable because those hours could not be recovered in the meantime. The extrapolation of additional costs over a two-month period would be EUR 4,102 million. An initial reference period giving rise to these payments took place on 1 March. So the data is still being processed. It will not be before the month of April 2015, after payment of the inconvenients for the period January/February, that the budgetary impact of the threat level 3 on the federal police budget will be known with precision. These costs should not forget the variable additional costs that will be billed by the Defense Department to the federal police in the context of threat level 3. These additional costs are estimated at 1.5 million euros. The impact on 2015 will therefore depend on how long the current threat level is maintained. I can also tell you that there is no final deadline at the threat level set by OCAD. OCAD has decided to make a new analysis if there are new elements, both elements of threat disappearance and elements of new additional threat. The government's decision to deploy 210 additional military personnel has been taken for a maximum of one month and will then be re-evaluated by the government. We are currently implementing the ministerial circular of 18 December 2014, in which it is requested not to make any decisions on human resources from 1 January 2015 generating irreversible movements of personnel. This measure also applies to federal police personnel credits. On the proposal of the Minister of Budget and the Minister responsible for the Civil Service, a monitoring will be submitted to the Council of Ministers during the budgetary control 2015 assessing the risk of over-expenditure. On the basis of the results of this monitoring, the Council of Ministers will lay down the procedures for easing the required precautionary measure. Budgetary control is never an easy exercise. We must respect the commitments made at European level. We must find ways to stimulate economic recovery and, at the same time, find resources to ensure our security, justice, police and intelligence services. The exercise will certainly not be easy to carry out. In a few days, the government will have the figures of the experts and will then be able to launch debates after which decisions will be taken. That is when I, as Minister of the Interior, will be able to communicate to the Federal Police an objective in terms of recruitment. Moreover, there is still a lot going on in relation to the capacity of the police. Firstly, negotiations are currently under way with the syndicated partners on police pensions. The result will have an impact on the police capacity of both the local zones and the federal police. Secondly, the core task debate will mean that we will no longer have to use capacity for certain tasks, but for core tasks. Thirdly, the organic tables are currently being drawn up by the police, with a large transfer due to staff from the central level, in particular headquarters, to the provinces. The troops will therefore be more divided into the provinces. After these three movements, we will be able to determine the additional capacity needed in the coming years.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic124x.u108	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. It's a little difficult for me without translation. I do understand a little Dutch. You did not respond to my proposal to schedule alert levels differently. There are four levels. I asked you if it would be interesting to have more levels to allow for a finer assessment of situations. I think you didn't answer, unless you said it in Dutch and I didn't understand, although I understood most of it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic124x.u109	Between the lines, maybe. No, I don't think it's useful. Threat levels are not only assessed by defining a general level. These are people and events that are under analysis. All neighbouring countries have a scale of three, four or five levels. The definition of the level of threat is general and specific cases should be considered, even with a scale of 10 levels rather than 4. It would then be necessary to determine a general level at 6, but still at 7 for some places. It'll be the same.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic124x.u110	The provisions imposed on all areas on the ground are still quite heavy, such as not being able to accommodate in a local police station with a CALOG, or that a neighbourhood agent can no longer go out on his own. Sometimes, in the field, police officers have wondered what this would be at level 4; should they be barricaded in police stations without being able to get out of it? Is it not possible to develop a finer gradation of alert levels? That was the idea of the question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic124x.u111	I don't share that idea. If these measures concern the police, it is because the police are really under threat. The target of the actions in Verviers was the police. The police measures taken at the moment are taken because the police themselves are under threat, regardless of the level of overall level 3 threat.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic124x.u112	All right.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic124x.u113	You say you're going to recalculate everything, but you can neither confirm nor deny that half of the recruitments for 2015 may not be there, you have to recalculate it all again. That's how I understood it, or isn't that right?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic124x.u114	That is right, today we have planned for 2015 to recruit around 600 people in October and December, according to the budget as it is today. We are now going to make a budgetary exercise, including the demand for capacity on the table. In addition, the police pensions and the elements I mentioned will also have an effect. So I'm not going to do any additional recruitments so soon, I want to finish those two exercises first and then see where we're going to end up. If we carry out this key task debate properly, then police capacity will be released. Depending on the completion of the pension debate, there will be opportunities for additional capacity for local areas. However, I need to map that before I start recruiting. One can say that one can never have enough policemen, I am of a different opinion. Belgium already has pro-capita incredibly many policemen today. It is therefore more important to organise them in a different way than simply to say that we are going to recruit additional ones.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic124x.u115	Minister, I have already questioned you about the Road Safety Fund. I will be brief on that. It is true that at the end of last year, on 11 December, you approved the draft royal decree on the distribution of the balance for 2009. Part of the proceeds of the traffic fines that end up in the Traffic Safety Fund was blocked because of the absence of that royal decree. You have then unblocked that to the great satisfaction of the police zones. For the year 2009, this amounted to EUR 9 million of which 5% went to the federal police and 95% to be distributed among the local areas. I have three follow-up questions. Firstly, if we assume that the amount for 2009 has been paid in the meantime, what is the planning for the promised amounts of the following years, i.e. the years from 2010 onwards? Secondly, the Royal Decree adopted at the end of last year also sets the amounts for those years. If so, what are these amounts and are we going to get a total of EUR 82 million if we put everything together? Thirdly, are there any legal proceedings in progress after many police areas had failed the Home Office?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic124x.u116	Madam, I would first like to make a technical point: you are talking about the Royal Decree of 11 December, whereas it is actually about the Decree of 30 December 2014. The payment of the balances for the years 2010-2014 will be done according to the keys provided for in the Royal Decree of 30 December 2014, to which you refer. Specifically, this means that the 2010 balance will be paid in 2015, the 2011 balance in 2016 and so on. The balance for 2010 is EUR 26 million, EUR 29.3 million for 2011 and EUR 16.4 million for 2012. You can find the exact amounts in the written version of my reply. For the 2013 conversion, the final amount has not yet been determined, as the Royal Decree on joint purchases is still being developed. As for your question concerning the total amount of EUR 82 million, we come to EUR 80, 8 million when we add to these balances the balance of the amount already granted in 2009. I would like to note that this amount was never mentioned in the Royal Decree of 30 December. Finally, your last question. There are currently two legal proceedings pending in relation to the balance. This is about the police zones Gavers and Des Arches.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic124x.u117	Mr President, Minister, it is now two years since the then Home Affairs Ministers of our country and France signed the agreement on the common approach to border crime. In our country, that agreement was ratified in April 2014, but in France it seems to be more difficult because it was still not ratified. You have already said in this House that you would pull the strings on your colleague and ask for a timing. In connection with border crime, you replied in this committee at the end of January that funds would be made available through the Road Safety Fund for two new projects in the fight against crime on the Belgian-French border. Firstly, moveable cameras to monitor traffic flow at major events, for an amount of EUR 250 000. The second project, in particular Info-Keeping our roads safer, will enrich the intelligent camera performances with additional information. The cost for this is 2.3 million euros. What's going on in France? Were there any timings? Have you been able to rush your colleague a little bit? When will the agreement be able to enter into force? Will the problem of weapons be solved, too? What is the timing of the two new projects mentioned? I have formulated the figures on border crime since 2012 in my question. Can you also give the figures for the second semester of 2013 and the first and second semester of 2014? How many cases of border crime have there been?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic124x.u118	Mrs Lahaye-Battheu, it is true that the ratification of the agreement between the two governments is stuck in the French Assemblée nationale. I saw Mr Cazeneuve last Thursday and I drew him's attention to that. However, it is just like here: the government has nothing to say to Parliament. At present, the draft law is with the Foreign Affairs Committee of the Assemblée Nationale. In addition, an impact study is prepared by the French government. It is now at the stage where the public can comment and make contributions. I don't get precise timing from France. I'll stay a pain in the ass for my colleague until it's done. He knows we think it's very important. Paragraph 1 of Article 29 of the Convention provides that the Convention shall enter into force on the first day of the month following the date of receipt of the second notification to be made to each other in the course of their respective ratification procedures. Since Belgium has already ratified the Convention, its entry into force therefore depends on the notification to Belgium by the French authorities and thus on the completion of the French ratification procedure. Unfortunately, I can't put a date on it right now. Article 15, third paragraph, of the Convention provides that the conditions for the arms trade by the French police on Belgian territory shall be governed by Article 19 of the Council of the European Union Decision 2008/615/JHA of 23 June 2008 on the stepping up of cross-border cooperation, in particular in the fight against terrorism and cross-border crime, also referred to as the Prüm Council Decision. This means that when French police officers operate on Belgian territory under the Tournai II Convention, they can wear their uniform, basic equipment and basic armament during these actions. As regards the funds that would be released through the Road Safety Fund, two new projects were referred to. A first project concerned a system of mobile camera performances, with the corresponding software. This should be used to monitor traffic flows through a camera network at major events such as concerts, events, etc. It was chosen to provide for a first phase of two systems, namely a system of ten cameras purchased through the common purchases of the Road Safety Fund and a system of ten cameras purchased by the federal police. A second project to combat cross-border crime is Info-Keeping our roads safer. Intelligent cameras are enriched with information from databases of different police forces. A working group within the integrated police has already met several times for the technical and functional analysis. This will result in a charge book and a public contract. At present, it is not possible to set a specific date for implementation, but the work is ongoing. As far as your sixth question is concerned, I will give you some global figures. If you ask the question in writing, I can give more detailed figures. In the second half of 2013, there were 19 serious offences of border crime. In the first semester of 2014 there were 39 cases of border crime and in the last semester of 2014 there were 23. You can obtain more figures via a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic124x.u119	Thank you, Minister, for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic124x.u120	The next item on the agenda is Question No 2915 by Mrs Dierick, but she is not present. Since she has not asked to postpone her question and given that we cannot reach her, I am applying Article 127, tenth paragraph, of the Rules of Procedure and consider the question withdrawn. Questions Nos 2926 and 2927 by Mr Degroote are converted into written questions. Questions Nos 2928 and 3077 by Mrs Becq and Mrs Temmerman were postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic124x.u121	Mr. President, Minister, the Supreme Council of Health has looked at how we ensure safety and health concerns for residents of nuclear power plants in the event of a nuclear accident. It recommends that our country improve its action plan with regard to, inter alia, the preventive distribution of iodine tablets in order to protect our population, especially children, pregnant women and young people under the age of 18. It recommends that these tablets be made available within a radius of 20 kilometres to 100 kilometres around the power stations and stresses the speed with which the tablets should be distributed and ingested. Within hours of exposure to a cloud, the iodine thyroid must be saturated. Today, within a 20-kilometre radius, there is a supply of tablets in families and pharmacies. In a wider radius, potassium iodide reserves should be available, which is not converted into tablets. The Higher Council of Health recommends the mandatory presence in all pharmacies and hospitals of large packs of iodine tablets, within a 100 km radius. Minister, what are you going to do about this recommendation? From the moment it is a 100 km radius around areas containing nuclear materials, given the size of Belgium, would it not be more interesting to make these tablets available in all pharmacies and other places planned throughout the country? Finally, the Supreme Council of Health proposes that consideration be given to the length of time these tablets should be taken. For the time being, it still remains an unknown. How, with whom and how do you intend to follow up on this proposal?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic124x.u122	Mr President, Minister, in addition to what my colleague has said, I would like to know your analysis of the proposals put forward by the Higher Health Council. Are you going to follow them? Do you share the idea that it would now be necessary to extend the distribution radius of iodine pills to 100 kilometres? As things stand, it is up to me that it is impossible for a citizen wishing to protect himself and his family, to obtain, even by paying them, iodine tablets if he does not live within a radius of 20 kilometres of the reactors and if he is not equipped with a document from the commune, kind of "good to deliver". Do you confirm that? Is it not absurd to deny a citizen basic protection? A person who lives 22-23 km away, who has just learned that the Conseil Supérieur recommends protection within a 100 km radius, could not, in a voluntary procedure, obtain these tablets? That might reassure some of us, and I believe that is the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic124x.u123	Mr Nollet, I invite you to ask your question No 3094. The minister has just informed me that he has taken this into account in his response.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic124x.u124	Mr. Minister, my question relates to the worrying safety remarks made by Mr. Debauche, professor of radiation protection at UCL and, moreover, former Director of Safety Services at IRE, in short, a specialist in the matter. He has recently expressed himself in the daily L'Avenir and in the wake on television antennas, pointing out all the weaknesses and shortcomings of our nuclear emergency plan. What do you remember from that real alarm cry he just made? What political conclusions do you draw? What is your schedule of work in this area? Shouldn't this expert be involved in the ongoing work? More broadly, how do you react when Mr. Debauche says he has "the impression that mentalities are derailing, that finance is too likely to want to muzzle decision-makers, including politicians"? What budgetary means are you prepared to identify to meet the challenges identified?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic124x.u125	My services have taken note of the opinion of the High Health Council on the distribution of iodine tablets in the light of the national nuclear emergency plan. We have also seen Mr. Debauche's statements in the media, also with regard to the response model of the authorities, in particular the organization of the complex problem of large-scale evacuations. As you point out, Mr. Debauche is an expert in radiation protection. In an earlier position, he was responsible for the security services of IRE Fleurus, working in particular for the exploitation of the Institute's activities under secure conditions and for the prevention of emergency situations at IRE. As I explained on 21 January and yesterday in Parliament's Subcommittee on Nuclear Safety, the national nuclear emergency plan is currently being updated. The intention is to complete this contingency plan by the end of 2015, early 2016. This update shall be carried out in consultation with all actors with responsibilities in the plan, each of which may express its opinion on the basis of its own responsibilities and for its field of expertise: radiological and technical experts; administrative authorities at the federal, regional, provincial and communal level; specialists in communication of operational disciplines; etc. It is also necessary to take into account the means and budgetary aspects of the strategic choices that are envisaged and finally agreed upon. One of the many aspects which are being reviewed and assessed on their topicality is the extent of emergency planning areas for direct protection measures for the population, such as shelter, evacuation, iodine tablet intake and strategic choices for the preparation and implementation of these measures. The strategy and preparation for iodine prophylaxis cannot be separated from other protective measures, since taking iodine in the event of a real emergency will not be an isolated action independent of other measures. We must therefore consider the strategies that are being put in place or used in our neighbouring countries and how they are being implemented in practice. This should take into account the operational and budgetary implications in relation to the relevant opinions of national and international expert groups, in particular the Federal Nuclear Control Agency. The impact and scope of strategic choices within the framework of the nuclear emergency plan must be consistent with other risks with important consequences which Belgian territory can face and for which contingency plans can be drawn up. Given the complexity and nuance of the ongoing discussions in this area, you will understand that it is premature to take a position on the advice of the High Health Council or on other existing opinions, for example from interest groups. It goes without saying that the elements of these opinions will be included in the ongoing discussions between the relevant administrations. A meeting has already been scheduled for tomorrow between the Crisis Centre, the FANC, Public Health and my cabinet, where the advice of the High Health Council will be discussed. As far as the cost of any general distribution of iodine tablets is concerned, I cannot give you any data because it depends on how this distribution would take place. This should be within the framework of strategic choices. The necessary budgets come from the nuclear fund which is being fed by the nuclear sector. Mr President, I would just like to say that I am prepared to hold any discussion with Parliament. However, it would be good to do a division of tasks between this committee and the Committee on Nuclear Safety. It happens to me that we often do double work. I am prepared to do anything if Parliament asks me to do so, but efficiency is also valuable. Perhaps we should agree with your colleague Peter Vanvelthoven. Perhaps anything related to nuclear safety can be dealt with in one committee. Otherwise, we're gonna do double work. But this is merely a suggestion and nothing more than that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic124x.u126	Thank you, Mr. President. I do not have a problem with asking a question in the subcommittee on nuclear safety rather than in the Committee on the Interior, but it is true that, at the moment, this kind of arrangement is not foreseen. I hear that tomorrow there will be a meeting with, among others, representatives of Health, to address these recommendations of the Supreme Council of Health. It is a body that has weight and serves as a reference in the organization of health policies. Preservation, in the face of someone who is exposed to radiation, is obviously one of the obligations we have to meet. I think that the budgetary concerns should be borne in mind, from the moment we accept a potentially dangerous activity, that the risks must be covered by these operators. If the budget is higher than today's budget, then these operators will have to be asked to increase their participation if necessary. I believe that no risk or weakness can really be accepted in the follow-up of these people who may be exposed to radiation. Since there is a meeting tomorrow and, therefore, you will adopt a position on the follow-up to be given, I will allow myself to ask you again in this regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic124x.u127	Mr Minister, I am still a little hungry about the reaction and political analysis that you are making of Mr Debauche's remarks, since both issues have been linked, so I will go back to that first. I hear and can totally join my colleague when she says we'll be back once the meeting has taken place. But this concerns the Higher Council of Health component. Mr Debauche's remarks are still pending unless you discuss them tomorrow too. Is that the case, actually?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic124x.u128	Tomorrow's discussions are in preparation for the plan...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic124x.u129	So you'll discuss it, too? Then we'll also go back to that later. I understand that you are continuing the necessary work on updating, and we remember the discussions in the nuclear safety sub-committee. I don't see any problem with our questions being directed over there, but for now, that's not possible. And here, in addition, you have to drop them off in advance, so that's how I did it. But okay to think about it. Now, two very specific points: on the situation that I mentioned of a person who already wishes to be able to obtain iodine pills today and who is not within 20 kilometres, how can it be done? Part of my question was related. Okay, maybe tomorrow you'll think about extending. We're not here yet, we're waiting for the full plan. Imagine a person who lives 22 or 23 km away and wishes to buy this iodine pill by paying for it. For her, is there any way to get some somewhere? At this point, no. According to my information, in order to obtain this pill from a pharmacist, you must have a document from the municipality and live within 20 kilometres. She lives here 21 or 22 or 23 kilometres from the power plant. However, she heard that in the long run, the distance could be extended. So she's waiting, no problem. Nevertheless, she would like to go on her own to get this pill. Is there no way to unblock this situation so that those who want to go for this iodine pill, can have access to pharmacies within a radius of 20 kilometres?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic124x.u130	I'm going to investigate this.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic124x.u131	As part of the reactions of Mr. Debauche, who had issued a series of criticisms, he advised that an in situ exercise should be conducted. We were talking about it yesterday about Antwerp where you explained the situation. I ask that a similar exercise involving schools be held in Tihange. You explained that an exercise took place in Doel. If you could take this into consideration also for Tihange.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic124x.u132	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Burton converted 2947 into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament 2963 by Mrs Jiroflée has been withdrawn. Debates of the European Parliament 3115 by Mrs Van Vaerenbergh is converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament 3137 by Mrs Jadin is answered by the Prime Minister. Mr Nollet's questions Nos. 3039, 3040, 3041 and 3042 are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic124x.u133	Mr President, Minister, in response to a written question from our chairman of the committee, the Minister stated that the government intends to issue a royal decision which will, among other things, impose stricter penalties on the VL stickers on the license plate instead of the B licence plate. At present, this is an infringement of the first degree, the lightest possible infringement, with a fine of EUR 55, in case of immediate recovery, EUR 65 by friendly settlement and EUR 60 to EUR 1 500 if dealt with in court. Apparently we are now thinking of making this an infringement of the second degree, which in the case of immediate collection costs EUR 110, is fined with EUR 120 in a friendly settlement, and in court with EUR 120 to EUR 1 375 and possibly even with a driving ban. Minister, the answer to our committee chairman's written question is that a royal decision is currently being worked on to turn that infringement into a second degree infringement. On your Facebook page I learned that it is a draft from the previous government. The intention for entanglement certainly raises questions, especially since you yourself say in your written reply that the leftover of the B-sign has no influence on the registration plates and does not interfere with identification. I do not see why this should be punished more severely. I ask myself why this is punishable at all. I would have expected that it would not be criminalized for longer than it would have been subject to stricter penalties. My first question is therefore why the application of such a sticker would be changed from an infringement of the first degree to an infringement of the second degree. Is that purely for budgetary reasons or is there another motivation behind it? Secondly, are you considering instructing the police to treat this breach with the lowest possible priority while this is still considered an infringement? It seems to us that the police have more important tasks to perform these days. Finally, Minister, do you intend to enter into consultation with your fellow Members in order to remove the criminalisation of a VL sticker, rather than the intention to impose stricter penalties?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic124x.u134	Mrs Pas, I understand that you would like to highlight that story once again. I thought I made that clear, but I'll repeat it. I admit that the answer to the written question was somewhat sloppy. Now let me tell you what the intentions are. It is absolutely not my intention to regard the application of a VL sticker as a second-degree infringement from now on. It is not my competence, it is the responsibility of the Minister for Mobility. I've been through that with her, and it won't happen. There was indeed a royal decision by the previous government, which is still on the table and from which you could derive that. However, I have contacted the Minister for Mobility and we will not do so. The reason why there was something similar in a previous royal decree is that they do not want license plates to be damaged and pasted, so that they are not identifiable. That is the valid reason why things have arisen. As far as the "B" is concerned, that's international law. We can't get out of that. That is something you need to address at European level. You're right. Today, the police have a lot of different priorities than that. I asked the police not to make that a priority at all. If all other criminal cases are resolved, perhaps we can see what we should do under the international road code. Given the movement we're both coming out of, I understand that it's been nice for you to expose that. I hope I've put things right here once and for all. We will not regard the application of a VL sticker as a second-degree infringement. However, we cannot delete that as a level one violation. I can't, but it's not a priority for the police.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic124x.u135	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I also put the question to Mrs Galant. I was specifically concerned with the directives to the police. You refer to the European level. I am also aware that European legislation only allows the registration number of recognised Member States on the license plate. However, I believe that country-specific arrangements should remain possible. In fact, we are already moving away from that at the moment. We asked for an exception for the white red colour of our plates. In the context of free choice and freedom of expression, people should be allowed to choose whether to put a B, VL or W sticker on the car. I believe that can be organized. I hope that you will insist that it be removed in this form and that it is no longer punishable in the future. We shall certainly take a legislative initiative to this end. You can expect that bill one of these days.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic124x.u136	Thank you, Minister, for allowing me to ask this question today. It has been a few years since commotion arose after it had been made public that in the first name of children of Belgians or non-Belgens of Moroccan origin born here and declared at the civil status of a municipality, a list of Moroccan first names was presented to parents in a number of cases. Those parents were more or less obliged to choose a first name from that list. Some services of civil status did so at the request of the Moroccan government. They demand that Moroccan nationals, even if they are Belgians born and raised in that country, give only Moroccan names to their children who must be chosen from an official list drawn up by the Moroccan authorities, even if these children are born here in Belgium from Belgian-Moroccan parents. If the parents fail to do so, they may encounter all kinds of difficulties with the Moroccan authorities. This is a process which was not only the result of Moroccan regulation but also of international private law. When there was a lot of commotion about this, my colleague Peter Logghe and also current Flemish minister Ben Weyts asked questions about it in the Chamber because they found it unheard of that our municipal administrations cooperated in this process by effectively submitting these lists to the parents concerned in a number of cases. Ben Weyts rightly said that the system provides a Moroccan perpetuum mobile that aims, among other things, to bind the Moroccan colony in this country and elsewhere to Morocco and to impose a Moroccan-Arab identity on them. He was also of the opinion that the issue of private international law and Moroccan law had enough crowbars and discussions to resolve this far-reaching interference by Morocco in our country through diplomatic contacts. From the answers to those questions, it was clear that the previous government was not very happy to respond to them, and I suspect that nothing has happened in that regard. Minister, are such practices still in place? What is the status of this file? Is this list still submitted by one or more municipalities in this country to the parents of Moroccan origin for their child's choice of name? If so, where? What is being done about this? Do you have a view on this or will you start an investigation on the matter? Do you send a circular to inform the municipalities of the illegal nature of this? Are any steps taken by you to the competent colleagues to bring Morocco to a better conclusion on this matter and to adapt private international law, as requested at the time, so that a foreign power can no longer interfere in the first name of children born in this country? Do you have a view of whether there are other states where there is a similar problem?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic124x.u137	Mr President, Mrs Pas, this question concerns naming, on the one hand, and private international law, on the other. Both naming legislation and the Private International Code fall within the competence of the Minister of Justice. For the sake of completeness, I should like to add that in general teachings on the holding of population registers, the only instruction to the municipalities is that they should take over the names and first names in their population registers as they appear in the birth certificate. As far as the choice of first names is concerned, it is not for my department to issue guidelines on this matter to the municipal authorities. It belongs to the Ministry of Justice. I can add that I, together with Secretary of State Francken, will be visiting Morocco next week in the context of the fight against terrorism and repatriation of criminals without residence papers. We shall also raise this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic124x.u138	Thank you, Minister, for taking it literally with you to Morocco during your visit next week. I thought I was at the right place with you. At the time, discussions were also held with the Minister for the Interior, because they were civil servants who presented the list in the municipalities. As far as that aspect is concerned, I'm still hungry. Do you have a view of it or is it done by those officials? Is research being carried out or is it completely unknown? I will put the question to the Minister of Justice.
