ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic111x.u1	I'm not talking about a problem. I'm talking about an opportunity. Thanks to Swissleaks, Belgium came into possession of a lot of very interesting information about a large number of Belgians who had managed to withdraw their funds from the sight of the tax authorities for not small amounts. We could use that information. If we really want to use that information, which comes from a whistleblower and is perhaps outdated, it would be useful for our officials to get additional information available from banks in Switzerland. Unfortunately, the 1978 agreement between Belgium and Switzerland does not allow this. In April 2014, however, an avenant was added to that agreement. We've been 11 months. The ratification of the Avenant would be really helpful. If not, I fear that Switzerland will feel bound by the old treaty and will not answer the questions of Belgian tax officials. What progress has been made with the ratification of the Avenant, which, if I understand correctly, needs to be approved in seven parliaments? It's a mixed avenant. It is time to make quick work of it if one wants to use the avenant usefully in the many files that we got from Swissleaks.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic111x.u2	The Government is well aware that the Avenant of 10 April 2014 is of great importance for the double taxation agreement between Belgium and Switzerland, in particular in order to be able to exchange data in a serious way. The parliamentary approval dossier has been prepared by the administration and is before the Treasury Inspectorate for advice. That's the status of the file right now. I will insist that it be dealt with as soon as possible. You understand that it's hard for me to talk about timing.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic111x.u3	Minister, I am very pleased that the resolution is already in place. I can assure you that as soon as the avenant is lodged in the Chamber, the chairman of the External Relations Committee will put it on the agenda as a matter of urgency.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic111x.u4	Is your afternoon okay now?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic111x.u5	That's constructive opposition, isn't it? [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic111x.u6	Mr President, Minister, Articles 412 and 413 of the 1992 Income Tax Code determine the time limits within which taxes are to be paid. These articles assume to become public order and therefore cannot simply be deviated from it. In practice, we know that tax recipients allow a daily deviation from these articles for dozens of payment plans. Until recently, this was based on the so-called accounting obligation of those recipients. In the absence of payment by the taxable person, the recipient with his personal property guaranteed the payment of the tax debt unless he could prove that he had done everything possible to force the taxable person to pay. That was rather a theoretical concept and in the meantime it was abolished. At present, the responsibility of a tax collector is almost the same as that of any other official. The tax collector is now liable for intent, serious error and repeated minor error. However, the question arises as to whether a recipient, who, since the abolition of the accounting obligation, still permits payment plans and thereby knowingly disregards public policy provisions of law, is thereby proposing an act which can be interpreted as a serious error. That is why I have four specific questions for you, Minister. Firstly, can a tax collector in the current situation still allow payment plans? If yes, on the basis of what legal provisions? Secondly, if the possibility of obtaining such a payment plan under Articles 412 and 413 WIB is not provided for by law, does this not constitute a breach of the principle of equality? If someone pays his taxes in good time, they can't do anything else with those pennies. While to the person who does not pay them in time, a kind of cash credit is granted on an unlawful basis, if there is no legal basis and at the expense of the State. Can this not be interpreted as a violation of the principle of equality? If so, what are your plans to reverse that breach? Thirdly, the interest on the payment plans to date amounts to 7% net on an annual basis, calculated on a monthly basis. This percentage has been unchanged for years. In the current economic context, 7% is very high. In view of the fact that a pay-off plan is intended to help people or companies in temporary financial difficulties, but not primarily to raise higher interest rates for the State, my third question is therefore whether it would not be more equitable to reduce that interest. Have you taken any initiatives to change that interest? The tax recipient does allow a payment plan, but has no power to grant a possible remission of interest. This can only be done at management level. Do you have any plans to change the M.O.?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic111x.u7	Mr President, Mrs Pas, first of all, I would like to point out that the law of 22 May 2003 on the organisation of the federal state's budget and accounting system did not abolish the obligation to account of the recipient, but merely eased the liability of the State's accounting officer. The powers of the recipients, accounting officers of the State, were not altered in themselves. Therefore, it remains possible for the recipient to allow payment facilities. There is no legal provision empowering the accounting officer recipient to derogate from the statutory payment deadlines by allowing additional payment periods. However, the accounting officer has the possibility to organise recovery and prosecution independently and on his responsibility and to provide payment facilities for that purpose. These payment periods relate only to a tolerance by the accounting officer to whom the person liable for payment is not entitled or is entitled. As far as your second observation is concerned, the principle of equality implies that persons in a similar situation must be treated equally. However, that principle does not preclude the imposition of a difference in treatment of certain categories of persons in so far as that difference is based on an objective criterion and is reasonable to justify. Payment facilities are granted only to persons with payment difficulties, which justifies the difference in treatment. As far as interest is concerned, the answer is no. The interest remains 7 %. In this context, I would remind you that, in the case of the moratorium interests, i.e. the interests granted by the State on the basis of Article 418 of the Income Tax Code, in the case of repayment of taxes, pre-payments, pre-payments, negligence, tax increases or administrative fines, an interest rate of 7% also applies. As for your fourth question, the answer is no. There are no changes, for the simple reason that practice indicates that the procedure is working properly at the moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic111x.u8	Thank you, Minister, for your answer, particularly on my first two questions. It has brought legal clarity, which was not there for every person concerned. Unfortunately, the rate of 7% is not affected because, in the current circumstances, the State cannot obtain such high interest rates on any international capital market without taking special risk derivatives. It seems to me that it is no longer time to charge such high percentages to our own citizens. I therefore regret that, but otherwise I am grateful for your clarity on the other questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic111x.u9	Minister, during a debate in the Flemish Parliament on 26 February last, a question from Mr Annick De Ridder to Minister Ben Weyts showed that there is a practice in certain trade union organisations at De Lijn whereby traffic fines incurred by De Lijn drivers during their work are refunded by the trade union. This may or may not be done on top of a partial refund by De Lijn itself, depending on the nature of the offence and the recidivism. I will not set up a tree about the way in which this is yet another sign of a special anti-social policy that actually undermines road safety policy, both by De Lijn and by the Flemish and federal authorities. It's actually a blow to the face of the parents of road victims. However, I would like to ask you a question about the tax consequences. First of all, what are the tax obligations today when traffic fines incurred by employees during duty hours are partially reimbursed by the employer or paid directly by the employer? I take it that a sheet must be drawn up by the employer and that payment is treated as an advantage of all kinds. Secondly, what are the tax consequences if part of this refund is not made by the employer but by a third party, for example the union within a company? Is there still an advantage of all kinds that must be declared and taxed in one way or another? What about that? Thirdly, have your services already carried out checks in this area to see to what extent the current practice at De Lijn and the trade unions concerned is in conformity with tax legislation? What are the sanctions for those involved if they were not?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic111x.u10	Mr Dedecker, if De Lijn or a trade union repays traffic fines that De Lijn employees have received during their hours of service, that would constitute a taxable advantage of all kinds for the De Lijn employee. That advantage must be stated by the trade union or trade union on a wage sheet and must be subject to the rules on the withholding tax. The same principles apply when De Lijn or the union pays those fines directly. Only in very exceptional circumstances can such payments or refunds not be regarded as a taxable advantage for the employee of all kinds but as a non-taxable reimbursement of costs of its own to the employer. This is the case, for example, where an employee incurs a traffic fine resulting from a mandatory instruction from his or her employer, e.g. emergency workers who have to go to the place of an accident very quickly and commit a traffic offence in the performance of that task. This is indeed an exception to the general principle. However, it seems to me that these exceptional circumstances do not apply to De Lijn. No specific control action was launched in this area. If such a situation is identified, the tax adjustments and sanctions provided for by law will be applied.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic111x.u11	Mr President, Minister, your answer is clear. If De Lijn or the union repays those fines, it is indeed an advantage of all kinds, it must be mentioned and it must then be subject to the rules for the company tax, as you say. I therefore propose that effective controls be carried out, because sometimes it goes very far. You may have seen the images of the different situations in the different provinces. Fines were refunded for drunk driving and phone calls behind the wheel. This is unacceptable, both morally and from the point of view of road safety. I would suggest that there should also be a proper tax check. The rules are clear, you explained them clearly once again. I would ask you to take the initiative to carry out checks, if not, I will also put a question to your colleague Mr Sleurs.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic111x.u12	Mr President, it is a technical question, but it can also be done in this committee. As regards corporation tax, Article 184c of the Income Tax Code states that a liquidation reserve can be established. One of the conditions for the winding-up of the special tax regime for this purpose is that it must be kept permanently on one or more separate accounts of the liability and not be used as a basis for any remuneration or award. The question arises as to the tax consequences of taking over a company which has created a liquidation reserve through a merger-like operation, a so-called parent-subsidiary merger. As a result, the own funds of the acquired company, including the liquidation reserve, will be completely eliminated. However, Article 211 (2), fourth paragraph, provides that in such a situation there should be no reduction in certain capital gains, capital subsidies, exempted reserves, exempted depreciations and exempt commissions as such contained in the accounts of the acquiring company. Mr Minister, can you confirm that the liquidation reserve for the amount for which it was built up with the company being acquired can also be re-established by the acquiring company following a merger-like operation, with the special tax regime for the liquidation reserve continuing to apply? I have to admit, Mr President, that I have not tested this question in relation to Mr Hautekiet's programme, which is very clear. I admit it's not a simple language, but that's professional jargon.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic111x.u13	You know, Mr Van Biesen, that I was the first lucky person to have the stamp printed "Beautifully clear," so I will try to answer in line with that pattern, although this is not evident for such a question. In view of the fact that a parent-subsidiary merger is the legal act whereby the acquiring company already held all the shares of the acquired company and the favourable regime in relation to the liquidation reserve is intended only for the shareholders-natural persons, it seems highly unlikely that a liquidation reserve will be established in the case referred to by you. In the present case, the principle of fiscal neutrality, as referred to in the article of law to which you refer, departs from the common law and applies only to the cases referred to in that article. The Constitution does not allow this principle of fiscal neutrality to be extended by analogy to cases which it does not intend to pursue. The winding-up reserve which may be established in accordance with the legal provisions shall be included in the taxable reserves. A parent-subsidiary merger has the effect that the taxable reserves of the acquired company are no longer recovered in the assets of the acquiring company, so that the condition for maintaining the liquidation reserve is no longer met.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic111x.u14	Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister for his reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic111x.u15	Mr Minister, in the case of corporation tax, Article 198, 11° of the Income Tax Code provides that interest on loans paid or granted in a number of situations is not tax-deductible, depending on the position of the actual transferee. This measure has been introduced so that profits in the same, usually multinational group, are not artificially shifted due to excessive borrowing costs. The limitation on deductibility shall apply, inter alia, where the actual purchasers of the interest are part of the whole of related companies within the meaning of Article 11, to which the debtor belongs. Pursuant to Article 38 of the Royal Decree implementing the Company Code of 30 January 2001, the acquisition value of intangible and tangible fixed assets may include interest on debt used for their financing, but only in so far as it relates to the period prior to the ready-to-use of those fixed assets. It concerns so-called intercalary interests. In certain situations, this interest will be caused by loans from affiliated companies. Mr Minister, should the restriction contained in Article 198 be applied in this situation, since no interest is included in the figures during the year of activation as financial costs? If the restriction contained in Article 198 is not to be applied during the year of activation, should it be applied at a later date, for example at the time of depreciation of the asset whose acquisition value is partly composed of the activated intercalarary interest?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic111x.u16	It's almost an exam question from the final tax law exam. What does being ready for business mean, Mr Van Biesen?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic111x.u17	You are not the questioner, Mr President.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic111x.u18	I'm trying to understand the question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic111x.u19	For the record, I'd also like to...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic111x.u20	We'll have the Minister give us the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic111x.u21	Mr Van Biesen, although without prejudice to the application of the general anti-abuse clause, the legal situation in question does not apply in the situation described by you, either for the financial year in which the interests are activated or for the financial year in which the assets in question are written off.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic111x.u22	Thank you for your reply, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic111x.u23	10 out of 10.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic111x.u24	Mr President, Minister, some time ago I asked you a question following a consultation meeting within your administration, with your firm, to examine the possibility of extending the VAT exemption to non-food donations. You had told me that, according to the initial conclusions of this meeting, it was not possible to extend it, but you did not know the reasons, since it was the day after that meeting and you had not yet had the opportunity to read the reasons given. As I have already said on this occasion, it was a resolution that we voted unanimously in the Senate in the last Parliament, which proposed this expansion after more than a year of operation for food donations. It is a subject on which we have worked a great deal and which is of particular interest to me. I would have liked to know the results of the consultation meeting you mentioned and whether you had thought about extending the exemption to in-kind donations.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic111x.u25	On 25 February, Minister, you replied that you had not yet been debriefed or enlarged. In the retail sector, one wonders what can be done with food surpluses if they do not go to the food bank. You referred to the possibility of doing something with the OCMWFs. In addition to food, there are other products for which a donation without VAT would be possible. You would ask what amount of donations would have taken place in the meantime. I thought this could be traced through the food banks anyway.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic111x.u26	On 24 February, in agreement with all interested parties, it was decided to extend the relevant administrative tolerance in relation to food surplus donations to the approved food banks to donations to local authorities and local charitable associations, recognised by these local authorities, without VAT being due. The aim is to facilitate donations by local shops and smaller department stores in the future. As a result of this consultation, my administration is currently preparing a decision on this matter. The existing administrative tolerance could therefore be expanded to include new actors. On the other hand, an extension of this tolerance to goods other than foodstuffs intended for human consumption – clothing, whether old-fashioned or not, hygiene products, blankets, electronic devices, etc. — is not possible. This would be in contradiction with European and Belgian VAT legislation. Mrs Becq, I do not have the figures yet. You can count on me to submit them as soon as I have them in my possession.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic111x.u27	Mr Minister, I must confess that I do not understand why donations would not be in contradiction with VAT legislation. This is the question that arose at the time of the decision on food donations. If there was a contradiction, Finance Ministers had to ask for a VAT derogation, which is almost impossible at European level. Here, we had embarked on an approach of administrative tolerance. Maybe it's bad will, but in this case, I prefer to be told that envy is not, for good or bad reasons. I do not understand why there is no possibility of extending the exemption to other objects – you have cited clothing, furniture, household appliances and what I know now – while food donations already enjoy tolerance. Objectively, I do not understand why this would be in contradiction with European legislation, knowing that France is applying the exemption. However, France is also in the European Union; I confess that I do not understand.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic111x.u28	Thank you, Minister, for your answer, because it is an important opportunity for enlargement, especially for the non-large stores that work with the food banks. Local traders and the NCAV are asking that that possibility should exist. I think that is a good thing. I do have one more question. You talk about local authorities, both OCMWs and municipalities, who want to use this further and those recognised by local authorities. Will you draw up a directive or criteria on this issue, or is it enough for our ship's college to decide tomorrow which charitable organisations can be used? Will you continue to issue a letter on this subject, or is it sufficient for a local government to decide by decision of the college or the city council which local service institutions consider it to be subject to this directive?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic111x.u29	In any case, it will involve charitable associations recognized by local authorities. We therefore place responsibility in the good sense of the word'society' really on the local authorities. As I have indicated, the matter is currently being prepared by the administration. I can't put a timing on that, but I'm assuming it can go fast. At that point, there's no more discussion. So the principle is that these are charitable associations recognized by the local authorities.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic111x.u30	Mr Minister, the answer to a written question of 20 March 2013 showed that 19 French-speaking and 11 Dutch-speaking staff in the Brussels-Capital Region were in charge of the higher functions of tax recipients in a bilingual office. 17 out of 19 and 9 out of 11, respectively, did not at that time have the proof of language skills required for appointment in these relations. Of the 30 recipients there are therefore 26 who do not fulfil the initial condition to be appointed. Meanwhile, that third tilting has taken place. All existing services were abolished and staff were assigned a new place of employment and service within the new structures. I come to my specific questions, Minister. What is the result of tilting 3 at the bilingual reception offices in the Brussels-Capital Region in terms of compliance with language legislation? How many officials with the required language certification applied to fill in the functions of the recipient at a bilingual reception office in the Brussels-Capital Region? In the Brussels-Capital Region after tilting 3, are tax recipients still employed ad interimly in a bilingual receiving office without having completed the required language examination? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic111x.u31	Ms Wouters, in the case of tilting 3, the staff of the FPS Finance Office were only given the option of choosing a place of employment, but not a specific service or function. In this context, they have already been informed of the place of employment for which they are designated. A decision in which service or position they will be employed at that place of employment shall not be taken until the coming weeks. The operationalisation of the external services of the General Administration of collection and recovery will only be implemented effectively on 1 July 2015. Further research is currently being carried out into how those involved can be distributed among the various services in order to ensure the best possible functioning of these services. A specific answer to the questions put cannot therefore be given at present. This will be the subject of further information as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic111x.u32	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. So I'm just a little early on with my question. I hope, however, that this bilingualism will be taken into account, knowing that at the time there was a judgment of the Brussels appeal court declaring certain prosecutions brought by a non-bilingual tax collector null and void. At the time, it was said to organise specific training courses for these staff. I therefore hope that this will be taken into account on 1 July 2015 when determining the specific distribution between place of employment, service and function. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic111x.u33	Identically the same question from two liberals.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic111x.u34	Two liberals from the periphery, Mr President.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic111x.u35	Indeed from Kraainem and Saint Genesius-Red.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic111x.u36	Mr President, Minister, taxpayers must enter an account number on their declaration form. Everyone knows that. If there is a new account number, it needs to be adjusted, both on Tax-on-web and on paper. However, the reimbursement for the 2013 tax year showed that the tax authority had computer problems, which led to difficulties in repaying taxpayers with a new account number. The tax authorities ask taxpayers who think they are in this case to verify that the account number is correctly marked on their tax bill. If this is not the case, they may request an adjustment to the date indicated on the bill to challenge the calculation. When that period is over, the FPS asks Finance to enter the correct account number via the MyMinfin website or to send a letter with the article number of the tax (on the back of the tax bill) and the correct account number, adding a copy of the identity card. Can you inform us about the cause of this computer problem? Has the problem of information technology been fully resolved, so that the attacks still to be carried out will be carried out correctly? How many taxpayers have already registered, with the account number being taken over by the FPS Finance? What is the total amount that was refunded on those wrong account numbers? When will the parties concerned receive their reimbursement? Will any negligence interest be taken into account? What measures will the FPS Finance take to avoid these mistakes in the future? What will happen to the payments that have been made on the wrong account numbers? In short, how did the FPS Finance address this problem? They've been working with these systems for a while now. We implemented it a few years ago. These aren't rookie mistakes anymore. The program's been running for a while anyway. The fact that we have problems with the installation of a new programme can be accepted, but that, after so many years, we suddenly encounter new problems seems to me to be very peculiar. That is why I ask you to provide more information.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic111x.u37	Mr President, Minister, I will not go back to Mr. Van Biesen. The press broadly echoes the difficulties faced by the administration in correctly making tax refunds to which a very large number of taxpayers are entitled, in the event that they have provided a new account number. It would appear that the new account numbers provided were not properly recorded and processed by the administration. Minister, how can this malfunction be explained? How long has it lasted? What programs are involved? How many taxpayers are affected this year, and if so, how many, if any, taxpayers per tax year? What measures have been implemented by your administration to remedy this situation and prevent its recurrence in the future? What are the technical problems that have created this situation? Can these technical problems affect other applications used by your services? Should targeted investments be made in IT at FPS Finance?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic111x.u38	Mijnheer Van Biesen, Mrs Wilmès, the problem that has just been raised concerns only part of the enrolments for the 2014 financial year. It occurred during natural person tax enrolments for fiscal year 2014 during the months of July to September. The cause of the problem lies in the fact that account numbers are currently being loaded through multiple channels in various computer applications, namely via Tax-on-web, MyMinfin or via the input from local reception offices. Technically, there were synchronization problems within these different databases. In the meantime, the problem of computer science has been solved. In order to provide a structural solution to this problem, the administration analyses the possibility of loading these bank account numbers into a unique and authentic application. In the long term, this procedure should resolve the difficulties currently encountered. In order to identify the number of taxpayers involved in the problem, a comparison of the bank account numbers charged in the various applications is being carried out by the FPS Finance Technical Teams. The administration shall make every effort to deposit the sums returned to the Treasury's accounts as soon as possible on the account numbers communicated by the persons concerned. In a communication on the website of the FPS Finance, taxpayers who have notified a change in their account number are requested to check whether the account number is on their tax refund note. The refunds concerned shall be processed within the legal period so that, except in exceptional cases, there is no legal basis for granting moratorium interests. The problem did not, in principle, give rise to payment on account numbers belonging to persons other than the taxable persons concerned, but at most on an account number previously communicated by the persons concerned and which has since been closed. The administration will therefore not have to contact persons to ask them to refund any amounts.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic111x.u39	Mr Minister, we urge people to submit their reports via computer equipment. Tax-on-web is actually a success story. We can now say that a large proportion of the declarations are made via Tax-on-Web or directly via MyMinfin. So that module works pretty well. It is, of course, a bit unfortunate that such mistakes can occur today. I understand from your reply that some package has not been included, namely the account number package that was changed via Tax-on-web or MyMinfin. That synchronization wasn't performed. As such, I am sorry to see that in 2015. I would like to make every effort to ensure that confidence in Tax-on-web and MyMinfin is not further damaged. Indeed, the electronic declaration seems to me to be the perfect module for all taxable persons to make their declarations in good time. To this end, the systems must be performant and work well in both directions. At a previous meeting, I had already asked you that it should be noted that taxpayers who have to get money back will get it back every time. If the account numbers are not found again, then in the long run we would not be able to exclude malice in such procedures. That is why I call for all hands on deck with your administration to ensure that such matters are not really possible in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic111x.u40	Minister, thank you for your explanation. Indeed, the reasons for the success of Tax-on-web are the practicality of the application but also the confidence of users in the system. You have taken the necessary options and measures to restore the system, so that the confidence that I believe is ultimately restored must be absolute in a system that deals with things that deeply and directly affect users.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic111x.u41	Mr. Chair, Mr.Minister, you are not responsible for what I am going to talk about, but there is a need to deal with problems when there are problems. Low-rate loans must be subject to an advantage in kind and therefore to the drawing up of a tax statement. Unfortunately, the deadline for drawing up the sheet is 28 February 2015 and this year the figures were published on 2 March in the Belgian Monitor, making it impossible for employers to draw up the sheets. Have there been any transitional measures in place to avoid the application of heavy fines for non-compliance with the fact sheets? Is the FPS Finance itself in order for the 281.10 slips to be drawn up?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic111x.u42	Mr Piedboeuf, employers who offer a cheap loan that can be considered an advantage of any kind may request an extension of the time limit for the introduction of tax slips from the Belcotax service. In such circumstances, a period of time shall always be granted and employers shall, on the initiative of that service, be kept informed of the new rates from the moment they are known and definitive, even before they are published in the Belgian Monitor. The Central Expenditure Service Administration Fixed Payment of the Treasury is responsible for the calculation and payment of the remuneration of federal agents. If a federal public service or a federal institution grants a "good deal" loan to one of its agents, it pays it itself and is required to issue the appropriate tax slip by its own means. This year, the Central Fixed Expenses Service sent the 2014 Revenue Tax Cards to Belcotax as of March 3, 2015, to identify the fairest and most actual amounts possible, thereby reducing the number of corrective slips sent in June of the current year. My services have become accustomed to taking into account the negative revisions made during the liquidations in January and February of the current year. This procedure leaves little time to carry out the various checks to ensure a correct shipment to Belcotax.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic111x.u43	Thank you, Minister. It is good that measures have been taken to extend the deadline. However, it is a bit of a pity that the employer itself has to make the request for a supplementary deadline, whereas a circular or general information would allow everyone to enter this with a supplementary deadline. Well, that's it... thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic111x.u44	Mr President, Minister, you know that on 9 June 2014, a large part of East Flanders was hit by a very fierce hailstorm. I questioned your colleague, the Minister for the Interior, about this in connection with the Rampen Fund, and he said that some twenty-one thousand claims files were submitted, but that the handling of the files has not yet begun. The reason for this is the lack of recognition of the hailstorm as a disaster. The government has decided that all remaining federal disaster files are the problem that this matter has been regionalized at one and the same Council of Ministers. Can you give me an update on the 11 federal disaster files that are still pending recognition? The reason why this dossier comes to you and why I am asking you is that the Finance Inspectorate should give the final opinion on the possible recognition. Are they done with the files? Which files have not yet been given advice? When do you expect full recognition?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic111x.u45	Mr President, Mrs Temmerman, the recognition procedure for the remaining eleven federal disaster files is the responsibility of the Minister for the Interior, as you yourself said. On 6 October 2014, the Finance Inspectorate issued a favourable opinion on nine of the eleven federal disaster files. There were files from 2012 and 2013, a backlog that was built up over the previous years. The compensation for these nine disasters is estimated at EUR 20 million, all together and rounded up. It concerns approximately, also completed, three thousand files. With regard to the two remaining disasters, including the hailstorm, the Treasury took over the dossier and asked for the advice of the Treasury Inspectorate. This is the same method as was used for the nine other files. This concerns twenty-one thousand already submitted damage files for the hailstorm and several hundred files for the disaster resulting from the abundant rainfall of 7 and 9 June 2014. Compensation for these disasters is currently estimated at more than EUR 25 million.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic111x.u46	Mr Minister, is there any positive opinion from the inspection on the hailstorm, or is that still under consideration?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic111x.u47	(...) I take that seriously.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic111x.u48	So it's still under consideration. Can you give me a timing for that?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic111x.u49	I can inform, but I don't have that information right now. Is that what you want?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic111x.u50	I'd love to, because that's what people care about, of course.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic111x.u51	We'll inform you about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic111x.u52	Thanks for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic111x.u53	Minister, the government approved a new banking tax on Friday 6 March. The scheme should be worth EUR 100 million this year. Of these, 75 million are paid by banks and insurance companies account for the remainder. That's what we read in the papers. Mr Minister, can you tell us exactly what this arrangement means? According to the first reports, banks and insurers will be able to make less use of the notional interest deduction. What is the exact basis of the application to calculate the reduced deduction? Why not opt for an increase in the financial stability contribution, as that contribution takes into account both the risks and the degree of debt? Is the levy calculated taking into account the risks of the bank and the insurer and the degree of debt? On what basis were the keys drawn up between banks and insurance undertakings? What is the estimate of the contribution to, on the one hand, the four large banks and, on the other hand, the other smaller savings banks?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic111x.u54	Mrs Temmerman, the starting point was to ask for an additional contribution from the banking sector as part of the first tax shift the government is making. Why should we increase prudential capital, which must be there anyway, because it is part of the rules? Hence the idea to work via the notional-intrest deduction. I will now be a little more technical to explain how the calculation goes and how we get to 100 million. As far as credit institutions are concerned, we will take an annual fixed percentage of the total debt to the client associated with the activity carried out by those credit institutions, including the debt to the client associated with the foreign branches of the credit institutions. Indeed, that parameter is considered to reflect reasonably the relative importance of the credit institution in its market. In human terms, it means taking the extended deposit base instead of the private deposit base. That is an important extension of the calculation basis. As far as insurance undertakings are concerned, it was chosen to take an annual fixed percentage of the total technical provisions, i.e. the reservations made by the insurance companies, because that parameter is also considered to provide an objective, reasonable representation of the relative importance of each of the insurance companies on the market. Following on from my basic comment, of course, is the question to which the fee will apply. Since some financial institutions still have transferable past losses, so they do not make use of the notional interest deduction, the problem arose that the original intention, namely to work through the notional interest deduction, would have caused major distortions between the institutions. That is why we have begun to include other subtractions in the calculation. In the end, we have come to the proposal adopted in the meantime, which initially reduces the transferable losses and then the transferred FDI deduction, after which, if necessary, even makes the accounts so to speak, the notional interest deduction. As a result of the restrictions, financial institutions and insurance companies will pay more corporate tax than if they had not had to receive the deduction. In particular, it was designed not to give additional prudential capital, which must be maintained by the stricter capital rules, an additional advantage. This is the reason why the notional interest deduction, and per derivative through other deductions, has been used and not through financial stability contributions or other contributions. For the key between the two sectors, we took the consolidated balance sheet total from the end of 2013. According to the National Bank's data, this amounted to EUR 960.6 billion for the Belgian banking sector and EUR 270.8 billion for insurance companies. If these two are linked together, the 75/25 rule has been put on paper. Finally, for the estimation of the banking sector, I would like to make an additional distinction, namely between the four large banks and the rest of the banks. We can also distinguish between the savings banks, which we will easily call the smaller banks, and the branches of foreign banks. You understand that I cannot give individual data, but two thirds of the total contribution of 75 billion comes from large banks and one third is almost fifty-fifty distributed among smaller banks or savings banks, on the one hand, and the branches of foreign banks, on the other.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic111x.u55	Has the text been submitted to the Council of State or when can we expect it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic111x.u56	The text has now been sent to the Council of State because there is a disagreement between lawyers on the method of calculating the percentages laid down. According to some, the government can repeat that, once it's been established, at KB. According to other lawyers, that's impossible.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic111x.u57	So a draft would be submitted in the Chamber, or could it simply be submitted by royal decree?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic111x.u58	I'm not so familiar with these procedures yet, but I think there's a draft coming to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic111x.u59	Since the Council of State has a month to decide, this would be discussed in the Chamber in April.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic111x.u60	Anyway, the banking tax must have a legal basis. If it is only about a change in percentages, it can be done at KB.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic111x.u61	Apparently not. In the event that it has to be laid down by law, we will try to include it in the programme law for budgetary control.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic111x.u62	That'll be June.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic111x.u63	This is about fixing the percentages. These basic data vary, of course, from year to year. In order to achieve this EUR 100 million, that percentage will also have to change. So that actually means recalculating. One leaves at EUR 100 million, and according to the data from that year one starts to calculate again upwards.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic111x.u64	So there will be no separate draft law, but the text will be incorporated into the programme law, which we will have to deal with together with budgetary control, if I understand correctly.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic111x.u65	That's the idea.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic111x.u66	Then we'll talk about June?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic111x.u67	Budgetary control will take place in the second half of April. I do not have to tell you that it will then be at the beginning of June before a draft budget can be dealt with here. The programme law will also be added to this.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic111x.u68	Unless the Council of State would still say that the percentages per KB could be set. Then it can be quick.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic111x.u69	I understood something like that. And what happens to the cayman tax?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic111x.u70	The caiman tax has already been in the IKW and comes tomorrow in a second IKW. So it's progressing.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic111x.u71	We wait in suspense, don't we, Mrs. Temmerman?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic111x.u72	That's right.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic111x.u73	You'll approve of that caiman tax, won't you?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic111x.u74	We'll see about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic111x.u75	(...) A centrally coordinated control action would have been rolled out by the FPS Finance regarding paid alimony payments that are tax deducted. Taxpayers should also provide relatively small amounts of evidence, including the money that parents have given to their children to finance, for example, school activities. Can you confirm, Minister, that a centrally organised control operation was launched? Were there any taxpayers selected for that check? If so, on what basis did that selection take place?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic111x.u76	Mr President, Mr Valvelthoven, allow me to reply briefly to your brief question. The administration has confirmed to me with certainty that there has not been or is not being launched a centralised control action on alimony payments. However, it is always possible that, in the light of management work, a file may be subject to a punctual verification in which the supporting documents relating to maintenance benefits are requested. At present, however, there is certainly no question of a centralised control action.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic111x.u77	Mr Minister, I had heard echoes, but apparently individual files were checked at the same time.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic111x.u78	Minister, this question is a little more detailed because I would like to go into the matter in greater depth. The cell asset at the FPS Finance now organises for the third time a control action. Following a risk analysis based on data mining, 194 companies would have been selected. As has already been said, it is the third time that the tax authorities have organised such a large control action in multinational companies based on data mining. The previous government has made a strong commitment to this. It is certainly good news that you are continuing that way of working, which was introduced under the previous government, and that it will not be abolished. In 2013, 228 multinationals were examined. At that time, the tax authorities concluded that these companies had wrongly not paid taxes on a profit of 106 million euros. In 2014, it even amounted to 143 million euros of profit on which taxes were wrongly not paid. At that time, the tax authorities controlled 272 multinationals, 156 of which were closed. The control of transfer pricing is the final piece of an effective approach to artificial profit shifting by multinationals. During the previous legislature, the cell debt instrument was strengthened and legislative initiatives were also taken to dive the extensive tax planning of multinational corporations, often via tax havens....................................................................................................................................................................................................................... For example, the general abuse clause was introduced to deal with transactions with purely fiscal motives. There was also the so-called safety net clause, which helps to avoid double non-taxation of foreign income. In our view, these measures have not missed their impact. Income from corporation tax has also increased sharply. However, we believe that further measures are needed. This government states that it wants to tackle a massive profit shift by multinationals. In our view, therefore, it is rather contradictory that the coalition agreement only contains measures that reverse the fight against these practices. I have noted that the government wants to reduce the safety net clause and the general abuse clause. On previous occasions, we have already said to the Secretary of State for Combating Tax Fraud that it would be good to abandon these plans. We suggest that you take four other measures. The first is the documentation obligation, which already exists in many countries today. This obliges companies to underpin and document their transfer pricing policies. This obligation does not exist today in a number of countries, such as Belgium. We believe that such an obligation is nevertheless important in order to be able to effectively and efficiently control transfer pricing. The documentation not only serves the control itself, but can also be used in advance, ex ante, to feed the risk analysis, so that one can check even more specifically. A second initiative that we are suggesting is to extend the investigation and the assessment period for the correction of discounted prices to ten years. Today, the limited investigation, seizure and limitation periods of three years are often an important obstacle for the administration. These are extensive, complex and multilateral controls which may take several years. Checks are on average 18 months. Then we'll be halfway through the three-year term. In the context of multilateral controls, the question of co-operation from foreign administrations also does not rarely relate to tax years outside the investigation period of the Income Tax Code. In other words, extending these deadlines would help our administration. Thirdly, in our country there are no specific penalties for transfer pricing. In the case of an agreement between the administration and the taxpayer, no penalty shall in practice be imposed. Of course one has to pay taxes. We believe that a minimum tax increase of 10% should be the norm. Fourth, the reinforcement of the cell transfer pricing. The results of this cell are excellent, especially since the occupation is relatively limited. In the previous legislature, the cell was strengthened. I think it would be a good idea to strengthen them. This cell deserves more than it earns back. How do you reconcile the government's plans to reduce the safety net clause and the general anti-abuse clause with the ambition to tackle the massive profit shifting by multinationals? Can you take a position on your own or the government's behalf on the four initiatives I have just outlined?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic111x.u79	Mr President, Mr Vanvelthoven, the intention is to revise the safety net provision in order to limit its operation to the cases for which it was initially intended, while the anti-abuse clause would be changed to provide greater legal certainty for the taxpayer. Both measures need to be further discussed within the government and cannot yet be explained. In the framework of the OECD/G20 BEPS Project, the famous Base Erosion and Profit Shifting, recommendations have already been published on the introduction of documentation obligations in transfer pricing transfer pricing. Implementation of these recommendations should lead to more efficient transfer pricing controls and increased legal certainty. As this is a measure of transparency, the Government supports the introduction of a transfer pricing documentation obligation, provided that this is done in a proportionate manner and with clear rules on the burden of proof. In this respect, we await the results of a benchmark and feasibility study, the implementation of which is foreseen in the 2015 operational plan of the General Administration of Taxation. According to the OECD Guidelines, transfer pricing is not an exact science and there is a range of prices that must be market-oriented in English rather than "arm's length price range' rather than a correct market price. This seems pretty logical to me. Therefore, most transfer pricing disputes arise from a different appreciation of the facts and the transfer pricing methodology applied. This is therefore not to be regarded as fiscal fraud. The automatic application of the seven-year deadline for tax fraud therefore does not seem appropriate in this case. The proposals you make ignore the special deadlines already in existence under Article 358 WIB, which may in many cases be invoked to apply an effective five-year assessment period. I come to the evolution of the occupation of the cell debt in Brussels. In 2012, there were 10.5 full-time equivalents for 11 staff. In 2013, these were 11.4 full-time equivalents for 16 staff. In 2014, there were still 16 staff members, but 14.5 full-time equivalents. It is intended that the transfer pricing cell in Brussels, which forms part of the large enterprise pillar, will be more and better manned and thus expanded in the future. Initially, efforts will be made to increase the number of full-time equivalents through internal mobility. The project provides for new staff to receive specialized training, given the nature of the subject they will have to deal with. In addition, it is important to mention that certain persons in the centres have received training and are thus able to assist in a number of transfer pricing actions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic111x.u80	Mr President, Minister, I am still waiting to see what this will mean. For the time being, I shall refer to it as a restriction on the safety net provision and the anti-abuse provision. For the documentation obligation, you have referred to the benchmark study that is under way in the general administration. Is there any timing to that? Do you have eyes on that?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic111x.u81	I'll inform you about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic111x.u82	For reasons of absence, we have to delete the following questions: No. 2781 by Mr Maingain, Nos 2834 and 2841 by Mr Gilkinet and No 2870 by Mr Vercamer. Debates of the European Parliament 2898 by Mr Van Biesen has been converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic111x.u83	Minister, we have been able to follow up on this in the press over the last few days.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic111x.u84	You approved that, too.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic111x.u85	No, we did not approve it, I will explain in a moment what we did and what we did not approve.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic111x.u86	The N-VA didn't approve it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic111x.u87	Yes, you do. Flanders is the first region to have completed the housing bonus. In the Flemish Region, the housing bonus still entitles to a tax reduction of EUR 912, or 40% of the paid capital repayments and interest up to EUR 2 280. This amount shall consist of a basic amount of EUR 1 520, with an increase of EUR 760 during the first 10 years of the term, as long as the property is the sole residence of the borrower. If the borrower still borrows for the purchase of a second home, then he is no longer entitled to the housing bonus, which seems logical to me, but still gives a tax advantage, because capital repayments give the right to a tax reduction for long-term savings. The second residence, the word itself, is not, in principle, the principal residence of the borrower and, as a result of the sixth state reform, which we approved for the sake of clarity, the Regions are not competent to do so. The federal government, in other words, grants the tax advantage. This benefit amounts to 30% of the capital repayments up to a maximum of 2 260 euros, or 678 euros per person per year. This is less than the benefit of the Flemish housing bonus, but in addition to this reduction, the interests are tax deductible and that deduction will soon yield more than 1 000 euros. In this way, the federal tax advantage for a second home can be significantly higher than the Flemish advantage for a first home. Mr Minister, are you aware, but I have read it in the newspaper in the meantime, that there is an important discrepancy between the tax advantages in the area of housing credits and the fact that young families who acquire their only and own homes enjoy less tax advantages than those who invest in income property next to their own house? Are you prepared to take steps to remedy this unfair situation in our view by taking initiatives yourself or by talking to the Flemish Government?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic111x.u88	Minister, we have both approved them, both in the region and at the federal level!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic111x.u89	We ensure the continuity of the state.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic111x.u90	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic111x.u91	It's always CD&V's fault. "It's raining," said my brother, "it's CD&V's fault." When the sun shines, however, we are never there. Mrs. Smaers, let the sun shine.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic111x.u92	But I do now, because I'm sitting here with the sunlight on my documents and in my face. Minister, I believe that the situation is very clear and has been described several times this week in the press and brought to public attention. Apparently, a number of fiscalists consider that the tax treatment of the second and subsequent housing, which is still a federal competence after the sixth state reform, enjoys a more favourable tax regime than the deduction for the sole home, which has become a regional competence after the sixth state reform. It is true that Flanders has meanwhile used its fiscal autonomy. Making use of fiscal autonomy seems obvious to me to give an integral form to its own policy, especially in the area of housing. Various powers of residence were already in place at Flemish level and now the fiscal powers surrounding housing policy have been added to that. If Flanders thinks that this course should be set, then that is a right choice in the context of the fiscal autonomy that Flanders has. Flanders has made a decision, but we have always had the vision and the approach to favour the first and only house of our own seriously with regard to other houses, because the first and only house is the family home. In the context of affordable housing policy, the tax advantage of the single home is a very relevant approach. Now that a region has made use of its tax autonomy in this area, we find that the federal scheme for a second and subsequent home is less favourable. That is why I believe there are reasons to review the rules at the federal level, where the levers are for the second and next home. It seems to me now a good time to raise this matter, since the tax shift and other dossiers will be discussed in the coming months. The present dossier can be taken into account in the discussions on fairer taxation. Minister, I read this week that your President is also talking about fair taxation. In order to achieve more equitable taxation, adjustments should therefore be made to this dossier. Mr Minister, I have the following questions. Firstly, do you also consider that the difference between the housing bonus and the deduction for the second stay should be addressed? If so, what measures will you provide for to remedy this? Will you consult with the Flemish Government on this? Secondly, do you think there is an injustice between people who want to buy a first home and landlords who rent out multiple properties? If yes, do you intend to include this problem in the announced tax shift and in what way? Finally, what is your current timing for the tax shift proposals?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic111x.u93	Mr Vanvelthoven, Mrs Smaers, first of all I would like to point out that, after what was published in the press two days ago, I immediately asked the Federal Finance Office about the state of affairs. If you wish, I will present those figures when they are more or less complete, but apparently it is very complex and depends on the specific situation or whether the reasoning put forward is correct or not. There are many situations where what is quoted does not seem to be correct. So, once again, taxation is a complex matter. There are, however, a number of situations in which the case may arise effectively. As a result of the sixth state reform, from the 2015 tax year onwards, the Regions have exclusive competence to grant tax reductions and tax credits for expenditure on acquiring or maintaining their own home, the so-called housing bonus. After the entry into force of the sixth state reform, the baskets and tax reductions vary by region for loans to be contracted from 1 January 2015. The maximum basket is now 2 360 euros in Flanders, is not indexed and the benefit is a fixed percentage of 40%. In Wallonia, the basket is EUR 3 130, it is indexed and the benefit is fixed at 40%. In Brussels, the basket is also EUR 3 130, it is also indexed and the benefit is 45%. The decision of two of the three Regions to reduce the benefit of the housing bonus for loans contracted from 1 January 2015 is a decision that fits within their competences. These measures are not contrary to federal loyalty and do not give rise to disloyal tax competition. You will probably not be surprised that I fully respect the autonomy of the Regions. For homes that do not meet the conditions of the housing bonus, mostly this is the second house, the basket at federal level is limited to 2 260 euros and the advantage is uniform 30 %. In addition, the regional benefits are first charged in the basket. Next comes the federal advantage. This ensures that when a taxpayer has two homes and a loan for each property, the advantage for the second home is usually nil, because the basket has been used for the first home. I note that the advantage of the regional work bonus is in principle even greater than the advantage that can currently be granted as a federal tax reduction for long-term savings. In addition to the federal tax reduction for long-term savings for capital repayments and premiums from debt balance insurance, there is also the interest deduction. The rule whereby interest payments may be deducted from real estate income has been in place for several decades. Until the introduction of the housing bonus in 2005, the interests were also deducted from the taxable income of the home. With the introduction of the housing bonus, the deduction of interest for the home was removed and included in the global basket and the exemption from the income of the home was introduced. If the advantage is also charged to the general rule that interest on real estate loans may be deductible from the real estate income, this may indeed give a greater advantage over the housing bonus. This is not due to the state reform, but to the introduction of the housing bonus in 2005. I would like to mention that the sixth state reform did not remedy the difference that already exists either. It is therefore a problem with a certain history. The federal tax benefits will undoubtedly be considered further within the federal government. The two questioners have made a good assessment of this, and certainly Mrs Smaers. This will be discussed further in the context of the forthcoming discussions on budgetary control and tax shift, but in that order.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic111x.u94	I also saw yesterday in the Flemish Parliament that there is a broad consensus there that this situation feels unfair. In any case, this is not in line with the intentions of the legislator here and at Flemish level. I do not want to turn it into a political game, but the tax regulations of 2005 to which you refer were indeed adopted here. The sixth state reform was indeed approved here. However, the imbalance is due to the fact that the housing bonus in Flanders has been reduced in this way. Again, I do not want to make this a political game. It might have been good, but tax regulations are not always easy, if the same parties who concluded the Flemish government agreement at the beginning of the summer and agreed to cut the housing bonus had had the reflex to monitor that imbalance in the discussion of the federal government agreement. I believe that the message from all the groups is that this needs to be addressed. This will take some time, given its complexity, but we look forward to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic111x.u95	Minister, I understand that this dossier will be included in the next few weeks. We look forward to the decision that will be taken.
