ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic285x.u1	Good morning to everyone, my colleague, Philippe Goffin, and I co-chair this Joint Committee on Justice and Home Affairs, to which we are pleased to invite Minister Geens and Minister Jambon. I am speaking here under the control of those who were at the Conference of Presidents. It would appear that it was agreed at this Conference that the many questions should be posed by theme. We would therefore like to propose that they be grouped into different themes. Following the answers to the questions, an exchange of views will take place with the Minister and those who are present but have not tabled a question. The themes we have chosen are as follows. There is the theme of foreign fighters to which the strictly police problem is attached. There is the theme of radicalism, whether in prisons or in public enterprises. These are the two big subjects. There is the topic of judicial investigations, that of threat management at levels 3 and 4, and more specific topics: weapons, religious, counter-speech and finally the problem of municipalities, and more specifically that of Molenbeek. Do we agree to operate in this way? [[Sentiment]] Since the agenda is very full, Philippe Goffin and I would like to urge you to reduce the time of expression to the maximum by being as concise as possible, so as to be able to deal with everything in so far as, as you know, the so-called internal "normal" and justice committees are held as a result of this joint committee, which must also be pursued and finalised. The message is therefore above all a message of brevity. I repeat that at the end of the questions asked, an exchange of views can take place on the comments, which would complement the answers given by our two ministers. With your agreement and without any particular remarks on your part, I propose to start with the topic of foreign fighters. I have before me a list of the questions which are taken up thematically and I give the floor to Mr Olivier Maingain.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic285x.u2	Mr President, Ministers, I come back to the circular of 21 August 2015 issued jointly by the Ministers of the Interior and Justice on the exchange of information and follow-up of foreign terrorist fighters from Belgium. It is both the deputy and the mayor who speaks because there are obligations that weigh on the mayors in this circular which, when we have seen it, sometimes leaves somewhat circumspect – and it is an euphemism – as to how to follow it up. I will not recall that this circular is intended, in particular, to draw up a personalized fact sheet containing information from the police, the Sûreté, the intelligence services, but also from local non-police services, which includes, in particular, CPAS personnel or communal agents. This information must include an individual assessment of the threat that each foreign terrorist fighter represents. The municipal authorities are therefore involved in the detection and information of foreign terrorist fighters, but also in the subsequent enrichment of information through, for example, a neighbourhood investigation carried out by the local police and administrative measures taken (radiation of population registers, non-issuance of identity documents and so on). The local task force is also responsible for taking the initiative in the context of the personalized follow-up of terrorist fighters, except, says the circular, a legitimate motive, a concept that has just been clarified and on which I will return. A previous circular dated 25 September 2014 required the communal services to collect this information, but it was more precise as to the nature of the missions and it allowed the communal services to remain within the scope of their mission. It is known, for example, that social workers and other professions bound by professional secrecy have an ethical reserve to collaborate in the collection of information. I have often heard that the mayor must be the confessor and must receive information from his collaborators and services. He himself had to form an opinion on the follow-up to be given to information received and possibly give it to the police. This made the mayor the intermediary between his local services and the police services, and more particularly with the police officer in his area who is responsible for liaising with other security services. This obviously places the mayor in a difficult situation, since it must be assessed on the basis of criteria which are not defined in the circular. I've already been asked to receive information. I must assess whether I serve only a mailbox or whether I believe that the information provided to me is such as to justify the transmission to the police services. By the way, as soon as you do this, the police services ask you for more information and want to know your source of information. It's the good work of any police department. But in principle, at that time, you have to say, "The person who gave me the information is hiding behind his professional secrecy." You will tell me that, under certain circumstances, professional secrecy can be lifted. Yes, as long as there is the beginning of the commission of a criminal offence. In this case, in fact, one can lift professional secrecy. But all this is a matter of the mayor's assessment. Admit that it is not necessarily the authority best placed to appreciate. I come back to the legitimate reason that the local task force should not take the initiative of personal follow-up of terrorist fighters. I've read the circular all over again. I did not find the criteria for assessing this legitimate motive. To understand, I'm looking to see what would be the case. I also have a problem with possible people returning from the combat zones but who are not registered in the Belgian communal registers. In principle, they do not fall within the scope of your circular. However, their reporting can sometimes be communicated to the police. Perhaps some zonal police services have been informed, without people being included in a list communicated to the mayor. The situation of these particular cases should be examined. I would also like to ensure that these new tasks entrusted to local municipalities and police areas will be taken into account in their funding. It should not be forgotten that the funding of the zonal policies has been subject to a fairly sharp decrease in recent years, in particular by 2% of the basic allocation. Finally, since time is running out, a government decision has taken place since I introduced my question. Ten municipalities benefit from a budget, which is ultimately modest – one million euros – but this is not the most important expenditure in your budget – so that they can better prevent the rise of radicalism. I do not dispute the fact that you have chosen these ten municipalities or cities, perhaps the most affected. But is it envisaged to extend this to the benefit of other municipalities? If so, on the basis of what criteria? Can we therefore hope that this rather modest budget allocation will be increased to meet new needs? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic285x.u3	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to welcome the opportunity to put our questions in the context of the debate in the temporary committee which has been set up. Indeed, these issues are directly related to the broad theme that we are trying to address. I would like to draw attention here to the fact that I tabled my question, more than a month ago, in other words, before the attacks that formed the basis of our meeting. All this to say that if these questions are important, the answers to them will be even more so, with the aim of moving our work forward. My question also concerns the circular, concerning the approach of foreign terrorist fighters, on the exchange of information and monitoring of foreign terror fighters from Belgium, issued on 21 August. This issue is topical, as some seem, according to The New York Times, to blame themselves for the lack of surveillance of the jihadists. The debate on the question of political responsibility in the follow-up of radicalised people is a debate that everyone wants, but there is still a need for clarity at the legal level. That is why I would like to ask you about the above circular, which the Minister of Justice himself described as non-binding when he answered a question on 28 October. Mr. Minister of the Interior, could you answer the following questions. First, with regard to the legal basis of the circular, section 62 of the Integrated Police Act sets out a limited list of missions of federal interest that may be subject to binding directives from the Minister of the Interior or the Minister of Justice. In doing so, are the exchange of information and monitoring of foreign terrorist fighters covered by these missions? If so, why did you draw up a circular and not a binding directive? Otherwise, what about the authorization of the Ministers of the Interior and Justice to organise such information gathering and follow-up? I'd like to be a little more specific. In this case, how are the tasks divided between the local and federal levels? How are the functional responsibilities between the mayor and the federal level organised? All Belgian mayors are attentive to the answer that you would like to give us. As regards the composition of the Local Integrated Security Cell (CSIL) which the mayors must create to ensure the exchange of information, according to the terms of the circular, the social services and preventive services are part of this commission. There is also talk of non-police local services. However, it is an infinite field for those who know cities and municipalities – a CPAS, the organizing power of even a private school, a sports club, an ASBL, a library, etc. Can you clarify this point? How can a mayor be considered, on the basis of the circular, to be entitled to give general and specific information about individuals to non-police services? In return, how can a mayor be considered, on the basis of the circular, to be entitled to compel non-police services to provide general and specific information about such persons? At the moment, I would like to point out that all police officers do not have access to this information. Some have access and others do not. Here, it is a question of opening up this information to an indefinite, if not infinite, field of people. In concrete terms, does a mayor have the right to disseminate the list of foreign terrorist fighters within the CSIL? Are all the consequences, including legal consequences, of this decision well under control? Furthermore, we know that for certain types of services, professional secrecy is a legal obligation. Trust and sincerity are cardinal values of effectiveness of action on the ground. As far as I understand, since the circular has no normative content, could it be invoked as a legislative authority allowing the communication of data covered by professional secrecy? So what is the line to take if a service refuses to collaborate? Does a mayor have a power of restraint? If so, under what regulatory provision? You will understand, ladies and gentlemen, that it is necessary to be careful in this matter, because social workers – as well as any person authorized to deal with information about suspected offences, in this case the police and intelligence services – may face penalties for breach of professional secrecy. As I understand it, this is not a question of challenging the document itself, but I think it is important to clarify things so that this circular can be applied. I will conclude with an even more precise question. What about the personal, criminal and civil responsibility of the mayors in relation to these recommendations? Perhaps they will not go far enough and, then, they will be considered as insufficiently diligent and prudent mayors. Perhaps they will go too far and, in this case, they will be accused of violating privacy regulations.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic285x.u4	Ministers, my first question concerns the respective role of the local and federal police. Following the recent events, we have seen that the former fulfils a crucial mission in gathering the information necessary for the analysis of the OCAM. In the narrative of the investigation that followed the Parisian tragedy, we learned that many suspects – Salah Abdeslam, his brother Brahim and Bilal Hadfi, who was one of the suicide bombers of the Stade de France – were known to OCAM and were on a consolidated list of eight hundred names of people who drew the authorities' attention by their ties to the fighters in Syria. In addition, the Abdeslam brothers were also known to the Molenbeek authorities, since they had either occupied social housing or worked for the municipality. So we can imagine that they were also known to the local police. Has the local police received specific instructions regarding the lists that have been given? It is known that several mayors spoke in the press saying that they had received lists of names and that the instructions were not always clear. Did they have permission to do something because some say they couldn't do anything? What were the specific instructions for these lists sent to local authorities? Have relations with other police and surveillance services worked optimally? Can some conclusions already be drawn following the ongoing investigations? The second question relates to the follow-up of listed individuals. I was talking about Abdelhamid Abaaoud, who died during the intervention of the French police in Seine-Saint-Denis, and Salah Abdeslam. The press has denounced many round trips, in any case by Abdelhamid Abaaoud, between Europe and Syria. The question is whether the Belgian intelligence services were aware of these repeated trips. If so, was it specifically monitored? Why was he never arrested on these many trips? Could the exchange of information with the services of other countries and between Belgian services have worked better or improved?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic285x.u5	Mr President, at the outset my question was about Molenbeek, but it is much broader. I come back to a question that I asked the Prime Minister last week in plenary and to which he did not answer. The New York Times taught us a few days ago about the existence of lists of people who are linked to the jihadist chain. These people either left and returned, or are still in Syria, or intend to leave for Syria. This is how this list was presented in the media. I think some of us have already mentioned the existence of this through the media or in Parliament. These lists were therefore known and had long been claimed by the mayors, who had obtained them as early as June. This is at least what the mayor of Molenbeek recently reported. Obviously, she is not the only one who received this list. There would be, it is said today, 800 names. So this is one of my first questions: how many people are on these lists today? What exactly are these lists? Why have they been established? They were given to the mayors. As I understand it, the instruction given to the mayors was, above all, not to deal with these cases. They had information that such persons in their territory were dangerous, but had been instructed to leave it to the federal security and intelligence services to monitor and deal with the threat they posed. They were on these lists because they were clearly a threat. The Minister of the Interior visited Molenbeek on 17 September to discuss the treatment of radicalism. At that time, the services of the municipality of Molenbeek and himself had these lists. I would have liked to know whether the working meeting in Molenbeek dealt specifically with these issues, and what the division of labour was at that meeting. According to my information, there has been very little discussion of this list and of how this threat should be addressed, both by local authorities and by the federal authorities, but I would like more clarification on this. I also learn from our colleague Hans Bonte that he has received such a list concerning his commune. But he adds that he had information that was not communicated to the mayors of the Brussels Region, that is, the level of danger. Are these individuals a very significant or less significant threat? This information seems essential to me and was on his list. Is that correct? What were the levels of threat and how were they defined? A discrepancy in the levels of information seems to have taken place between the Brussels mayors – at least those I contacted, and I contacted a number of them – and the mayor of Vilvorde. I would like to know why this mayor had essential information not available to the Brussels mayors. Of course, we know that some of the perpetrators of the attacks in Paris were on those lists. So they weren't people who were off the radar screens. These people had been spotted, it was known that they existed. We knew their threat and background. For some individuals, it was known that they lived well at home, at their usual place of residence. The Abdeslams left their usual residence. Their brother and neighbour testified. They weren't at the bottom of a cellar somewhere where they weren't spotted. How could these people identified on clearly threatening lists organize themselves in a band that brought together at least ten individuals, not to mention logistical support, acquire weapons, ammunition, detonators, etc. without this being perceived by the intelligence and security services, without being able to identify them and without their preparations for attacks being thwarted? This is, of course, the essential question I wish to ask you today, Ministers. Had this information been shared with other external services, including French services? Is this list also distributed to Interpol? Is this information disseminated to certain foreign security services that can help us or have already helped us, such as Moroccan services?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic285x.u6	Mr President, the advantage of clustering questions by theme is not to repeat each other. I'll be very brief. It is true that at the very beginning, when we were warned of the bloody attacks in Paris and of the responsibilities of each other, the Minister of the Interior was heard quite quickly saying that it was necessary to ‘clean up' Molenbeek, a formula that shocked many of them. In this context, and Molenbeek is obviously a case of school, but we could also talk about other municipalities, so the Minister of the Interior says that Molenbeek needs to be cleaned. It seems, however, that the barbarians who committed the attacks were on a list which he transmitted to the mayor of Molenbeek. Is that the case? If so, was there an agreement between the mayor and the Minister of the Interior to allow the departments of the Ministry of the Interior to deal with the threat posed by the presence of these persons on the list? If that is the case, what organization has been set up to supervise these individuals? What services monitored them? In what way? And what is the minister's analysis of what happened? How did these people pass through the meshes of the net? It's important to have specific questions on the side. I know that a parallel investigation will be conducted. But it is important to have the point of view of the Minister of the Interior, as for example on what happened in Brussels City where one of the terrorists had been reported to have returned to Syria. It is the same on the question of the link between a mayor and the Ministry of the Interior: which service oversees? What is the assessment of the surveillance problem that has produced the bloody events that are known?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic285x.u7	You have done the right thing to group up the themes. In fact, I think that you have done very well to put forward the local level as the first item: what has happened to the directive and what is the role of the local level in the fight against radicalism and in the protection against potential terrorism? That is indeed the crucial link in securing our society. This is also reflected in recent discussions and in the discussions in January following the announcement by the government on the directive which defines what local government should do with radicalised individuals, which we have had in this joint committee. Measure No 6 out of 12 at the time was reviewing existing directives to define more precisely what mayors and local authorities should do, which resulted in the foreign-terrorist fighters directive of 21 August last. We have already had the debate on the directive and the expectations and role of local authorities in tackling radicalism and protecting society against radical elements on a number of occasions, ladies and gentlemen, also in this committee. The political question that is circulating here on the left and right is the following: could we have prevented the Paris attacks from being prepared for a great deal in Molenbeek and Brussels? I do not know, but I do feel very strongly that the chances of them being organized from our country would have been a lot less than that, as the debate has shown, if the directive had been correctly applied everywhere. I'm declaring myself. Before asking my questions, I would like to explain some crucial elements of the Foreign-Terrorist Fighters Directive of 21 August, which was limited in distribution, but has been sent to all the mayors, police chiefs and all the security authorities in our country. Firstly, the ambition of the directive is no more or less than that the succession of persons who have been radicalised is visible and entertaining at the local level. I welcomed this from the opposition when the minister in Parliament drew attention to it. The directive makes it very clear that local follow-up, including on information flow, should be carried out in cooperation with local authorities, with local authorities. Another paragraph of the Directive makes it even clearer. I quote: "To give full effect to this letter, there is a need for a local municipal consultation platform, a local integrated security cell, LIVC, where the exchange of information takes place between the social and prevention services, the local task force and the administrative authorities. The debrief says: "The mayor must take the initiative to do so." He must therefore set up such a LIVC in order to obtain all the information in this way. For example, work can also be done in a good way on the visible and clinging follow-up of persons who are portrayed as radicalized. I could explain the directive further, but I will not do so. I simply remind my fellow Members that we have had the debate here effectively, as well as outside. I have repeatedly pointed out to the Minister that little is happening in our country in terms of security. If a number of cities do their homework well, like perhaps Mechelen, Antwerp and what I am trying to do in my city, it is of little benefit to us in terms of safety if we do not see it happening everywhere. That's exactly what I've been trying to bring to your attention, including over the past few days. Mr Dallemagne, for the sake of clarity, the extra information I receive is not coming because I am a Fleming. I am telling you, that is not because I am the mayor of a Flemish city that is for a long time between Brussels and Schaerbeek, but because we have set up a LIVC in my city where the information is due and where something is happening with that information. That is why, according to you, we may know better than others, I am not sure what the threat levels are, also because we are addressing the competent authority, the OCAD. Mr President, I have also submitted my questions in writing. Firstly, to what extent have the municipalities been sensitised about the role they should play as local authorities in the framework of the directive? For example, I did receive instructions from my governor. I've also looked at the dispatch letter, just like the Chief Constable. The issue was discussed at length in the police college with us, as well as at the level of the city administration. My question to the federal government is: what initiatives has the federal level taken to sensitise local authorities after the publication of the circular? A second question specifically concerns the Brussels-Capital Region, also a little bit because I am shocked by statements made by my colleague in The New York Times. How many of the 19 Brussels municipalities have at present set up a local integrated security cell, to which mayors were encouraged by means of the circular letter? There are 19 municipalities and I would have liked to know which municipalities in the Brussels-Capital Region have set up a LIVC and when this would have happened. A third element is effective threat analysis per person. Any mayor who has to deal with the problem will undoubtedly have been given lists or access to them, possibly through the police force. Minister, how many individual threat analyses have taken place on the total list of persons keeping the OCAD? What about the delay? A final element is the flow of information, which is so crucial. I have to testify here that efficient flow of information is particularly difficult between, for example, my police zone and the adjacent one. Sometimes information isn't even passed on. In any case, it has been announced that information would flow in a more dynamic way and less statically, which brings with it additional risk derivatives. What is the precise state of play in this respect? Will dynamic information flow effectively start on 1 January with the dynamic database? For what reason can this dynamic database, which almost all security services are begging for, only start on 1 January? So far, my questions about the first chapter.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic285x.u8	Mr President, my question is related to this problem but concerns the BELFI project. This more technical question could be the subject of a written question, but I was informed that no written question was possible in the discussion.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic285x.u9	This is not possible when the matter is joined.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic285x.u10	Mr President, I would like to take advantage of the fact that I can elaborate on my oral question and comment on what I have heard about the Molenbeek problem, as it is highlighted. I would like to make some clarifications by recalling that, like other mayors, I have received the list of names transmitted in confidence by the chief of corps of the Brussels-West police zone with regard to Molenbeek-Saint-Jean. Following the communication of these lists, a weekly police meeting is held for prevention with the Chief Legal Officer of the communal administration. They come together to discuss issues such as radicalism. A number of decisions have been taken by myself as an administrative authority. This is the de-registration of the population of all persons suspected of having gone to Syria. The local police were responsible for conducting an investigation. Of the 85 names, 41 have been deleted. I would also point out that these lists include suspected or suspected persons. These are not lists of people we have evidence for. Secondly, within the limits of its powers, the local police also conducted hearings. Information has been provided at the federal level. As you know, the local police are not competent for judicial cases handled by the federal police. Surveys have been conducted on activities related to some of the listed individuals. We have put in place awareness-raising and training sessions for front-line services such as teachers and educators. Finally, our "radicalism" official, who was engaged a little over a year ago, in October, like other municipalities, set up awareness-raising and training sessions, followed up families who were confronted with this problem and avoided likely departures. These are the clarifications that I wanted to make in relation to the issues that were raised. For the rest, I will elaborate on my question concerning the BELFI project. The BELFI project was launched in 2014 by the Federal Judicial Police in Brussels, under the coordination of the Attorney General's Office and the Auditorate General, in close collaboration with the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office, the four labour auditors, FAMIFIED, ONEM and the Social Inspectorate. The aim of this project is to identify the social frauds of persons who are parties to join the ranks of the Islamic State in Syria. To be carried out this project needs good collaboration between all the actors. A few months ago, however, the problem of the collaboration of the public centres for social action (CPAS) in the project was raised because some of them did not wish to provide information to the investigators, escaping behind professional secrecy. Minister, my questions are as follows. Can you give us the results of the BELFI project you have at your disposal? How many people who have gone to Syria and received an allowance, whether they have income from social integration or other allowances, have they been identified? How much is the total amount of indus is currently estimated? Have any amounts already been recovered? Is there a procedure for this purpose? What about the collaboration of CPAS? The BELFI project was launched in the territory of the Brussels Region. What about the other two regions of the country, which also have a number of departures to Syria? Are similar projects under way or planned?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic285x.u11	Mr President, I would like to put my questions to the Minister of the Interior, Mr Jambon, for the most part. Minister, I would like to start from your statements, from the observations that you have had the opportunity, since the attacks in Paris, to share with us. You said very quickly, very quickly, what our leader, Laurette Onkelinx, said, "we had to clean up the municipality of Molenbeek". In this regard, I would like to understand your comments and what measures you would like to put in place in this commune. I take this opportunity to recall that the issue of terrorism and radicalism is an international and federal one. Local responsibility is certainly not to be overlooked, but first and foremost, this is an international and national issue, since terrorism today affects several cities, several capitals and several countries around the world. However, in your communication, Mr Minister, carefully seined, you gave more than the feeling that only the municipality of Molenbeek was targeted and that the previous and present mayors would be responsible for the cradle of terrorism. It is particularly inappropriate for a municipality, with its population, to be systematically stigmatized. On the other hand, I learn from the press that when you take a step in the fight against radicalism at the local level, you do not forget the communes of Flanders, the cities of Flanders. Antwerp will receive resources as well as Malines, Maaseik and Vilvorde. Walloon side: Verviers, Liège. And in Brussels, next to Molenbeek, Schaerbeek, Brussels City and Anderlecht are mentioned. There is a bit of indecency to cast reproach on a single entity or on a single Region which, as we know, does not have the primary responsibility to fight terrorism or radicalism. This responsibility, Minister of the Interior, Minister of Justice, is first of all your responsibility in this government. On the basis of the above, I would like to ask you about your policies since the beginning of the legislature. As a first step, your government has taken steps to reduce security, prevention and justice budgets. Today, given the exceptional circumstances, the government has announced new ways to combat terrorism and radicalism. We would like to know the details of the measures you are going to take to address the shortcomings of our federal and local services. You announced last year the creation of a reserve of EUR 100 million dedicated to security policies. How was this amount used? How much has it been used to finance local police needs or projects? Which ones in particular? We know that in the event of an attack, we do not have a federal police reserve. Will you ensure, in the event of an attack or a serious incident, a sufficient federal police reserve with at least 300 police officers? The question of the federal allocation, also taken up by my colleague Olivier Maingain, constitutes an important volume of the budgets of the communal areas. It was reduced in 2015. Will this staffing be reviewed this year? For many years, local authorities have been calling for the revision of the KUL standard, which sets out the distribution of amounts between the different zones. Do you intend to review this standard in order to give the municipalities the means to carry out their police and community missions? Will you also respond favourably to the requests of the mayors of the Brussels Region and police areas regarding their protocol? I am thinking in particular of the equipment and equipment they need to be able to operate. You have announced a measure in favour of municipalities that have a radicalist coordinator. I am sure you know that all the municipalities are working in the field of radicalism. It is not because we do not have a radicalist coordinator, that we do not work on it. My municipality, Saint-Josse, is working on this as part of a prevention policy. Are you going to invest more in prevention policies that, as you know, remain the first way to anticipate problems of social exclusion, delinquency or, in a number of cases, acts of radicalism? I join my colleague Françoise Schepmans in asking about the follow-up that you and the Minister of Justice intend to carry out on those listed as potentially terrorist.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic285x.u12	Mr Ducrame, who has been appointed to the Defence Committee, will not ask his questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic285x.u13	Mr President, Ministers, I would like to draw your attention to the situation in rural areas. Brussels, two weeks ago, was on level 4 alert. Any person following the news had raw access to this information. As a mayor of a small town, I received calls from parents who were worried about whether the school was opening. When it came to closing schools, some did not understand that it was only on the Brussels Region. Still it is that we are everywhere in level 3, level of alert that, for police areas throughout the country, really involves a lot of constraints. Let us consider a commune as mine with six neighbourhood agents: they must wear bulletproof vests, go out by two, while a policeman must also be able to stay in each police station. Neighbourhood work has become very difficult for 15 days. If you add to that, as in my police zone, a border area of forty kilometres with France, you imagine the number of men that had to be mobilized. At the same time, we were asked by Brussels to send reinforcements. I therefore wondered whether you were also aware of the situation of the rural communes in managing this crisis. Are you also aware of the need to strengthen controls at the French border? For the past two weeks, on a daily basis, on the highway, there have been between five and ten kilometres ahead of the French border. If there were more men to carry out the checks, they would be faster. In the fight against radicalism, you are announcing additional means. You have spoken of ten major urban centres more specifically affected, but radicalism can develop in all the communes of the country. I would like to pay attention to that. I think that we should not limit only to the urban centres the effort you are going to make to combat radicalism. Smaller municipalities also present risks. Are you considering specific aids for the smallest police areas? Finally, to get on with my colleague Emir Kir's question, I would not understand that you would not increase the allocations to the police areas in the next federal budget.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic285x.u14	Mr President, we are trying to understand the way we work. The way of working has changed about seven times over the past 12 hours, but I will try to answer the questions as best I can. I must honestly say that I am not yet able to answer some of the questions that have been and or have been put. I will be able to answer most of the questions and, as you are used to me, I will do so in quite detail. The reasons why a number of questions cannot be answered are obvious. Part of it is because the answer is part of the ongoing judicial investigation. You will agree with me that we must not jeopardize that investigation. I cannot answer any other questions, about the procedures followed, the proper use of resources and staff and so on, because the evaluation and analysis of these are still to be carried out by the various police control bodies. The actions are therefore still in full swing. I will not provide you with specific information on the threat levels of buildings, sites or persons and the related measures to ensure the safety of the staff of the institutions as much as possible. I am committed to keeping up with the questions that cannot be answered now and to delivering them to the chairman of the committee as soon as I have the answers. Either we do a session, or I can deliver the answers in writing. I leave it to the wisdom of the committee members to judge. I will try to deal with the questions thematically. Let's start with the Foreign Terrorism Fighters circular. In accordance with the Government Agreement, the Foreign Terrorism Fighters Circular regulates the management of information relating to this type of terrorist, the cooperation between the services and the various authorities and the modalities of follow-up. In other words, it is addressed to all partners in the security chain and not only to integrated police missions. The Ministers of Justice and the Interior responsible for the collection of information and monitoring of foreign terrorism fighters (FTFs), a joint ministerial circular on terrorism, was the appropriate instrument for settling the relations between each of the services. The aim of this circular is to create a climate of constructive cooperation among all actors. It therefore encourages the mayors to create a Local Integrated Security Cell (CSIL) – Mr Bonte has already referred to it – in which local authorities, police, social services and prevention services will refine the personalized follow-up of FTFs who have returned. However, this is not an obligation, but my colleague Koen Geens and I are convinced of its necessity. In our view, CSIL must be a forum for coordination, discussion and exchange of information, but neither the circular nor the creation of this unit is intended to oblige social services to transmit information. The exchange of information will take place in accordance with the missions and legal framework of each of the actors. The composition of this unit can be very varied, with various partners responsible for prevention. It will be up to the mayors to judge. As an administrative police authority, the mayor will receive the information he needs to carry out his mission effectively. A standardised information sheet will be drawn up for each FTF for administrative authorities. These documents will serve as a basis for discussion within the CSIL and for meeting the need for knowledge. There is therefore no question of providing lists. The information will allow not only the mayors, but also the prevention services to benefit from a broader view of the situation of the FTFs, so that they can ensure the best possible follow-up. The purpose is to provide sufficient information so that each department and agency can contribute as part of the normal job description. You then ask me to define the concept of a legitimate motive that would allow local authorities to avoid the follow-up of FTFs in their territory. This concept is not used in the circular. However, they are offered the option of avoiding follow-up. However, in some cases, it is possible to avoid the visible and continuous follow-up that is the norm. This possibility exists when the analysis of the OCAM threat reveals a danger to the personal security of the persons in charge of the follow-up, but also when the judicial or intelligence authorities consider that their operational research would be jeopardized. The fact that a person is entered in the communal registers does not in itself constitute a criterion for initiating follow-up. Once the presence of a potential FTF has been established - thanks to information from the family or the circle of friends, for example, or to information on the ground collected by the security services - and the confirmation by the OCAM that this person is indeed a foreign fighter, the follow-up is initiated as described in the circular. The circular concerns foreign fighters from Belgium. Other foreign fighters who have no direct connection with our country are monitored by the regular operation of the services that often collect information about these people from international information exchanges between security services. What about the resources relating to the projects covered by the prevention and safety contracts? The Royal Decree of 7 November 2013 on the Strategic Security and Prevention Plan provides that 35,074,835 euros are granted annually, an amount distributed among the 109 cities and municipalities included in the said Decree. These cities and municipalities themselves determine the phenomena to be treated according to the indications that emerge from their local safety diagnosis. Those means should be added to those defined by the Royal Decree of 20 October 2015, i.e. EUR 15 498 000. In this case, the 29 cities included in the decree may choose to allocate the means thus granted either to their police area, as a contribution to the operation, or to the fight against crime, nuisance and feeling of insecurity. Of this amount, €600,000 is allocated to the 10 pilot cities as part of the prevention of radicalism. To be completely complete, we must add the resources allocated to Brussels municipalities within the framework of the European summits. There are 55 million euros planned and distributed between the Brussels police areas and the Brussels municipalities by the Brussels-Capital Region. Mr. Bonte, you had questions about the local security cells. The cities and municipalities were indeed informed of the question of the creation of a LIVC via the circular of August 2015. According to the circular letter, the cities and municipalities had to look for a concrete implementation of the instrument, which constitutes the LIVC. The implementation should be based on the opportunities and needs of each city or municipality. If the creation of a LIVC would lead to uncertainty, a clarification can be requested within the National Task Force of the Plan R "Radialisation'. I would like to review the situation with regard to the LIVCs for the nineteen Brussels municipalities. In the city of Brussels, the LIVC is composed and operated. In Elsene and Sint-Lambrechts-Woluwe implementation is under way. Implementation is ongoing in Sint-Pieters-Woluwe and Etterbeek. In Saint-Gilles the LIVC is composed and working. There's nothing in Vorst yet. In Anderlecht the LIVC is composed and working. In Schaerbeek the cell is assembled and ready to be started. In Evere the cell is assembled and ready to start. In Saint-Joost-ten-Node there is nothing yet. In Oudergem the LIVC is composed and working. In Watermaal-Bosvoorde there is nothing yet. In Uccle the LIVC is composed and working. In Sint-Jans-Molenbeek the LIVC is composed and works. That cell is one for Sint-Jans-Molenbeek, Ganshoren and Jette together. What concrete measures can police agencies take with regard to radicalized individuals? The approach of the radicalised individuals and, more importantly, of radicalizing vectors, is not only a task of the police but of different services of the federal and federated levels in the government. In the framework of plan R they work together to get a good picture of radicalisation. Once again, in consultation, they take action within their powers to address the problem or propose measures. In addition, synergies are being developed with civil society, which plays a crucial role in preventing radicalisation, including through the local integrated security cells, which are now being established on land all over the country. The measures that the partners in Plan R can take can be roughly divided into three categories: firstly, measures to obtain information in order to identify radicalisation early and monitor the phenomenon; secondly, measures to prevent the vulnerability to radicalisation of persons; thirdly, measures to disrupt the vectors of radicalisation. The police have few concrete and practical possibilities in this area. Radicalisation is not a crime, which puts the police's possible action in the context of the administrative police. In this context, the ability of police forces to obtain information and take action is rather limited. In the light of events, we must at least consider the police's ability to obtain information in order to avert threats to public security and order. Aware of the need to share local practices, the Radicalism Unit of the Directorate-General for Security and Prevention within the Internal FPS regularly organizes coordination meetings with the municipalities which have included the Radicalism phenomenon in their strategic plan and/or those which receive the specific subsidy already mentioned. These coordination meetings are essential for sharing practices at the local level. In an effort to further strengthen local initiatives, through the Royal Policy Decree, we have set aside a budget of one million for these ten municipalities so that they can take new initiatives in the context of the prevention of radicalisation. The allocation of the amount has been made taking into account a number of parameters, namely the number of foreign fighters who have returned, expertise and existing good practices, as well as the context of the large city and the geographical context. This royal decree, published on 23 November of this year, provides for the exchange of locally established practices and recalls the importance of the supralocal. The aim is to support initiatives with a supra-local impact and to design initiatives that could be shared with other municipalities, whether or not they have a strategic plan. A new budget of 425,000 euros is allocated according to the decision of the Council of Ministers of 27 November last, among five other municipalities: Charleroi, Courtrai, Genk, Menen and Saint-Gilles. The objectives of this initiative are the same as for the first Royal Political Act. For these fifteen municipalities, coordination meetings will be held every four months to discuss progress. Delivrables will be provided at the end of the year. They will be able to meet the will of the other municipalities to benefit from this expertise. With regard to the additional information on the three authors identified, they were known to the police and intelligence services and had been reported. The current files and the files processed tell us that foreign fighters do not use their phones very much, but rather prefer other communication channels whose message cannot be legally intercepted by the police and the justice system. These people often use false documents or forged documents to travel, or they use similar passports. Additional resources have been identified for the issue of radicalization and terrorism. I can reply that the government from the EUR 200 million envelope allocated the following amounts to the federal police in 2015 to strengthen itself in the field of terrorism and cybercrime: EUR 27 million, of which EUR 12 million to pay for the orders of Defence; EUR 4 million to finance the additional cost of the threat level 3; EUR 10 691 000 to fund additional staff for the special units, the FGP debt holders, the terrorist and cyber services, which are 250 FTE debt holders; EUR 2 million to improve the overall functioning of the judicial column. In addition, an incentive fund is also provided for municipalities and cities where this problem is high, with a million euros for ten previously selected cities and 450 000 euros as a second boost for five additional cities. Some of these financial resources still need to be converted into actions before they can be seen in the field. Between the time when a recruitment decision is taken and the time when we see these recruitments on the ground, there is time. EUR 400 million will be added for 2016. I now turn to the lists of combatants and the number of people on them. The figures I'm going to give you are from October 29, 2015. Five categories are distinguished. The first group includes individuals alleged to be in Syria or Iraq. There are 273, of which 80 are believed to have died in combat and 193 are present in Syria or Iraq. Category 2 consists of persons alleged to be en route and has 13 names. Category 3 includes persons who are presumed to be present in Belgium after a stay in Iraq or Syria. It has 134 names. Category 4 refers to failed attempts and comprises 65 people. Finally, category 5 includes potential candidates, number 352. Foreign fighters are reported even at the SIS and Interpol levels and information is shared with Europol and Interpol. Information concerning all persons on this list shall be exchanged at the various levels, Schengen Information System, Europol and Interpol. A few months ago, Belgium and three other countries were the only ones providing information to Europol. Things have improved because fortunately there has been European pressure on this, but things were not self-evident. OCAM itself has data on persons who have participated in foreign conflicts in a context of terrorism or extremism. In this context, Belgian residents were mostly attracted by jihadist groups present in Syria and Iraq. According to the latest available figures, the total number of individuals was some 420, 134 of whom had since returned to Belgium, 80 died during fighting in Syria or Iraq. It is estimated that around 193 Belgian residents are currently present in jihadist groups in Syria or Iraq, and 13 are on their way. In addition, three Belgians were convicted for participating in Al-Shabaab's activities in Somalia. They stayed there during the period 2011-2013. A Belgian would fight alongside the pro-Russian rebels in Ukraine. Most Syrian combatants have Belgian nationality (76 per cent), followed by Russian nationals (7.5 per cent), Moroccans (6.5 per cent), French (3 per cent) and Algerians (2 per cent). In 2012 and 2013, about twelve people a month tried to leave in Syria in a jihadist context. This figure remained almost constant in 2014. There is a decrease in 2015: 6 to 8 people per month. It is still too early to provide the final figures for 2015 since much information comes to us at a later stage and this can still influence the figures. With regard to persons returning to the country, since April 2015, some 20 individuals have returned to Belgium, an average of 3-4 per month. Most of them are subject to judicial review and follow-up by the police and intelligence services. Agreements are also concluded at local level in the context of psychosocial support, training, employment assistance, etc. As has already been explained, the new circular on the monitoring of foreign fighters provides for a systematic follow-up of all persons returning to Belgium, accompanied by a range of measures, both in terms of security and at the socio-preventive level. Local authorities also have an important role to play. Mrs Schepmans, your question about BELFI falls within the competence of Mr Geens. He'll answer you later. Mrs Onkelinx, with regard to your questions about Molenbeek, this is the list of persons of interest in the fight against foreign fighters. So this is not just about the turnarounds. For Molenbeek-Saint-Jean, this list includes 85 names. The list shall be transmitted to the mayor in a confidential envelope by the head of the corps. The list is transmitted to each release of a new list, i.e. after discussion in local task force with all partners. The lists are transmitted to the mayor, in accordance with the ministerial circulars on this subject, in order to develop anti-radicalism prevention policies. OCAM is responsible for updating the list. This update is made during the local task forces on the basis of information received from all police and intelligence agencies that coordinate within the framework of these local task forces. The list included two names of persons related to the attacks in Paris. According to the information available, these people are known for their intention to travel to Syria without having succeeded. The last question I have to answer is Mr Bonte's question on the dynamic database. By the end of the year, all the information that has so far been sent through lists and which methods have been circulated will be put into a database. The development of the database is not so simple, because it is intended that the database can be completed in real time by persons and services mandated to do so, a bit like the OSR system in case of disaster exercises. It will not be possible to consult the database alone, but the people who are authorised to do so will be able to supplement additional information in the database. This makes its development a little more difficult than simply including a list in a database. That is why it will not be ready until the end of the year. We thought, however, that it was better to develop a good system than to do something quickly just to say that we have a database, without it actually being one. Mr President, I think I have answered the questions for which I could provide answers. I am aware that some questions are still open and I undertake to provide the answers in the form that the committee wishes as soon as the necessary information is available.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic285x.u15	Thank you, Minister. You have done a difficult exercise of compiling answers. We were saying at the moment that the compilation exercise of our clerks was not simple either to reclassify all the questions by theme in order to allow them to be asked by following these themes. A brief reply had been provided, but with your agreement, I would first like to pass the floor to Mrs De Wit, who had a question and was retained in another committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic285x.u16	Mr President, Ministers, I am sorry, I was indeed prevented from attending another committee. I will ask a very simple question, Minister. There has been a great deal to be done in recent days on the announcements on electronic surveillance. We use different systems today. Once again, it is said that it is administrative, then that it is part of a judicial procedure, then that it is a form of judicial control. My question is very simple: what will it be now? If it were administrative, it was already said that the mayor would have to do it. We know this isn't happening today. I would just like a short and simple answer to next question. If we want to impose electronic supervision on people who are already registered with the threat analysis services, how can we see that? Who will impose this and what control can be exercised on it? I hope that the misunderstandings and different interpretations will finally be over.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic285x.u17	This question was not addressed to me, I assume, Mrs De Wit, and apparently not to Mr Jambon either. So, the government responds. I have nothing else to say about this than what I have already said. Following his statement in Parliament last week, the Prime Minister made it quite clear that whatever form he will take, the measure of electronic anklet must always be taken in contradiction and always be accompanied by probatory measures. This means that prevention in this context is, if possible, even more important than repression. You are asking for clarity, Mrs De Wit, I will be clear. You know that the anklet is currently being used in our criminal law as a means of carrying out provisional detention. It is also used as a technique of execution, usually over time and usually also for prison sentences of less than three years. As of 1 May 2016, our legislation will allow the electronic anklet to be imposed as an autonomous punishment. In that perspective, he easily links himself to the punishment of the autonomous probation, which will also be entrusted to the Communities on 1 May 2016. To the extent that one would provide for the anklet and autonomous probation as autonomous punishments for certain possible acts of terrorism preparatory to terrorism, which would require an extension of the incriminating acts of the accusations currently being made in our Criminal Code, ample consultation with the Communities, i.e. with Mr Vandeurzen and Mr Madrane, will have to take place. To the extent that one would like to ban the use of the anklet as punishment for convicted Syrian fighters, it is clear that such a measure should be registered. I've been doing that for under three years. This means that, for punishments under three years of age for terrorism, that can simply go to a departure to Syria, to fight there, because we have defined this crime in a broad sense that can no longer take place as an anklet. I changed the circular to that effect. At the moment, the government has not defined exactly how criminal law will be used in further preventive action against Syrian fighters and those with radical views, who could resort to terrorist weapons. It has also been suggested to make such an administrative measure where appropriate. That's out of my jurisdiction. I will not say much about it. However, that idea has been suggested. I heard that from Mr Dewael during a debate with Mr Bonte. In this case it is a precautionary measure, such as the withdrawal of the identity card, which will also have to be framed with the necessary measures of contradiction and prevention. Mrs De Wit, the government is still considering this point. We will certainly come back to you as soon as we have the most clear answers you want.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic285x.u18	Mr President, I felt that I was asking general questions. They did not relate to a particular case that could be covered by a court file. I did not feel that I had specific answers to simple questions asked for more than a month. Minister, with regard to my question on the division of labour between the local and the federal government, particularly in the follow-up of those on the lists, I would ask you for a general indication. How do we do it? This is important both for the outcome and for the responsibilities. The answers are not clear. With regard to CSIL, you are telling us that all these provisions are indicative. You list the communes that own them. What about, in this context, the responsibilities of the mayor if he decides, for example, not to hold it when the character is indicative? On the other hand, what about professional secrecy? You haven't fully answered the question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic285x.u19	Mr. President, let's be clear. All of us are looking for the best way to be effective. However, the shade areas remain important. We have all read the circular carefully. In any case, all those who assume responsibilities have done so. I would like to be very specific and concrete to go to the heart of the problem. What do the mayors know about the people whose names and addresses they have received? In some cases, I am thinking in particular of the category to which the person belongs, in relation to the five categories referred to in Title III of the circular. The mayors, except to exchange confidentiality and discretion with the zone chiefs, have in principle not received any other information regarding the danger and severity of the threat posed by either person. There is no indication, certainly not in writing. The individual card drawn up by the OCAM, transmitted to the local force, is the sole assessment of the police and security forces. In principle, the mayors do not have to know about this information. In some cases, under the seal of confidentiality, the heads of bodies may explain a little more. Everyone has the same question: independently and even prior to the implementation of the circular, what measures do you have to take and, yourself, what measures do you know to take? I hear from your answer that a new fact sheet will be sent. Perhaps it will allow us a better evaluation. In any case, not a mayor in this country knew more about the people whose names were passed on. We only receive names and addresses. Which is also logical; I am not an investigator. I have asked several of my colleagues in Brussels: we have received nothing else, perhaps also because the methodology is not the same in all the municipalities and regions of the country. The Minister of the Interior should no doubt specify the extent to which the information can be communicated. That is what we are asking for: a unified methodology. I am ready to participate in a coordination meeting. I am not trying anyone here, I am simply asking for a coordinated and identical methodology for all the communes in the country.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic285x.u20	The layouts of the current cards are produced by the OCAM and are therefore the same throughout the country. The exchange of information took place in local task forces. All the support services of the OCAM but also of the communes, the social and preventive services are represented. I announced that before the end of the year, we will have a computer database in which the local task forces and the people concerned will find the last minute information. Qualified individuals will also be able to add information in real time. This, in my view, is an improvement in the situation because it is true that, for the time being, only lists that are already out of date when they reach their recipients are received. The work is in the finalisation phase. We will be able to provide it before the end of the year. From then on, the local task forces and authorized people...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic285x.u21	Will the mayors have access to this detailed information?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic285x.u22	Yes, but you know that there's a difference when you give information to people who have security clearances and when you spread it to others. I personally support the fact that the mayors concerned can have this security clearance. We need to go through this legalization stage before we can give access to this information. It is therefore possible that at present the mayor may not receive this information.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic285x.u23	I thank you for this clarification because it is a major development. Except in special cases where mayors were better informed than others, no Brussels mayor has systematically received the individual sheet for each of the persons included in the lists received. We didn't know. We could eventually interview our respective corps chief to determine if he knew a little more. However, the head of the corps could take refuge behind his ethical obligations by stating that the information available was not the control of the mayor's administrative police authority but only of his relationship with the judicial authority and thus concluded that he had nothing to communicate to the mayor. It depends on the nature of the relationship we have with the police officers. Basically, this information was beyond the control of the mayors; it is very important in terms of responsibility for what happened. I keep thinking about another problem that is not solved. The CSIL, which is a meeting place between police and administrative, social and other services, is a place where it is not easy to exchange because the law enforcement agencies are, rightly given the number of participants, very reserved to communicate certain information. What can they say? What can they not say? Who will receive information that is little or no confidential? Conversely, administrative and other services are very afraid of sometimes transmitting information, especially for fear of being identified as the source of information and fear of reprisals. We mustn't hide it. When you question, for example, school management and ask them to provide useful information, their first reaction is to ask how they are personally protected? It's a confidentiality procedure. The police, who collect the information, will not normally give the source, but the duties of investigation sometimes ensure that the police return to the source to verify information. Trust can be broken at that time because you still burned the source of information. It's not easy. It must be recognized that there is no methodology in the circular to address such sensitive situations. I think it would be good, and I end with that, Minister, since now experience has been gained in all police areas with all the services, that a meeting be held with the mayors to assess these difficulties and to give objectives to be achieved with certain methodologies. I think it would be good if, at the turn of the new year, such a meeting were held. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic285x.u24	Minister, thank you for the answers. You said that not all the answers are given today and that as the information and reports available to you, you will keep the parliament informed. Thank you very much for that. Nevertheless, I would like to return to the question of the lack of resources. In general, you have referred to the budget included in the budget of the Interior. You recalled the security contracts, the additional allocations, the summits for Brussels. You have not yet responded to the measures you are going to take. Minister, what is your point of view? Will you defend in the government the possibility of setting up a general reserve of federal police officers for Brussels? Are you going to make the endowments of police areas and communes a priority, and ensure that the cities in this country receive what they deserve? You know that KUL standards are not applied in the big cities of our country. This poses a problem for us at the level of the municipal budgets, but above all at the level of the local police services which we have to organise. With regard to prevention, you have taken a first step, which you have made known, in the ten cities and municipalities. Others here have relayed it with me: do you plan to give more support to all the municipalities that do prevention? I would remind you that the prevention of radicalism is also about dealing with petty crime, it is about ensuring that there is no social exclusion. I would like to know whether you wish to reinject resources at the level of prevention policy. Finally, to top these three requests, I would like to know if you can give us a timetable for future decisions within the government, so that we can come back in time. So, my colleagues and I will not ask you again in a week. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic285x.u25	Mr. Minister of the Interior, thank you for the information you have given. They are useful, detailed in various areas and valuable to our understanding of what is happening, the threat that continues to evolve. You did not, however, answer the main question of what was a problem. Indeed, a mechanism has gradually been put in place. You are giving us the current situation, but I do not know, for example, whether there already existed, and since when, in a municipality such as Molenbeek. The existing system did not allow the terrorists to stop their hands before they struck. Yet, one of them is considered, it seems, as the chief logistician of the attacks in Paris. It has been circulating throughout Europe. He was seen in Hungary, Greece, Italy and he was able to develop all these movements without being spotted. This central issue remains outstanding at this stage. Through the proposals you are currently making, there has been a serious deficit in the transmission and processing of information. There has been a failure in this area. It is apparently related to a question of methodology, which is why you are submitting new proposals. I do believe that it is essential for mayors and local actors in general to have access to certain information so that tasks and competences are better distributed between local and federal levels. Obviously, today we refer to the ball between the two levels. This is a serious problem for the future. I say this all the more because, according to the figures you quote, 486 foreign figures on the lists are in Belgium, of the 836 recorded, 134 of which are returns. Therefore, have any mechanisms been put in place for these people to ensure that they no longer pose a threat to the population, whether in Belgium or elsewhere in Europe? That seems essential to me. It is the central question that must concern us. Are these people now receiving special treatment that did not previously exist? I hear that languages have been loose since the Paris bombings. The mayors are looking for information. We give them some information. Villagers suddenly get information about what's happening in the territory. It is high time to develop a methodology, tools, resources, in order to operate information systems, processing systems, and the allocation of skills in an appropriate way.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic285x.u26	Mr. Chairman, Minister, you have partly answered my questions. In particular, you have declared that there is a list of 85 names for the municipality of Molenbeek. This is an important figure even if, as we know, the municipality is not the one whose list is the longest. You also stated that two names of persons known to have intended to travel to Syria are on this list. You added that follow-up is always ensured, whether at the socio-preventive level or at the security level, as part of the application of the circular and collaboration between all services, whether at the federal or local level. As far as the local level is concerned, you said that the list had been drawn up by the OCAM, that the mayor who does not have the security clearance did not have the said list, but that this could change. You added that a socio-preventive system was in place at the local level, without knowing the nature of the threat of the people on that list. At the federal level, security monitoring is being carried out in collaboration with the police and security services. It is precisely on this point that you did not provide an answer. What kind of security follow-up is in place, especially for the two people you mentioned whose barbaric acts have bloody Paris? Was there a failure or not? I asked you how the terrorists could have passed through the meshes of the net. I did not get an answer to these questions. However, these answers are extremely important not only in view of what has happened, but also for the future. This list includes other persons in Belgian communes. I would be delighted if you would provide answers to these questions. If this is not the case, we will not fail to ask those questions at the meeting of the Monitoring Committee of the P and R Committees which are responsible for investigating what happened around 13 November. But it is with insistence that I ask you for answers today.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic285x.u27	Thank you, Minister, for your precise answers. Without pointing the finger at anyone, I repeat that it is a painful finding that two people on the list handed over to the mayor in Molenbeek have played an active role in the attacks in Paris. Again, I do not want to hold the local level or my Molenbeek colleague responsible for this. But it is particularly painful in the light of the ambition of the directive. The aim of this directive is to keep a close eye on everyone on that list. This means that the ambition of the directive has failed in this respect for any reason. It's not for me to investigate. I would like to say a few words about the returners, Mr Dallemagne. What also strikes me is that there is at least great confusion about the role of the mayor, at local level, of the OCAD and the flow of information and also about what exactly should be in that information. There too I notice a lot of confusion with the interpleans. You have said quite explicitly that it is your wish and that of the Minister of Justice that the letter be sent and that the LIVC be set up. You cannot force that, but you are very much in favour of it. As far as the LIVCs set up in Brussels are concerned, I believe that there is still too much to be set up rather than already operational. There too, it is better to look forward than backwards. There are a few that haven't done anything yet and there are a few that are being set up. I hope that this will be done more quickly and that the remit will also become clearer, because it seems to remain unclear for a number of actors. As far as the information requested is concerned, I have not known in my career any policy area where one always refers with the greatest ease to another and where it is always the other's responsibility, as in security policy. The vast majority of the information on which the OCAD bases itself and with which I also try to pursue an integrated security and follow-up policy in my city comes from the local level. That's pretty obvious. Just saying that the OCAD doesn't inform us enough is, I think, far too short. Minister, you have seen with me that there are still LIVCs in the capital. Ladies and gentlemen, it is because I like to see the capital that I am so concerned about it. It is also the capital of my region, and the capital very close to my city. At the very least, we must also note that there appears to be little cooperation between the different LIVC debt holders. The following is perhaps even more worrying, and I am explicitly addressing Mr Dallemagne who is concerned about what is happening to the more than a hundred returners. These should also be followed by the LIVCs at local level. Now, every once in a while, I have to say that there is free movement for those who have returned and that the following and visible follow-up is therefore not being carried out. That makes me particularly cruel, not out of vanity but out of concern for safety. This also applies in the opposite direction, so when information is passed on. Let us be clear: dynamic information databases are crucial, but potential terrorists and radicalised people are very mobile. If information is passed on, then it should be so that the person who receives the information will follow it explicitly. I am sorry to say that this is not the case, and I would like to say this again, without pointing the finger. In particular, I would like to call for measures to be taken at federal level to ensure that the following, visible follow-up and its translation into the LIVCs, which should also lead to administrative measures, are carried out throughout the territory. I do not want to open the debate here, but as far as I am concerned, this can only be done in an efficient way if one looks at it head-on in a single police area and even in a single administrative area. I believe that this is one of the conclusions that we must draw from this tragedy, and I am thinking not only of Paris, but also of previous attacks in which there has always been a link to our capital city. That should be one of the obvious conclusions from our series of embarrassing experiences over the past few months.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic285x.u28	Minister, I would like to return to specific points. With respect to Foreign Terrorism Fighters, you have provided explanations. But when I hear my fellow mayors, it is true that at least there is still some confusion. Not everything has been clear and the way things are done is not the same for everyone. We may wish to suggest an evaluation of the circular. You've already proposed improvements. Let's evaluate it to refine and improve it because it gives the impression that it was a little confused. Foreign fighters who have moved between several borders, between Syria and several European countries use legally undetectable means of communication. They travel with fake passports. At the communications level, I think this is going to evolve, as announced by the government. We are talking about people identified and targeted. There must be other explanations – their journey is to say the least surprising – for people registered and known to Belgian and foreign services. As far as the list you have detailed is concerned, as some colleges have said, 134 returns. At this level, it will be interesting to have a concrete action plan in relation to the division of labour among local task forces. For these registered persons, therefore known, an improvement in follow-up must also be considered. You mentioned 352 potential candidates at the start. When do you become a potential candidate? What is being done to mentor these people? You said there is no obligation to transfer information to social services. Are these individuals identified at risk for a possible start oriented towards social services? In concrete terms, what is being put in place?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic285x.u29	Mr President, I would like to point out that it is not the problem of the Molenbeek device that is involved in these dramatic events. This could have happened somewhere else. Nor is it the organisation of the police zones of the Brussels-Capital Region. I hear reasoning that I find relatively short in relation to the problem. As far as the dynamic database is concerned, I am pleased to hear that it will be activated by the end of the year, with a possibility of information for the mayors. As has been said, until now the mayors have received a name, an address, a date of birth, and it is on the basis of these names that forty radiations have been carried out. We will certainly come back to that, but the question is how we can organize this arrangement, knowing that some municipalities are more affected than others by violent radicalism.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic285x.u30	I have a very brief answer. As far as a number of specific questions are concerned, I will give you the answers as soon as I have the necessary elements. As far as succession is concerned, there is indeed an investigation under way by Committee P and also internally with the police. As soon as I get the results, I'll let you know. As far as the budgets are concerned, the budget has been submitted. We have now opened a new item of EUR 400 million. However, I am not going to say what my intentions are, I will tell you afterwards what the distribution has become. It is usually more important in politics to share results than to share intentions, to make it possible to achieve results.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic285x.u31	We will move on to the second part. However, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that we have just spent almost one hour 45 minutes on a dozen questions, while our Parliamentary Rules provide for oral questions to be dealt with – question and answer – in five minutes. Because of the exchange of views, it takes a little longer but we still have a lot of questions to deal with. I would therefore like to remind everyone of the effort of brevity requested in this joint committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic285x.u32	Minister, I would like to ask you about your decision to place radicalized prisoners in a wing of Ittre Prison. On what basis is your decision based on the choice of this prison? What steps will be taken to prevent such detainees from having contact with other detainees? Will this decision involve the replacement or transfer of staff in order to strengthen the current prison team?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic285x.u33	My question relates to the action plan announced on March 11 against radicalization in prisons. In the light of recent events, it seemed interesting to me to take stock of this. Has the Extremism Unit within the Directorate-General of Prisons, which is responsible for conducting a thorough analysis to recommend action, submitted its report? What are the main lines of action? The State Security has created a section on radicalization in prison. You are announcing for the fourth quarter, a presentation of the results of his work in the form of an analysis of the problem. Can we also have this analysis in broad terms? The plan announced that coordinators should be appointed within the PPE Directorate-General by 1 June 2015 to be operational in December 2015. Where are we? Will the coordinators be operational this month? A placement policy based on the selection of inmates was also planned, in order to direct them to a specialized section or approach. Two sections for radicalized prisoners have already been announced: one of 16 places in Bruges, the other of 26 places in Ittre. It could be opened in January. Do you have a date for the opening of Bruges'? What is the status of specialized staff training as well? In order to strengthen the involvement of religious representatives, consideration was given to the creation of a statute defining their rights and duties. There were also plans to increase the cadre of Islamic advisers from 18 to 27 full-time equivalents by the end of this year. Can you tell us more about this status? Will it concern all the cults? How will this be defined? What budget will be required to increase the scope of these advisors? In what form has this been provided for in the budget currently being debated in Parliament?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic285x.u34	Mr President, Ministers, we must adapt a little to the way we work this afternoon. I shall put my question very briefly. It was also put forward by Mrs Özen Özlem and myself in April this year and concerns the reception of radicalised people in prisons. The Minister of Justice then explained that there would be separate terrorist cells in Ittre and Bruges by the end of this year. The question is very simple: have any progress been made on this? Today, we are faced with Syrian fighters or other terrorists who end up in prisons and who do not know exactly what happens to them before they are released.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic285x.u35	Minister, how many places will be available in the special sections for radical detainees, respectively in Ittre and Hasselt? What criteria will be used to decide to place an inmate in such a section? Who can make the decision? Will specific measures to accompany radical detainees be put in place within these special sections? If so, what will they consist of? Finally, some Islamic counselors believe that it would be more effective to transfer prisoners who practice religious proselytism or who are in the process of radicalization from one institution to another on a regular basis. What do you think?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic285x.u36	Minister, we discussed this earlier when you announced that you wanted to create specific departments in prisons. The specialists are at least divided on that, and I told you that at the time. This is a controversial subject. I had the pleasure, together with Mr Jambon, of exchanging views with a number of experts on this subject in a debate organized by the American company Politico. They indicated that attention should be paid to the fact that no titles can be obtained by residering in a particular department. One cannot create ticking time bombs through concentrated departments. That fear remains with me. In fact, that is why I asked the President-in-Office to allow me, using my powers, to look in a number of prisons. After all, I see that the most radicalized people in my city are all people who have often been in prisons and in specific wings of prisons. I believe that this remains an important pitfall. The question, Minister, is what progress has been made on its implementation? Other Members of this House have already said that we need to deal with the people in these prisons. When one talks about this with chaplains or prison directors, the problem of jurisdiction always arises. Forensic welfare is, after all, a competence of the Communities. And then there is the specific problem of Flemings speaking French, and so on. Minister, quid with the deradicalisation programme in those prisons? Do you really want to make little Guantanamo... Have you discussed this with the competent Communities? I read in the press that there would be a problem with the recruitment of the specialist you wish to recruit in this area, because the Treasury Inspectorate would be obstructed. What's up with that?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic285x.u37	Minister, my question is the same as Mr Bonte's previous one. What is the state of affairs in the appointment of the expert on deradicalisation in prisons? Do you have a solution to this problem? For me, a simple answer is enough.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic285x.u38	Mr Minister, very briefly, in the light of the phenomena of radicalism in certain companies, in the light of the screenings carried out in certain public companies, I wanted to ask you what measures are being taken now and what new initiatives are being taken by your services to monitor and control the facts of radicalisation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic285x.u39	Colleagues, the implementation of the plan to combat the radicalisation of prisoners is under way. I hear the concerns of Islamic advisers about the risk of concentration of detainees in these specialized sections, but I repeat once again that these sections are only a last resort for prisoners whose radicalization process requires specific support. That is why we are of course planning additional and targeted training for all Islamic advisers, and in particular for those who will be active in these specialized sections. In the sections specialising in Hasselt – and not Bruges – and Ittre, twenty places will be planned each time. Ittre prison is a rather natural choice. We needed an infrastructure to isolate these prisoners from others, but also to set up a specific programme focusing on disengagement. In addition, this infrastructure was to be available in a short period of time. The Ittre prison met all these needs. The section used was originally intended to become an enhanced security section, but the project was modified to become a specialized section in the fight against radicalisation. As already stated, the section is separated from the others, preventing contact between the inmates who reside there and the others in order to avoid contagion. In order to start the specialized section, internal prison volunteers will be called on, all of whom will receive specialized training. Mr Bonte, it may be appropriate to repeat which prisoners are eligible for inclusion in a specialised section. These are prisoners who pose a serious risk of radicalisation or engage in an armed struggle for ideological reasons. For the sake of clarity, there has never been any concentration of specific foreign terrorist fighters in the specialized section. As with all others, risk assessment will be done on an individual basis and on a case-by-case basis will be decided where they are best placed. Indeed, the starting point remains the twin-track policy. As far as possible, detainees are integrated within ordinary departments and not concentrated. Even in the special departments, a return will always be sought and/or a normalization of the penitentiary regime. Without going into all the details of the procedure, the general coordination of the screening of prisoners will be ensured by the central psychosocial service of DG PPE, in consultation with all relevant actors. The central psychosocial sector will send a report with advice to the regional management via the local management. The final decision on placement in the Specialized Section will be the responsibility of the Regional Directorate. In general, detention routes will be tailored to each individual inmate and will take into account specific risks and needs. Thus, there will be no standard regime for these radicalized inmates, but a most individualized approach, whether in the specialized sections or elsewhere. The whole of the reflection is supported by the new Extremism cell created within DG EPI. The mission of the Extremism cell is currently focusing on managing the information flow between the security services and the DG EPI. In the long term, the cell Extremisme is intended to develop as a centre of knowledge for the benefit of the people on the ground. As soon as the necessary funds are available for the recruitment of the coordinators, the Extremism cell will also provide guidance to them. The Extremism Cell already represents DG EPI within the National Task Force under the Plan R, which now includes the Federal Office. It goes without saying that the whole system requires staff specifically trained in this issue. Training is therefore under way. To develop an integral deradicalisation program, including the necessary training sessions, it was decided to cooperate with an internationally renowned team. The Treasury Inspectorate has invited the administration to conduct a market survey, but the contract is so specific and extremely delicate that the launch of a regular procurement procedure is not evident. After all, the reliability of these experts is very important. Self-explained experts should be prevented. As the services within DG EPI do not have the necessary expertise, one of the security services was contacted for advice. The service concerned was only able to identify a potential candidate, who has meanwhile made all his expertise available to the European institutions. On the basis of these elements, it should be possible to persuade the administrative and budgetary authorities to launch the deradicalisation programme as soon as possible. I will mention your support for this exercise, Mr Bonte and Mrs De Wit. The approach of deradicalisation is prison is not, of course, an exclusive competence of the federal government. The Communities must also play their part. I have therefore already consulted both the Flemish Community and the French Community. This consultation is still ongoing, and it is too early to report any results. I know, Mr Bonte, that this is important and we are working hard on it. As far as cults are concerned, the framework filling file was approved by the Finance Inspectorate as well as the file concerning the extension of the framework. The status issue is still under analysis. Priority remains the connection with police data banks in order to allow systematic follow-up of conditionally released radicalized detainees. Within a few weeks, information on the electronic supervision of prisoners sentenced to less than three years in prison, i.e. the majority of cases, will no longer be transmitted by fax but via an automated electronic transmission system to the relevant police areas and services. In addition, a working group has been set up between the Directorate-General of Prisons and the IT Service of the Integrated Police in order to enable police services to have direct access to all the necessary information from their computer working environment. With regard to the role of State Security, I can tell you that analysing the phenomenon of radicalisation in Belgian prisons is one of its priorities. One-time and individual findings on radicalized inmates will be incorporated. The intelligence service informed me that the analysis will be finalized for the first half of 2016. An annual update is also planned. This phenomenon analysis will be widely disseminated and the aim is to raise awareness of this issue among all relevant actors.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic285x.u40	The National Security Authority (NSA) is responsible for screening. For this purpose, the NSA must be seized by an administrative authority in order to issue security notices within the meaning of the Act of 11 December 1998 on classification, clearances, certificates and security notices concerning such personnel, following a screening carried out within the NSA by the State Security, the Defence Intelligence Service and the Federal Police. Following the radicalisation of staff working at Zaventem airport is carried out under the auspices of the local task force foreign terrorist fighters of the arrondissement of Halle-Vilvoorde. At Brussels Airport, a local work cell is set up consisting of the aviation police Brussels-National, the federal judicial police Halle-Vilvoorde department Airport and the Security of the State. This will ensure an integrated and integrated approach. In addition to almost daily punctual contacts, this cell also organises structured consultations at regular intervals to strengthen the information position on radicalised individuals. This information is shared with the partners on the local task force of the arrondissement of Halle-Vilvoorde, as provided for by law and regulation. For the question about the security clearance at Zaventem airport, I asked for the figures. In 2013 there were 218 negative opinions, in 2014 there were 206 and until yesterday there were 132. The number of badges withdrawn in 2013 was five, in 2014 three, and in 2015 four in Zaventem, two in Bierset and one in Gosselies. Moreover, the security officers of Infrabel, SNCB and STIB have been sensitized by the Federal Railway Police, since the beginning of terrorist threats in Belgium, to show greater vigilance, including towards their personnel. In case of suspicion, the officials of Infrabel and SNCB inform the police services and checks are then carried out. In this context, in the event of a potentially problematic situation, the competent services and competent authorities shall be informed, and measures adapted to the situation shall be taken.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic285x.u41	Thank you, Minister of Justice, for working in accordance with the April agreements. I have three comments to make. Firstly, our group can only encourage the creation of the international team that will consist of the unexplained experts. Secondly, we consider the individual approach to be crucial. It is important to categorize such persons. There are runners and there are people who are more radicalized and who therefore need to enjoy a different programme. Thirdly, I am more concerned with the two-track policy. From what point will the government decide to keep such persons in normal detention or to lock them in a specialised section? I'll get an answer to those questions soon.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic285x.u42	Minister, this needs to be organized very carefully. I share Mr Metsu's concern about who decides who ends up in this or that section or is released. I would like to take this opportunity to sound the alarm about the chaplains in our institutions. There are fewer of them and they have more work. We farmers back, they say. I am particularly curious about the Community's commitment to this, because this is where we are now crying with the hat.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic285x.u43	Without wishing to prolong the debate, I believe I have explained as well as possible how we will try to select the people who are eligible to sit in these special sections. This is done with the help of psychosocial services, based on foreign expertise and a risk assessment on an individual basis. For the sake of clarity, it will not be the Minister who makes the selection. It goes without saying that it is a decision that will never bear witness to perfect mathematical science. We must accept that this will be done as well as possible, never definitively and always reversible.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic285x.u44	Mr President, Minister, the question I am asking you is not new, not even in your ears. We have just talked about the follow-up and the problem of tackling radicalism. The effective understaff and also the lack of equipment of the federal parquet in Halle-Vilvoorde are beginning to play us effectively. Certainly it is also about the absence of a courthouse in that region. This means, among other things, that the succession of people who go through life with an anklet, for example, shows gaps. That is why my question is very clear. When will the brand new Halle-Vilvoorde parquet be regarded as a fully-fledged parquet, so that it gets the same instruments and men, and also, for example, a laboratory to carry out investigations, like all other parquets? When will this be implemented? Last time, you put things in perspective and I wonder what the situation is. There is also a great need for the House of Justice if we are to succeed radicalism effectively.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic285x.u45	Mr President, my questions are addressed to the Minister of Justice. Minister, I understand that you cannot say much about the ongoing investigation, and that it is not desirable to touch on the secrecy of the investigation, or to endanger the investigative duties to be carried out. On the one hand, I would have wanted to know the number of people who were arrested and the grounds for incrimination. On the other hand, Justice Claise was surprised that we do not have a judge specialized in terrorist financing. This issue is very important today. Is that correct? How are these investigations conducted today? Shouldn't there be a trained magistrate capable of following up on these issues of terrorist financing?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic285x.u46	As far as Mr Bonte's questions are concerned, the Halle-Vilvoorde District Court has a legal framework of 24 magistrates with a proportion of 21 magistrates. The 22nd is worthy of appointment before the end of this year, following a nomination by the Supreme Court for Justice. In addition, a first deputy warlord and five French-speaking magistrates were delegated to the Halle-Vilvoorde District Court. As regards the implementation of the staff framework of the judicial staff, 14.7 full-time equivalents are currently lacking out of a total of 83. In order to meet this shortage, I have offered the opportunity to recruit five temporary staff. Eight statutory vacant posts were also published and selection and recruitment procedures are under way. The recent royal decree establishing the establishment plan of the federal police determines the overall capacity of the federal judicial police Halle-Vilvoorde at 114 FTEs. This is an increase of 16 compared to the previous table, from 98 to 114. This is a potential capacity increase of 16,33 %. This is the second largest reinforcement among all 14 federal police units. In other words, only a judicial board does better than the FGP Halle-Vilvoorde in terms of capacity expansion. In November 2009, the framework decision on accreditation of providers of forensic services within the field of technical and scientific police was published. For Belgium, the European Framework Decision applies to the units of the General Executive Board of the judicial police operating within the domain of forensic sciences, in particular the laboratories of the technical and scientific police and other units responsible for the detection, processing and analysis of traces, such as the central laboratory unit and the judicial identification service. The future enforcement or establishment of police labs depends on obtaining the necessary accreditation in accordance with the requirements of the European Framework Decision. This process is taking place in five phases and is still under way. Advance the audit of the current situation and future accreditation is premature. Together with fellow Minister Jambon, the cost of that accreditation should also be taken into account when taking a decision after consulting several partners, such as the College of Attorneys General on criminal law policy and the federal police on the organisational aspect. Only at the beginning of next year will the accreditation dossier be sufficiently mature for a first joint decision. This will guide the preservation or the insertion of the labs in the womb of the federal judicial police. In the meantime, it would not be wise to make final statements at this stage. As far as the establishment plan of the parquet itself is concerned, the framework has been completed, as I said earlier, from 22 to 24 with a number of delegations. As far as the courthouse is concerned, according to the competent Minister of the Flemish Community, Jo Vandeurzen, the intention is to create antennas of the Dutch-speaking justice house in Brussels in Asse, Halle and Vilvoorde. He promised me that the recruitments would be done in the short term. With regard to the question on the status of the ongoing investigations put forward by Mr. Dallemagne, it should be noted that, in the context of the Belgian judicial investigation opened after the Paris attacks, forty persons were deprived of their liberty for verification and hearing, six persons were placed under arrest in the main file, all charged with terrorist assassination and involvement in an activity of a terrorist group. In addition, one of the six persons was charged with the illegal possession and transport of arms subject to authorization without the necessary authorization. In a related case, two persons were placed under arrest by the chief of involvement in the activities of a terrorist group and one person was released conditionally following the discovery of a weapon at his home during a search. With regard to the lack of a specialized investigating judge in the field of terrorist financing, the Royal Decree of 22 May 2006 fixing the quotas for specialized investigating judges to investigate terrorist offences determines the quota, on the basis of the number of cases opened in the Federal Prosecutor's Office in connection with each jurisdiction of the Court of Appeal: four for Brussels; three for Liège, one for which the German language is known; two for each of the other jurisdictions (Anvers, Ghent and Mons). These thirteen investigating judges were appointed by the first presidents of the courts of appeal on the advice of the federal prosecutor based on article 79, § 2 of the Judicial Code. This article stipulates that these investigating judges must have useful experience in the investigation of the offences referred to in articles 137 to 141 of the Criminal Code. This designation does not affect their status or assignment. By virtue of these designations, they shall give priority to the cases before them on the basis of Article 47.12, § 3 of the Code of Criminal Investigation. The oldest investigating judge appointed by the first president of the Brussels Court of Appeal shall ensure, as a dean, that the cases referred to him by the Federal Prosecutor under this Article are distributed. This is currently the Investigative Judge De Coster. These magistrates also carry out instructions on the financing of terrorism. In view of the current situation, it is proposed that I expand the scope of the investigative judges specializing in terrorism in Brussels to include two French-speaking and one Dutch-speaking. Such an extension requires an amendment to the aforementioned Royal Decree of 22 May 2006. This suggestion is made by the Public Prosecutor's Office, in particular the Federal Prosecutor at the request of Brussels judges specializing in terrorism. It is motivated by the considerable increase in the number of cases of terrorism in the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office, mainly in Brussels, and by the resulting workload of specialized Brussels judges. Such a decision would not have budgetary implications. It concerns, in fact, the appointment of examining magistrates in office without extending the scope of the framework. I have instructed my services to provide me, as soon as possible, with a proposal to amend the Royal Decree in question. Basic and ongoing training on terrorism appears to be sufficient. They are offered by the Judicial Training Institute to investigating judges who wish to do so. With regard to your last question, I would like to remind you, without referring to rule 122 of the Rules of the Chamber, that the Public Prosecutor's Office is generally unable to provide statistical data within the short period of time allowed to answer oral questions. Furthermore, in this particular case, no detail could be disclosed that could endanger the current instructions. However, I can point out that every instruction on terrorism has a financial component if there is evidence to justify it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic285x.u47	Minister, I will look at the figures. I would particularly like to thank the Minister for referring to the positive decision of his Flemish fellow minister to set up antennas in the Rand of the Justice House. That's something the Rand's been asking for for a long time.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic285x.u48	Minister, thank you for your answers to both questions. As far as the second question is concerned, as regards judges specialized in the financing of terrorism, I can only support the steps being taken today. This is obviously an important element. I was only asking for the number of cases in progress. It was not about asking an extremely delicate question about the content of the instructions. I understand you don't have the answer to that question. Maybe I can come back to it later.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic285x.u49	Minister, I can make my speech rather brief, because I have already asked you a question on the state of play of setting up the coordination committee on the fight against the illegal arms trade. This foundation has been announced since 2012. In the meantime, I noticed that the royal decree governing that establishment was published in the Belgian Official Journal on 9 November 2015. Most of my questions, namely the composition, were answered at the reading. There is really only one question, Minister. How will this coordination committee work? I only read that it will meet at least four times a year. How will the 12 representatives of the 12 services almost act as a Mexican army, all involved in the fight against illegal weapons? What concrete lines of action can we expect to bring about progress on the ground?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic285x.u50	Mr Van Hecke, I am grateful for the reduction in your question. The Presidency and the secretariat of the Committee will be carried out by the Directorate-General for Legislation of my administration, which has already asked the ministers, authorities and services concerned to appoint representatives so that a first meeting can be held before the end of the year. The fact that the Presidency and the Secretariat are carried out by the Directorate-General for Legislation of my administration should in itself reassure you. It is obvious that the Committee will have to work with a regulation of internal order, which it will adopt at the first meeting. Just in case, your servant wants to take part. In due course, you may ask me this question again. I am doing my utmost to get the committee together for the first time before the end of the year.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic285x.u51	Minister, I will question you regularly about this. I think it is very good that the committee can start soon. The creation alone is, of course, not enough. We also expect the cat to catch mice, or in this case weapons.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic285x.u52	Minister, my question concerns the departure of the imam from De Koepel mosque to Syria and the flow of information from VSSE to the Länder. Minister, last week we heard from the press that the famous imam Youssef E.G. He left for Syria to join the radical Muslim group to lead the jihad. The man preached in mosque El Mohsinien in Berchem, El Tah El Nasser in Hoboken and De Koepel in Borgerhout. In the Berchem mosque alone, 1 000 believers came a week. So he was able to reach a huge number of people. All three mosques were known as moderate. Unfortunately, we have to note that the imam has nevertheless left to join a terrorist organisation in the name of God. There are many things to note about this episode, but one of the most striking is the exchange of information between the State and Flanders in this matter. Apparently, the security of the State was aware of the problems in mosque De Koepel, but did not report this to the competent Flemish authorities. However, Flanders is competent for the recognition of mosques and such information is crucial. There is a cooperation agreement between the federal level and the Flemish level on information exchange, but in this case it was apparently not correctly applied. Is it true that the security of the state was aware of a problem in mosque De Koepel? Was Flanders informed about this? If so, when? If not, why not? Is the current cooperation agreement sufficient in principle to guarantee such an exchange of information? If not, when will you modify the cooperation agreement in order to optimise the exchange of information? If so, how will you ensure that the cooperation agreement is strictly respected?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic285x.u53	Minister, the recognition of mosques falls within the competence of the Regions, as you again pointed out in a speech I made to you a few weeks ago. However, in the current procedure, the services of the Federal Minister for Worship must give an opinion to the regional authorities. We have seen that at present a large number of mosques are not recognized by the public authorities, particularly in the Brussels region. Considering this finding, as well as the measures announced by the government regarding the acts of extremist preaching, as well as the recent statements by a member of the Brussels regional government in the press – the minister-president had indicated that the federal government was giving its opinions late – I would like to ask you what procedures are currently being processed within the federal services and which would be awaiting transmission to the regional authorities, and in particular to those of the Brussels-Capital Region.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic285x.u54	Mr President, in reply to Mr Metsu's question, the De Koepel mosque is not known as problematic, radical or extremist in the field of state security. Also Youssef E.G. who worked there was not known as radical. Before leaving for Syria, he never specifically drew the attention of the intelligence services. The local Muslim community was also surprised to learn of his departure. Youssef E.G. worked in De Koepel as an unrecognized imam. His wager was therefore not paid by the FPS Justice. He held the post of second imam in particular. Mr Metsu, within the framework of the cooperation agreement you mentioned on 2 July 2008 between the Federal Government, the Regions and the German-speaking Community, there is the Working Party on State Security Advice. This working group serves as a consultation platform where all federal and sub-state authorities with powers in the field of services of worship and intelligence are brought to the table. Questions about the recognition of mosques and the succession of recognized mosques are discussed here. There is therefore direct consultation between state security and the Flemish government on a regular basis. In addition, and in addition to this consultation platform, my services are currently examining the extent to which a global cooperation agreement between the State Security Service and the Communities and the Regions is possible. It is a fact that, in the light of the division of powers existing in Belgium between the Federal Government and the Länder, the level of substate government is becoming increasingly important for the State Security Service, both as a source of information and as a source of information. With regard to the question of the recognition of mosques and the federal opinion on it, as you indicate, applications for recognition of Islamic communities are submitted to the Regions by the representative body of the Islamic cult, which is the Executive of the Muslims of Belgium. Two cases are currently being submitted by the Flemish Region and six by the Brussels-Capital Region to the SPF Justice for opinion. These files are being processed. The measures announced by the Prime Minister on November 19, when the government issued a statement to the House on terrorism, are part of this. We are putting in place the necessary budgetary appropriations for the recognition of new Islamic communities for the three regions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic285x.u55	Mr President, Minister, I will ask my questions very specifically and quickly. Following the attacks in Paris, actions were taken at the borders. The border with our country was, as it were, better guarded on both sides. It soon became clear, however, that this surveillance with people is not sustainable. There were no men present at different posts. There has been a good camera shield in West Flanders for a long time. In some places, ANPR cameras have already been installed. Now we notice that containers are placed, for example at small border crossings, or that local mayors install installations that prevent the passage. Mr Minister, are there any concrete actions around the full camera shield in West Flanders? Do you want to systematically improve transition posts by placing camera dressings there? Are you also in contact with Flemish Minister Weyts, for example, to discuss its financing? I would therefore ask you, very specifically, what progress has been made with the necessary camera shield at the borders in West Flanders?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic285x.u56	Mr Bonte is no longer here.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic285x.u57	Mr Minister, while I understand the situation as it exists today, the municipalities, in any case in the Brussels-Capital Region, have, within the framework of the regional security plan, designated a reference "radicalism". You have, within the framework of federal and governmental means, granted additional means to certain communes, which also allow the designation of a complementary reference, more particularly dedicated to these communes. The communes were quoted earlier. There are four in Brussels, two in Wallonia and four in Flanders as well. What I see on the ground is that people designated as referents have an awareness of the subject of radicalism and not real training. I would therefore like to know what exists in the other regions of the country. Indeed, I am concerned about what is happening in the Brussels Region and I know that 19 people are designated as local referents and therefore sensitized but not necessarily trained. I don't know what's going on in Flanders or Wallonia. So I would have liked to have some insight on your part and look at what the federal government could do to improve the training of those who are currently being sensitized through these small modules. Indeed, I feel that the people who, in our communes, are dedicated to the fight against radicalism are not equipped with the tools or experience sufficient to achieve this. To what extent can the federal government intervene in this matter?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic285x.u58	Mr President, Mr Demon, I can answer your questions about the West Flanders camera shield. The approach with ANPR cameras in general, and in particular with regard to border areas, is one of the projects that I will present with regard to the budget of 400 million. Mr Pivin, with regard to deradicalisation officials, the interior administration provides for training. They exist and take place regularly within our FPS. There is a deradicalization service in which training is planned. I will inform you as soon as possible of their concrete organization.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic285x.u59	We may not have – but when I say we, it's not just at home – complete information about it. Indeed, our officials are exchanging with each other within the Region, but they are apparently only in contact with the Brussels-Capital Region. I am learning here at the moment that there are trainings at the federal level, which I think is an excellent thing.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic285x.u60	Minister, it is a good thing that you want to finance the ANPR cameras under the 400 million. However, I think it is important to emphasise that there are several transitional posts and border posts. As long as there are holes, where for example two or three border crossings do not get a camera, it will soon be clear where the escape routes run. That's why I think you should really go for a fully-closing camera shield. We can learn about this from places where such cameras are already set up, for example on the border with the Netherlands, where other forms of crime exist, and those positions need to be looked at. However, I would ask you to give priority to the camera shield with France.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic285x.u61	The last theme of this afternoon is Molenbeek.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic285x.u62	Mr Minister, I had planned a whole series of questions to which you have partly answered, but I would nevertheless like to go back to your rather harsh remarks towards the municipality of Molenbeek and its inhabitants. You said, and it's been taken up several times by my colleagues, wanting to clean up. You also mentioned, and above all, a plan that concerns the municipality and its inhabitants. I was arrested by your plan to send inside FPS agents. I would like to know how this specific plan in Molenbeek will be envisaged. Does it have a real prevention component? I'm talking about prevention, not deterrence, it's a necessary part too. How does this work? And above all, what will be the role of these officials that you intend to send to Molenbeek? Is it prevention or collaboration with the police or the municipality?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic285x.u63	Mrs Ben Hamou, we have indeed answered a lot of questions concerning Molenbeek. In the coming days or weeks, I will present a project for Molenbeek and perhaps other sites in Brussels. In any case it is clear - and I have always said - that I will do so in consultation with the various powers: the commune, the police areas and the regions. The links between Molenbeek and terrorism cannot be denied. We need to do something. But, I repeat, in collaboration with all levels. The most important thing, and I feel that the will is present at different levels, is to be able to bring together the different powers to act. You spoke about my proposal to entrust the officers of the Inland FPS with the task of registering the inhabitants. Very shortly after the attacks in Paris, I met with the Prime Minister, the mayor of Molenbeek. During our interview, she raised the problem of registering people and housing in her municipality. In terms of security, it is essential to know who is in our territory. This is true for refugees, but it is also true for the inhabitants of a municipality. That is why I have made this proposal, while considering making additional staff available to the municipality. This is a proposal with the aim of working together to solve this problem. We must not wait until a comprehensive plan is put in place because there is an urgent need. We will see how to put this into practice. I realize that this work can be dangerous. We need to help the local civil servants and the Internal SPF and provide police support, if necessary. I don't want to anticipate and say that we always have to send police with them. We must also see where the danger is. I am prepared to provide police support, if necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic285x.u64	Minister, thank you for your answers. You talked about radicalism. It is undeniable that there have been several departures from Molenbeek, but also from other municipalities. We have to make that clear. You also say that you are willing to send agents to help the commune, but what is needed in practice in the commune is police officers. You're committed to it provided it's necessary, but what's needed is recruitment. This is what the commune is asking for because there is judicial work to be done and it can only be done by police personnel. No temporary assistance is requested. This is a long-term task. The problem affects the heart of our society. The work must be done properly. It is not a few security missions that will solve the problem. I asked you about prevention, you didn't answer. What are you going to do to deter these young people from leaving? The municipality is also awaiting a preventive plan. You're launching a slogan "at the Sarkozy", you tell the press that you're going to clean Molenbeek, but in concrete terms, what does that consist of? The Molenbeek people are waiting for an answer too because they have been stigmatized by your comments. In these difficult times, I believe that as a minister, you must not stigmatize a whole commune. It is not a speech to be made especially with regard to the population that has nothing to do with it. If you can do something, it's good to recruit police personnel to work properly in the neighborhoods. But temporarily sending agents to check addresses, I don't see what it's going to do. You're going to set up a climate of suspicion. I have not had an answer to the question of prevention.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic285x.u65	All issues were addressed. The exchange of views took place. Timing is respected.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic285x.u66	Mr President, I had also tabled a question on the Schengen Information System. Can I have the answer in writing? That theme was dealt with when I was not present.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic285x.u67	The topic was discussed first and the exchanges of views took place. The Minister may provide you with his written response.
