ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic135x.u1	Madam President, Minister, at the end of the previous legislature, this committee started implementing the Colla Act in order to regulate non-conventional practices. I regret that we have not been able to complete this work before the end of the legislature. The implementation of the law is long overdue but is much needed. I therefore hope that this work will continue and that you, like your predecessor, will do so together with the committee. Acupuncture is one of these non-conventional practices. If I talk too fast for the translators, let me know.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic135x.u2	Attention, Mrs Detiège, we must not confuse reading very quickly and sum up to say only the essentials.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic135x.u3	Okay, but if I just start, it's gonna take longer. Several professional associations are already active within acupuncture. They would like nothing more than to draw up a statute, not to be eligible for reimbursement, but to guarantee patient safety. This is a priority for professional associations, which is also logical and necessary. Today, everyone can still call themselves acupuncturist, without the least education. It seems to me to be a good thing, if you continue with the work of the Colla Act, that we start with the acupuncture part. I have three questions for you. Madam Minister, are you going to continue the implementation of the Colla Act, which started in the previous legislature? Secondly, will you cooperate with the committee for this purpose as before? Thirdly, can you put a timing on this?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic135x.u4	Mrs Detiège, as provided for in the coalition agreement, an evaluation of the law of 29 April 1999 on non-conventional practices, including acupuncture, will begin. That evaluation will cover all aspects of that law. As you know, this is a complex and sensitive file with a very large history. I can't give you a timetable yet. Everything, of course, depends primarily on this evaluation, which will be the result of cooperation between the administration, my policy cell, the representative professional associations and the faculties of medicine. Given the scope of the consultation, you understand that this requires some work. The possible changes will of course first be submitted to this Chamber's Committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic135x.u5	Madam President, Minister, I understand that you are consulting with the people who need to be involved and that you will give feedback to our Parliament. I look forward to this meeting with the experts.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic135x.u6	Madam Minister, a while ago we were able to read that there has been a breakthrough in the treatment of hepatitis C, and that a particular medicine has produced excellent results. Its disadvantage is not so much that there would be many medical side effects, but that there is a financial side effect. In other words, for most people this medicine is priceless. I even hear prices from EUR 60 000 to EUR 120 000. This is a problem that we can identify with many new medicines. The cure I'm talking about is Sovaldi of Gilead. It appears to be better in all respects than existing medicines. It heals better and, as I said, it has fewer side effects. It also manages to make the virus almost disappear. For example, liver transplants or treatments against liver cancer can be avoided. The high price ensures that the RIZIV can only repay the medicine for a very select group of patients. Other people are unlucky. Madam Secretary, we know that, like your predecessor, you are trying, together with the administration, to ensure that prices remain as low as possible. Unfortunately, that doesn't always seem to be enough. Médecins du Monde now tries to get this medicine on the market cheaper by challenging the patent. Apparently, that worked in India. I would therefore like to ask you the following. Firstly, what solutions are being developed to help a larger group of patients? Secondly, what structural solutions are being worked on to repay the treatment of hepatitis C? There's absolutely no need for that. Thirdly, are there any other medicines with the same improvement in treatment coming? What will be the impact on the price of treatment? Fourthly and finally, how are you looking at Médecins du Monde's attempt to destroy the patent? How do you estimate the odds of this going to work? Thank you in advance for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic135x.u7	Minister, two new medications to treat hepatitis C, simeprevir and sofosbuvir, are being reimbursed by health insurance and we welcome that. Since the cost of these medicinal products is very high, the Reimbursement Commission has set, among other things, three limits on reimbursement: the type of patient who can benefit from them, the category of doctors who can prescribe them and the duration of the reimbursement. In the coming years, other hepatitis C medications will be on the market. What measures are you developing to meet this challenge?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic135x.u8	Minister, sofosbuvir is the answer that all HCV patients have long hoped for. Its award makes it a financial issue in the field of public health. Gilead, supported by the pharmaceutical industry, justifies it by the cost of research, the added value of health treatment, in particular the savings in liver transplantation, and especially the fact that it is intended for patients with type 3 or 4 fibrosis and for some, type 2 fibrosis. This would explain the limitation in the granting of treatment to persons with advanced disease, in order to avoid unsustainable draining of health funds. After lengthy negotiations, the price was set between EUR 40 000 and EUR 50 000, with treatment being placed on the market for low-income countries at a much lower cost, around EUR 1 000, which is still too high in terms of the means of these countries and especially of their inhabitants. The risk of seeing patients in countries where treatment is at a lower price, selling it to patients in countries where it is granted under strict conditions and at a much higher price, has led Gilead to put in place anti-diversion measures that, according to MSF, violate confidentiality and human rights. This led India to reject Gilead's and MSF's patent application to request a joint procurement mechanism, to review the way in which medicines are priced at European level according to the needs of patients, to the reality of the cost of research and production, to a fair remuneration for innovation, i.e. a moderate percentage of the cost of research and production, determined by the public authorities. Minister, can you tell us how many patients will have access to this new treatment and how much this represents compared to the total number of people with HCV? Can you tell us the cost of non-responses to treatments without sofosbuvir, i.e. the extension or prescription of another treatment in the event of therapeutic failure, in relation to treatment with sofosbuvir? Can you tell us how many of the side effects of treatment with Interferon and Ribavirin, with or without boceprevir, with and without sofosbuvir, are evaluated in terms of lost workdays? Minister, in the face of the evolution of the market for innovative treatments, what is your position in the face of MSF's request to join that which the French Government has already defended in European bodies for the purpose of sustainability of the care provided? Are these applications compatible with the maintenance of efficient and innovative pharmaceutical companies?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic135x.u9	I give the floor to Mr Thiéry, who has forgotten to ask his second attached question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic135x.u10	Madam President, let us be clear! I didn't forget. You gave me the floor for my question on hepatitis C. Now I do have a question about Fibroscan. Minister, Fibroscan is increasingly recommended by hepatologists for the diagnosis of hepatitis C. This technique should be accessible to many patients and has the big advantage of not being invasive. Minister, given that the conditions for reimbursement of hepatitis C treatment and the use of Fibroscan for this diagnosis are problematic, could you provide an update on the situation? In the context of a resolution, during the previous parliamentary term, we adopted unanimously, if I remember correctly, the fact of having a breakthrough in the Fibroscan field.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic135x.u11	Madam Chair, Minister, I will try not to repeat what has already been said about the problem of hepatitis C. To recall the numbers, hepatitis C affects about 1% of the population. However, accurate data still appear to be lacking and 50% of the carriers of the virus would ignore their HIV status, which is disturbing. To try to improve the fight against hepatitis C, a plan was adopted in 2014, containing 22 measures within the competence of both the Communities and the federal government for the next five years. Strategic directions include improved screening, increased prevention and effective treatment of patients through the introduction of new, effective drugs. The main objectives of this plan are to reduce the number of infections, to increase the number of HIV-positive people who know their status early, and to improve the care and quality of life of patients. Minister, is hepatitis C a priority for you in terms of public health? What about the status of the hepatitis C plan and its 22 measures? What fate do you reserve for the implementation of this plan? Has the issue of follow-up to this plan been addressed at the ICD Health? If, yes, can you tell us what was decided? Finally, my colleagues have alluded to it, we know that a new combination of antivirals is much more effective, since it can cure 90 to 100% of patients with much shorter treatment. What about access to these innovative medicines in our country? Do we know when they will be available and how their financial accessibility could be ensured?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic135x.u12	Madam Minister, first of all, everything about medicines in my question has already been asked. So I will not repeat those questions. Secondly, the national action plan also includes a number of other federal actions, including actions on medical equipment and drug users, an action not to link reimbursement to a biopsy, and an action on the national information point. What about the other federal actions included in the National Action Plan?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic135x.u13	In this plan, which I will not return to, I think it was intended that there would be one Fibroscan per province or geographic area. So I would have wanted to know where we were and why we had to undergo a biopsy first in order to benefit from the Fibroscan rebate. Biopsy is an invasive treatment; logic should be reversed. As far as medicines are concerned, for the moment there is an abundance of new molecules and possible new actions for treatments that allow us to heal, fortunately. It's new. Today, we can heal in a few months. Treatment is effectively accessible and reimbursable only in the final phase before the development of cirrhosis or fibrosis. So I would have liked to have a cost estimate that could explain why this medication is only reimbursed at that time. Is prospective work being considered to potentially change access to this type of treatment?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic135x.u14	Thank you, Madam President. After more than ten minutes of questions, I will try to be complete. There is indeed a breakthrough in the medical treatment of hepatitis C. The new virus inhibitors give high levels of eradication in clinical trials. I am talking not only about sofosbuvir, but also about other antiviral molecules in many firms. The first antiviral results in reallife situations were published in the journal Gastroenterology. In real life, antiviral results are somewhat lower than in study programmes, but still much better than in interferon-based schedules. So there is indeed hope for healing. Indeed, today, the new virus inhibitors are only reimbursed through an agreement between the RIZIV and the pharmaceutical companies. This guarantees a clear financial framework and it was also a conscious choice to cater only financially for patients with already advanced liver damage and cirrhosis, as well as in the situation of liver transplantation. That answers your questions directly, Madam President. Why do we need a biopsy? It's to see the cirrhosis. This is an anatomopathological diagnosis. In this context, cells are needed to examine the degree of severity of the liver. On a European scale, these molecules have become available rather early for the Belgian patients who are in great need of them. The Commission for Reimbursement of Medicinal Products is seeking a definitive solution within its working group on hepatitis at a time when the agreements between INAMI and pharmaceutical companies will be terminated. They started January 1, 2015 for 18 months. It will therefore be for July 2016. I hope it'll be sooner. They have time to formulate their advice. I am not in a position to predict what the Commission will give me in this regard. Personally, I prefer a flexible system for choosing antiviral molecules, which are accessible to more patients and remain financially viable. This is the enormous challenge we face as you can understand. Competition between different companies for the best antiviral results and, at the same time, for cheaper treatments than the cost of sofosbuvir must be able to play fully in this case. There are more and more molecules competing with each other. There must be comparative effectiveness for patients. From the number of questions I see that there is a lot of interference on the ground. I will remain in contact with other authorities in Europe to face this challenge. As you rightly point out, the high cost of antivirals is not a problem that is limited to Belgium. On the other hand, legal procedures for patent disputes are legally complex and highly technical. It is not for me to intervene or comment in patent disputes on decisions to be taken by the competent courts. It's a separate part. For us, what is important is that the medicine that is reimbursed is effective for the patient and that the patient can get this medication as quickly as possible. As far as Fibroscan is concerned, there is an investigation in progress within the administration. A working group is looking at whether this can reduce the number of liver punctures. You should know that there are also other techniques on the rise at the moment and they must also be compared with the results of both Fibroscan and the puncture. It is essential in medicine to make as accurate a diagnosis as possible before starting therapy, and that is also the intention. Not only the Fibruscan is researched, but other innovative techniques are also investigated. The goal is an equally accurate diagnosis. The diagnosis by puncture is accurate but invasive; it is true, but we can only replace it with a non-invasive technique as well as the accuracy with which the diagnosis and follow-up are made is equally effective.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic135x.u15	Thank you, Minister, for your detailed reply. What you said about the punctures, that one has to follow science in them, makes sense. I understand the procedure, with a working group working on hepatitis. I have every respect for the people who sit there and do their job. In my concern about the stories about Soliris, I have also asked your predecessor to ensure that the prices charged by the companies are kept correct. That is why I have also been asked this question: there is a tendency towards many new medicines, which are becoming increasingly expensive. If we want to reach more patients, we have to negotiate heavily with these companies. The message I would like to give you is to put pressure on those firms as far as possible so that we can reach as many patients as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic135x.u16	Madam Chair, I simply thank the minister for her response. This was sufficiently clear.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic135x.u17	Madam Chair, I realize that having asked questions with quite different components did not facilitate the Minister's response. I recall that I had mentioned the problem of the risk of transferring products from the Third World to the West. It is a matter on which it will be important to continue to reflect in order to avoid the Third World being the victim of this price difference with the West.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic135x.u18	Madam President, I would like to thank the minister very briefly for her answer, which shows that she is aware of the problem. As Mrs Detiège has said, it is important to make every effort, in an offensive manner, to ensure that the private sector can also adapt production and prices so that these effective medicines can be accessible to as many people as possible. Unless I have been very inattentive, I have not heard any answers to the questions I have asked about the state of play of the hepatitis C action plan and its measures, but I will return to the subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic135x.u19	Madam Minister, I understand from my fellow Members that the urgency for innovative medicines is a little more important. I myself had a number of questions about the plan itself and about the federal measures. I suggest we get back to it some other time. This subject will certainly be continued.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic135x.u20	One can always identify one or the other point to be explored at another time. I do confirm that there is an abundance of new molecules and files introduced for prices or for refunds. It is important to be able to put pressure on these pharmaceutical companies. As far as Fibroscan and biopsy are concerned, of course, good diagnosis is needed. But it would be interesting to have an explanation that can be easily given, including by us, who are sometimes questioned, given this fear of biopsy. The softer approach of Fibroscan in the first place gives the courage to go biopsy if you realize that it is necessary. If there are elements that are involved and that need to be done otherwise, there is an informational effort to be made. The same applies to information on the knowledge of this disease and its detection.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic135x.u21	Madam President, Minister, it is very good news that many cancers are becoming treatable and that survival rates are increasing enormously. However, in the case of many cancer treatments, the costs that patients themselves have to pay are very high. The government does indeed pay a large proportion, but many patients who have been physically recovered have been financially severely affected by the treatment. Despite our social security and despite the maximum bill, health care still pushes many patients into a financial pit. Every year hundreds of patients come to the Cancer Fund of Kom op versus Cancer for financial support. Especially the supplements that patients have to pay out of their own pocket are killing many. The cost also depends on the type of cancer. Certain cancers are more expensive than others. I think about leukemia and brain tumors, which lead to enormous hospital costs. In breast and ovarian cancer and nose, throat and ear cancer, it is mainly the non-medical costs that are high. Because cancer is a chronic disease, the treatment of every type of cancer requires a lot of visits to doctors and specialists. It is therefore a pity that these patients cannot count on a compulsory third-party payment scheme, a subject on which I shall return. Many elderly and single people, but also other patients, are becoming increasingly difficult to make ends meet when faced with cancer. I would therefore like to ask you the following. Can the ceiling of the maximum invoice be lowered for the weakest groups? I agree with the question of Kom op tegen Kanker, which says that it would be good to reduce the lowest ceiling for the MAF, which is EUR 450 today, to EUR 250. What initiatives will you take to support that weakest group? How do you want to get the too high own contributions to supplements down?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic135x.u22	Madam President, Mrs Detiège, in reply to your question, I can tell you that the government agreement stipulates that priority will be given to initiatives to remove the financial thresholds which may hinder access to health care for certain categories of the population or delay the necessary care. Last Friday, at the Council of Ministers, we decided that disabled children of any family, regardless of the status of parents, self-employed, employed or recipient of a replacement income, will be granted a maximum invoice for the medical costs of that child on the basis of having a disability. That's one of those weaker groups. I also refer to the progressive granting of the right to the compulsory third-party payment scheme to the general practitioner, as it will now enter into force for the 1.8 million people in a preferential scheme. I suppose this is usually about weaker people. There is also the extension of the ban on pay supplements in double or multiple rooms, including for day hospitalization, which is included in the law on various provisions. This draft has already been passed by the Council of Ministers and will be submitted to the Chamber after the holiday. In addition, there is the strengthening of tariff security within the framework of the agreement and agreement system. In implementation of the national medical funds agreement 2015 a scheme will also be developed for fees supplements for certain benefits in kind such as breast reconstruction after cancer, and for supplements for clinical biology benefits in kind, pathological anatomy and genetic examinations. In addition, cancer patients receive an increased reimbursement of certain special cases according to their condition, for example in the event of hair loss due to therapy, as well as for travel expenses to and from treatment centres. Administrative simplification and the automatic allocation of social rights are also important issues in terms of accessibility. Today, too, we note that, unfortunately, a number of people do not exercise these rights because they do not know them or are deterred by the administrative steps that need to be taken. In this context, a proactive exchange of data between the sickness funds and the FPS Finance will also take place from this year onwards with regard to socialinsurers who do not yet benefit from increased insurance coverage, but who may be entitled to it on the basis of their income. The financial data will be cross-referenced with the consumption of benefits reimbursed by the sickness funds. In other words, the sickness funds will be able to seek out and inform potential beneficiaries of increased benefits. As far as the maximum invoice is concerned, for some years there has been a specific maximum invoice for chronically ill persons, reducing the applicable brake charge ceiling for families in which a family member is chronically ill. When the statute of a person with a chronic illness was introduced in 2013, which happened in the committee's lap, that measure was extended to include those affected by cancer. So much for the efforts that have been made. If we can do more in this area, we will of course not fail to do so, knowing that everything must of course be possible within the budgetary framework.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic135x.u23	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. You come up with a number of positive elements. If one is ill, one is indeed dealing with the disease and not with the administration. A lot of people are often scared off because they don't know the system, because it's complex. I am pleased to hear you say that you are sitting with the FPS Finance and the sickness funds to find a solution. Is there a timing for that meeting? I do not think this can be arranged in a month, because I understand that it is a complex fact.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic135x.u24	It is important that the system works properly if we start with it. It concerns the cross-section of data between the FPS Finance and the FPS Social Security. We will not start with this until this works properly.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic135x.u25	I'm very happy about that. I still have contacts with my network from the time I was active in the field myself. You can sometimes see reversals in specialists. If you no longer have supplements for certain aspects, so that the patient does not have to pay for them himself, they will avoid this when indicating their transactions. This means that the patient has to pay for supplements. Strict care must be taken to ensure that this is done correctly. Those are signals I get regularly from on-site. I'll give this to you for information.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic135x.u26	If the patient thinks there's been an error...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic135x.u27	It's not even at the patient's level.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic135x.u28	This must be reported to the health insurance fund. There's nothing we can do if nothing's reported. Tell them to report this to the sickness fund.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic135x.u29	I'm already doing that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic135x.u30	Then you can contact the hospital or the surgeon. We can only act if something is established.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic135x.u31	Madam President, Madam Minister, when the 2015 budget was drawn up, there was a question of achieving a structural economy in the field of implants, of the order of 25 million euros, of which 18.75 million from April 1, 2015. It was the responsibility of the Commission for Reimbursement of Implants and Invasive Medical Devices to examine how reimbursement of implants and invasive medical devices could be achieved to achieve this objective. In my view, this could be done in two ways. The first would be to make a linear economy, in which case we should talk about percentages. In this first hypothesis, what percentage are we talking about to reach those 25 million? The second possibility would be to allocate the effort to a number of firms in the sector. In this case, on what basis would the effort be calculated?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic135x.u32	Madam President, Mr Thiéry, the savings will be achieved in two phases. The first, which will enter into force tomorrow, on 1 April, concerns savings geared towards a reduction in prices. In a second phase, no later than 1 September 2015, structural measures will be developed, which will allow better allocation of resources and control of volumes. This task will be carried out by a working group composed of the members of the Medical Technical Council and the Commission for Reimbursement of Invasive Implants and Medical Devices, which may then invite the relevant field actors. This is not a linear measure in the latter case. The distribution of savings was based on public health considerations, a comparison of prices and the number of cases of some implants with neighbouring countries and on recent market developments. No measures have an impact on the patient. A large part of the measures in the first phase concern vertebral implants, amounting to €9.8 million. Indeed, the large number of back interventions in Belgium has been highlighted for years. There has been a 40% increase over the past decade. These would be much more numerous than in neighbouring countries. By comparing Belgian and French prices, a margin to reduce the prices of certain products appeared. This saving is achieved mainly by the introduction of packages in order to also primarily empower hospitals and doctors practising implants while protecting patients. Another important saving is coronary stents and implants associated with coronary expansion amounting to €6.7 million. In view of the prices applied on the ground, a reduction of the flat-rate base of 12.5% is possible. It is now useful for me to stress the importance of the long-term approach that my administrations are currently addressing through Phase 2 of this exercise.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic135x.u33	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. The important point for me is that there is no impact on patients. That seems fundamental to me. As I understand it, there is a desire to raise awareness both of the medical profession and of hospitals, it also seems to me to be extremely important. The logic would have been to move more towards a sort of linear distribution because everyone would have been concerned. That's not the case. I would have been in favour of that solution. I see that there is a rational calculation behind it, compared to the experience of other neighbouring countries. We will see in the future what it will give on the ground. But I am glad to hear that there is a rational calculation that supports this decision.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic135x.u34	Madam Secretary, we have all read that we must consume less sugar. The World Health Organization has done a great deal of work in this area. It is interesting that the Federation of Food Industries, Fevia, also wants to have this debate. I suppose this will happen with you. Madam Minister, I have a few questions for you, and you have already received a question in plenary. You said at the time that you would consider this issue and that a possible agreement with the sector on product standards, on transparent labelling and on sugar advertising is in the making. You also said that progress would be made quickly. I therefore have three very brief questions. When exactly does this working group meet? Do you have a plan of approach and timing? When can we expect results from this?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic135x.u35	Mrs Dedry, a health survey shows that 42% of Belgians eat sugared or salted snacks every day. For younger people, that is 55%. You know that the majority of these sugared snacks give empty calories, which means they do not contain nutrients but they do contain a lot of fast sugars. These simple sugars negatively affect blood sugar levels, which may result in an increased risk factor for type 2 diabetes due to the excessive consumption of this type of sugary snacks in the medium or long term. It is therefore crucial to develop strategies to reduce sugar consumption. Indeed, in 2012, a working group was set up as part of the National Food and Health Plan on energy reduction. It includes people from my administration, scientific experts and the various sectors of the food and catering sector. The aim of this working group is to reduce not only sugars but also saturated fats and trans fats. In addition, work should be done to reduce the portions. A reduction in the consumption of added single sugars, combined with an increased intake of essential, complex carbohydrates...................................................................................................................................... At this stage of the discussion, the Working Group has not yet established formal commitments with the various sub-sectors and federations. However, the concrete energy reductions by reducing the sugar content have been introduced by 2016. The next meeting of the working group will take place at the end of April, beginning of May at the latest. In view of the number of working groups, these people must also be brought together. I will ask for the outcome of the working group and I will not fail to return to it once the engagements needed in this area have been taken by 2016.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic135x.u36	Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic135x.u37	Madam President, I propose that a working group on energy reduction be set up in this committee. I don't know how you're doing, but I'm going out of my mind right now. If one were to do an energy scan of Brussels, I think we would be a big red spot here.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic135x.u38	Perhaps the new presidency of the House will succeed where others have failed? Here, we have heating and we're going to install the cold air conditioning. Mr. Frédéric, the logistics manager of the parliament, will give you a technical explanation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic135x.u39	I am not responsible for logistics, but the investments are too important to implement the air conditioning system. Starting this year, we will meet in committee at the Forum. The six committee rooms are in the process of being completed. It'll be nicer. Another little effort!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic135x.u40	I am pleased that the male part of this committee is also too warm.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic135x.u41	The minister asked; the parliament replied.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic135x.u42	In that respect, there are genuinely equal opportunities in this committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic135x.u43	Madam President, Minister, the International Narcotics Control Board (INCB) was recently alarmed at the proliferation of new drugs developed by traffickers to circumvent existing legislation. The peculiarity of these psychoactive substances, also known as legal highs, is that they resemble illegal drugs, that they have the same disastrous effects as illegal drugs, but that they do not fall under the law because their molecular structure is significantly different from illegal drugs. These are often inexpensive, easily accessible drugs whose apparent legality gives the impression of being safe. Yet their effects on consumers are disastrous. Cocktails often prove to be truly explosive and have dramatic health consequences. According to INCB, as of 1 October 2014, 388 such substances had been listed worldwide, 11% more than in 2013 and twice as many as in 2009. In view of this fact, which is not new, your predecessor, Mrs Onkelinx, had passed an important law in order to counter the ever more rapid development of the drug market, in particular by allowing the criminalisation of groups of substances or the criminalization of preparatory acts. This is the Act of 7 February 2014 amending the Act of 24 February 1921 concerning trafficking in poisonous, soporific, stupefying, psychotropic, disinfectant or antiseptic substances and substances that may be used for the illicit manufacture of narcotic and psychotropic substances. Minister, can you tell us what is the status of this legislation? Have the royal decrees ever been taken? If not, when can they be? To what extent has this new legislation already made it possible to better combat legal highs? Can you tell us how many of these new substances have been reported in Belgium in recent years? What are the latest figures in this respect? Finally, are you considering new measures to combat these new drugs?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic135x.u44	Mr Senesael, a first proposal for an order for generic structures is being developed for many categories, e.g. fentanyl derivatives, piperazine derivatives, synthetic canabinoids, cathinone, etc.... Since the structure of the current orders does not allow for the introduction of this form of structures, the Federal Agency for Medicines and Health Products will reconcile the two current orders of application, as soon as possible. The generic classification will greatly increase the number of substances covered and may have an unintended negative impact on the sector that handles these substances legally. This sector should be consulted in order to refine the legislation if necessary. The ultimate goal is to strike a good balance between the protection of public health and an adequate legal framework for scientific research and legal trade. In the meantime, in order to guarantee public health, the Royal Decree of 22 January 1998 will soon be amended by the addition of approximately 90 substances circulating in Belgium and not currently under control. This addition will allow justice and customs to react also in these appropriate cases. With regard to the number of new psychoactive substances, the Early Warning System of the Scientific Institute of Public Health, which follows the evolution of these molecules, observed a rapid increase in the number of substances reported. Indeed, in Belgium, during 2013, 81 types of new psychoactive substances were identified, some 10 of which were identified for the first time. Synthetic canabinoids (18) represent the most common types with cathinones (22) and phenethylamines (24). The final figures for 2014 are also currently in an analysis phase and will be available in April. This phenomenon is worrying. Meanwhile, when a new drug is reported, like the famous Superman drug, the Agency reacts immediately. In the meantime, one-off actions are still possible. This super-drug was detected in Belgium on a Friday night. The Agency has reacted illico via the media to warn the public against this very dangerous drug party. Our neighbouring countries deplore some deaths and it is important to be wary of them.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic135x.u45	Minister, thank you for your concrete and specific answers. I am pleased that orders are being prepared in order to counter the presence, appearance and use of these drugs; that the Medicines Agency is in constant contact with your services to provide the answers you have just mentioned, which will also enable the reactions of justice. That the sector can be consulted in order to refine the legislation is also a good thing. I can only encourage you to continue in this direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic135x.u46	Over the past few weeks, the debate on banning solar banks has flared up again. According to the Foundation against Cancer, there is scientific evidence that solarbank use is carcinogenic. In addition, we find that the Belgians belong to the frontrunners in solarium use. The figures of the FPS Economy show that the rules are hardly observed. The radiation from a solarium corresponds to a UV index of 12, as strong as from sun rays around noon when it is recommended to seek shelter from the sun because of its harmful effects. The Foundation's appeal against Cancer is directed against the professional use of solariums and not against home use. The medical use is also not endorsed. The solar banks themselves do not agree with the Foundation's statements against Cancer. According to them, the vast majority of skin cancer cases are due to exposure to the sun and not to the UV light of sunbeds. Do you have any figures showing that the solar banks are indeed responsible for a certain part of the skin cancers? In light of those results, are you considering taking steps against the centers? I am thinking of tightening the criteria or even banning the centres, as has already happened in other countries. Do you intend to follow the Foundation's demand against Cancer?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic135x.u47	Mrs Van Camp, what the Foundation says to Cancer is undoubtedly very well meant, but the information available on the Cancer Register does not allow for a causal link between cancer and any risk factors, such as the use of solar banks. Risk factors are not recorded separately in the default dataset. In other words, it is not possible to estimate the number of skin tumours due to solarium use. It is well known that the number of hours that the skin is exposed to direct sunlight is related to the development of skin cancer. However, one cannot distinguish between cancers due to, for example, solarium use, unprotected walking around in summer or sunbathing on a journey. My colleague, Minister Peeters, is responsible for monitoring and setting up the approximately 4,000 solar banks. He regulates the possible entanglement of the rules governing the operation of solariums. By the way, he has already responded and said that he will be sitting with the operators of solariums. In concrete terms, therefore, the control of registration is entirely the responsibility of the FPS Economy. Sunbeds must provide a reception consultant who informs customers about the dangers of solariums. Those employees must have received training. The Community shall also determine such training conditions. According to the Royal Decree of 20 June 2002, persons under 18 years of age have no access to solar banks. Of course, I am aware of the dangers of too much exposure of the skin to radiation, either by sunbeds or by the sun. In the long term, if we wish to seek a conclusion, this can only be done in a gradual manner. In the other case, the risks are shifted to alternatives, such as what is now on the rise, the tanning creams as well as excessive sunshine in the sun on all kinds of trips, I assume. After all, there's not that much sun here. Alternatives are all kinds of solar devices, including in private homes. Consequently, the objective is unlikely to be achieved. Quite a few civilians seem to have a solarium in their house. That's not exactly something I'd buy. In any case, the phenomenon appears to be more widespread than is assumed. The danger is that when solar banks close, more people will install a solarium themselves. There is no longer any control whatsoever on this, not even on the use of it by minors or on the number of hours under the sunbed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic135x.u48	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answer. The figures also show that home use is only 6%. Only 6% have a solarium at home. The question is also whether or not the solarium is being used. This is therefore rather a marginal phenomenon. Since other countries have made a ban, I wonder what they have based on. I'll look into the matter, and I'll come back to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic135x.u49	It is true that this is a real problem in our contemporary society.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic135x.u50	Madam Chair, Minister, since January 1, 2015, you have decided to simplify user tickets. It is clear that we support the principle of simplification. Nevertheless, and we have had several times the opportunity to draw your attention to the problem, this simplification has had financial consequences, even if you justified them by saying that some costs are decreasing. In fact, 70% of people who use moderator tickets have seen an increase. Even if it is sometimes light, it still remains an increase for people who are ill and have financial problems. Among the moderators' tickets, the one concerning the fees of gynaecologists is of particular interest to me. For conventional gynaecologists, the consultation amounted to EUR 24.48 and the INAMI reimbursement increased from EUR 16.25 to EUR 12.48, i.e. a difference of EUR 3.77 for patients who do not benefit from a preferential treatment. Today I am reminded that there is a specific problem in the context of the free prenatal consultations carried out by the ONE in hospital institutions. Apart from the NEB's consultations on its own premises, there is a series of consultations in the hospital, carried out by contracted physicians who agree not to perceive the differential, allowing women monitored by the NEB to benefit from prenatal consultations. With an increase in the user ticket of 3.77 euros per consultation, there is a risk of reducing the number of gynaecologists who agreed to consult ONE patients, to the detriment of the most vulnerable population. Until now, doctors practising in hospitals have agreed not to receive the moderator ticket in order to ensure the final free of charge for future mothers. In view of the hospital and financial problems, some hospitals, considering that their income is overburdened as a result of this increase in the user ticket, could charge future mothers for this increase. Minister, as you know, the NEB's mission is to carry out parental support and health promotion actions, including the organization of its free prenatal consultations. On the other hand, a significant proportion of families who use NEB consultations are generally vulnerable and vulnerable. It is obvious that these families could give up these consultations if the moderator ticket were to be billed. This decision has a clear impact on these fragile families and on the federated entities that carry out this policy. Therefore, do you not think that a consultation should have taken place, and that it should now at least take place with the various entities? In view of the decision you have taken, could corrective measures be taken by the federal government to offset the budgetary impact of this decision in order to avoid this situation and to allow the relevant entities to continue to conduct their policy without being confronted with the fait accompli? Finally, have any contacts been made or are they envisaged with your colleagues in the Communities on this issue?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic135x.u51	Mr Mathot, thank you for your questions on a very interesting subject. One of the recommendations to increase access to health care is, as you know, the organization of adequate preventive care for populations with risky behaviour. In this context, special attention is paid to improving sexual and reproductive health. In order to increase the accessibility of care, the Communities organise, among other things, prenatal consultations for these populations. Flanders, where the corresponding body bears the name of Kind en Gezin, currently subsidises seven prenatal support points in Flanders and Brussels for a total of about 500 sessions. Kind en Gezin focuses entirely on vulnerable pregnant women. In Wallonia, prenatal consultations within the NEB are not specifically targeted at a target group. However, the Agency states in this regard that "these provide you with free but only preventive medical surveillance. In other words, if by chance a small health problem occurs, the consultation team will advise you to contact a gynaecologist and will not take care of the care you may need." It is therefore clearly a matter of preventive action. According to the NEB's annual report, there are two broad categories that monitor pregnancy: prenatal hospital consultations and pre-natal neighbourhood consultations. The 2013 Annual Report of the NEB states that, I quote, "Free is direct or can result from payment of fees and equivalent reimbursement through a health care reimbursement system". From a legal point of view, Article 2 of the Regulation of 28 July 2003 implementing Article 22, 11 of the Compulsory Health Care and Allowances Insurance Act, co-ordinated on 14 July 1994, specifies that, I quote, "under no circumstances may be reimbursed by health care insurance the costs relating to the benefits which are required (...) by the public authorities". The Office for Birth and Childhood (ONE) is an organisation of the Wallonia-Brussels Federation. The NEB is therefore a public interest body in the French Community. An agreement between INAMI and the NEB concerning the use of nomenclature numbers for the reimbursement of preventive prenatal consultations is not and cannot be concluded. The problem that you raise, namely that gynaecologists will be demotivated on financial grounds, leads me to the conclusion that the NEB uses the nomenclature numbers that are part of the compulsory health insurance. This is also confirmed in the NEB's annual report. Within the hospital community, 96,714 antenatal consultations and 8,328 postnatal consultations were conducted in 2013. This is reflected in the 2013 NEB Report. For a consultation with the gynecologist, this is a refund by the INAMI of at least, as you said, 12.48 euros per consultation. This reimbursement is higher for patients who benefit from BIM status (Beneficiaries of the increased intervention). This implies an INAMI intervention of more than €1.3 million, again according to 2013 figures. To answer your question, I asked the INAMI Medical Assessment and Control Service to review the antenatal consultation file organized by the NEB. This service will open an investigation to thoroughly analyze and evaluate the regulatory framework and its application. This dossier will be examined in consultation with the Communities within the Interministerial Conference. In Flanders, Kind & Gezin does not do this. INAMI numbers are not used. Nevertheless, an evaluation and monitoring will take place.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic135x.u52	Minister, I am somewhat disappointed with your answer. Indeed, I do not have the impression that you are trying to find a solution to this real problem. Women in difficult financial situations appeal, and no loving joy, to this body to ensure a safe prenatal period. On the other hand, there are links between the NEB and hospitals in order to bring these patients to the latter, where they will have to give birth. Instead of becoming aware of this issue and recognizing that the transformation of the moderator ticket could result in these people no longer going to hospital under secure conditions – which would lead to real personal and financial drama – you provide a legal response invoking possible irregularities. I am obviously disappointed by this answer. Instead of trying to provide a factual answer that would allow these people to benefit from the ONE tomorrow, you are giving me a legal answer. You're telling me, with what you're talking about, maybe there's something illegal. We're going to tighten the screw again and check if the doctors are in order at the INAMI level. Do whatever you want. But I just want to point out to you that in 2013, a doctor was pointed by INAMI. INAMI did not find anything to say when it was conducting free consultations in a hospital for ONE patients. I don't have a problem. It is your policy and your will to save money at all costs. The consequences are clear. They will affect the patient who, for the time being, is already financially weakened and who will be even more so tomorrow. The Commission may no longer have access to these consultations because it either lacks the resources or will no longer be able to obtain these free consultations in hospitals. It is on the back of these people that once again, the savings will be realized. Therefore, you will allow me, following this inquiry, to table a motion.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic135x.u53	Mr Mathot, it is not a question of whether pregnant women should be investigated preventively. Of course that must be done, that is necessary! The point is that this happens in Flanders, in the context of prevention, by Child and Family and that it is not passed on to the RIZIV. In Wallonia these investigations also happen, but there they are passed on to the RIZIV, although the law does not allow that at all. That is the crux of the matter. From a medical point of view, we agree, but it is also essential that I have to investigate what, presumably, is happening illegally. I shall be happy to inform you of the results. I have to watch over the application of the law on reimbursement. Everything has its rights. Belgium is a complicated country, with Community powers and federal powers. However, we must act correctly, especially if we know that refunds vary in Flanders and Wallonia. That is the crux of the matter, and I will work with you to the bottom. Thank you for your question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic135x.u54	I don't know who that quote is anymore: "The only way to have the last word with a woman is to say yes." Nevertheless, I would like to have the last word. Of course I'm not going to say yes. In Flanders, indeed, INAMI is responsible for all pregnancy follow-ups. On the French-speaking side, the French Community takes care of the pregnancy follow-ups of future mothers in pre-natal wards and even the follow-up of pregnancy in prenatal hospital wards of future mothers who do not have health care insurance, which ultimately causes savings for the federal government. I repeat: I find it a pity that the answer to a factual problem, from people in difficult situations, is a legal answer. But we will have an opportunity to discuss it again, particularly with this motion.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic135x.u55	In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. A motion for recommendation was tabled by Mr. Alain Mathot and reads as follows: The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Mr Alain Mathot and the response of the Minister of Social Affairs and Public Health, asks the government - to make rapid contacts with the Communities concerning the consequences of the increase in the moderator's ticket for the prenatal hospital consultations of the ONE; - to compensate financially for the increase in the user fee for the NEB's prenatal hospital consultations in order to enable the NEB to maintain its fundamental principle of free of charge and to prevent certain vulnerable families from giving up such consultations; - to provide for systematic consultation with federated entities before taking decisions that can directly impact the policies for which they are competent. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr Alain Mathot and reads as follows: The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mr Alain Mathot and the reply of the Minister for Social Affairs and Health, asks the government - to establish rapid contact with the Communities with regard to the impact of an increase in the amount of the brake charge on the prenatal hospital consultations of Child and Family/ONE; - to compensate for the increase in the brake charge for the prenatal hospital consultations of Kind and Family/ONE in order to maintain the basic principle of free-of-charge and to prevent disadvantaged families from refraining from these consultations; - consult systematically with the sub-areas before taking decisions which may have a direct impact on the policy areas for which they are competent. A simple motion was tabled by Valerie Van Peel, Nathalie Muylle and MM. Luc Gustin et Dirk Janssens. A simple motion was tabled by Mrs Valerie Van Peel and Nathalie Muylle and by Mr Luc Gustin and Mr Dirk Janssens. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic135x.u56	Madam President, Minister, on March 13, we were celebrating International Endometriosis Day. Unfortunately, this disease, which affects many women, remains little known to the general public. The consequences of this gynaecological disease can, however, be severe and particularly handicaping. Thus, patients with this condition may experience severe pain. Endometriosis can also cause cysts or lesions. Finally, and even more serious, this disease is likely to cause infertility. One of the main difficulties associated with this disease is the difficulty of making a diagnosis due to the variety of symptoms of endometriosis and its various manifestations. His diagnosis can take several years. Yet, many women suffer from this condition. According to some studies, it would affect one in five women. She would also be the main cause of female infertility. Particular attention should therefore be paid to this public health issue. Minister, are you aware of the number of women with this disease in our country? What is the current therapeutic strategy for treating this disease? What is the average cost of this treatment? Are there any recent studies on the subject? Do you think that the training of doctors places sufficient emphasis on this pathology? Finally, are measures envisaged to improve the awareness of the general public and the care of patients?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic135x.u57	Madam President, Mr Mathot, endometriosis is a female disease that manifests itself in very painful menstruation due to internal bleeding and which can obviously lead to infertility. According to international estimates, 5 to 10 per cent of women of childbearing age could be affected. The treatment is essentially hormonal and aspecific, because the woman can take hormones for a lot of reasons other than endometriosis. Normally, it is often a matter of contraception. In some cases, the gynecologist will propose conservative surgery to remove endometriosis tissue, preserving the uterus and ovaries. These cysts can also be installed on scars in the stomach, on the ovaries, in the uterus but also in the colon. It's very painful! Only in extremely rare cases will a total hysterectomy be considered. In view of the impossibility of identifying patients through diagnostic services or treatment on the basis of IMA data, the calculation of the overall costs of care is made impossible. Endometriosis is an easily recognizable pathology: women have abnormal pain during menstruation. There is no reason to believe that the training of gynaecologists is not adequate and that they do not treat this pathology properly. Some women who started taking the pill at the age of 16 or 18 said that before taking the pill, they had very painful menstruations. It was actually the pill that treated those pains. When stopping the pill, for example, for a desire for pregnancy, this is often where the disease reveals itself and develops. Five to ten per cent of women could be affected. These women are usually already in contact with a fertility service, which is not always able to help them have children.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic135x.u58	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. I see you're familiar with the subject. Nevertheless, some of the questions I have asked remain unanswered. You gave me a percentage at European or global level, as I asked the question in relation to our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic135x.u59	The same applies to our country!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic135x.u60	So we can transpose that to 5% or 10%! In view of all this, is awareness-raising planned or should not a study be carried out to try to improve this problem and anticipate it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic135x.u61	Normally, treating physicians and gynaecologists are very alert for this disease. The fact is known for young girls. In literature, this is called a Mittelschmerz. It was a German doctor who made the diagnosis. Mittelschmerz is pain during ovulation and menstruation. Thanks to the anamnesis, it can be inferred that this is the case and an ultrasound is sufficient to make the diagnosis. It's really not very difficult.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic135x.u62	I know this disease very well. It's called 'chocolate kyste'!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic135x.u63	That's it! And in the gut too!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic135x.u64	In your knees too! Some women have their knees rules every month!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic135x.u65	Madam President, Minister, I would like to come back to a subject that we discussed last November, namely the standards for the accreditation of services working with emergency medical assistance in emergency areas. At the time, I reminded you that a Ministerial Circular on the Continuity of Emergency Medical Assistance Missions in Emergency Areas provided that the Minister of Public Health, in consultation with the Minister of the Interior, should set standards for the accreditation of services that collaborate in emergency medical assistance. In response to my question then, you informed me that you had asked your administration and the National Emergency Medical Relief Council to prepare, in consultation with the sector, a road map in this area. You told me that the Minister of the Interior would also be involved and that you would meet him on this issue in December 2014. Minister, what is the status of these new accreditation standards? Have you ever been able to draw up a roadmap as you envisaged? If so, can you take stock of it? If not, when is it planned? Has your meeting with the Minister of the Interior been constructive in this regard? What is the outcome of this consultation?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic135x.u66	Mr Senesael, this subject concerns many municipalities and people. This case of emergency medical aid has been for a long time and has had little activity. I have the honour to inform you that the working groups have been established within the National Emergency Medical Relief Council. These working groups were imposed by the plenary session of the National Council on a very tight timetable. I asked for a roadmap, but with a very tight schedule, and not a Greek calendar! Each of these groups is to report every two months on the progress of its work in the plenary session of the National Council. Each group is expected to submit a final report and an opinion at the beginning of October. In order to ensure compliance with this tight timetable, I have asked my administration to provide assistance within the working groups and the necessary support to the secretariat of the National Council, so that the reports and opinions can be consolidated very quickly in a comprehensive opinion. As a follow-up to my consultation with my colleague the Minister of the Interior, Mr Jambon, I can inform you that the interior administration is also helping and supporting these working groups. In short, a very constructive will surrounds this issue. The wish of my colleague from the Interior and myself is to arrive as quickly as reasonably possible at an opinion and a well-founded vision for the future of urgent medical aid. There's cooperation in the government!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic135x.u67	Madam President, Minister, thank you. I see that since November, positive steps have been taken. These working groups were established; a deadline was set in October. Your administration and that of the Minister of the Interior will support it. In any case, I note your willingness to complete this matter within time limits which you consider reasonable. I will then allow myself to come back in October to know the result – I hope – of the work that has been done.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic135x.u68	Madam President, Minister, on 25 February, the WHO, noting a resurgence of the epidemic, called on European countries to step up measles vaccination. Last year, 644 cases were reported in the United States. Also in Europe, 22 000 cases have been detected since 2014. These cases were found mainly in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Georgia or Russia, but also closer to us, Italy and Germany. In Germany, between October 2014 and February 2015, 583 cases were reported. Unfortunately, an 18-month-old baby died last February. The debate on compulsory measles vaccination has since been revived. Measles cases decreased by 50% between 2013 and 2014, but current epidemics threaten the goal of eradicating measles in Europe by the end of 2015. In Belgium, the vaccination rate is 92% for the first dose of MMR (measles, rubella and mumps vaccine) and 85% for the second dose. The lower percentage for the second dose increases the risk of infection for higher age groups. Minister, can you confirm the number of people who were vaccinated in Belgium in 2014? Does the Higher Council of Health plan to give new advice to the communities responsible for prevention in terms of vaccination? Should this prevention be strengthened? As in Germany, should the debate on the obligation to vaccination against measles be revived in Belgium?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic135x.u69	Minister, as my colleague has just pointed out, it seems that since the beginning of 2014, some 22,149 cases of measles have been recorded in 7 countries on the European continent. This has led the World Health Organisation to launch a call for medical staff and parents to speed up the vaccination of age groups at risk and thus try to stop measles outbreaks in European countries. As a reminder, it is a highly contagious viral disease that can cause, among other things, serious respiratory or neurological diseases, such as pneumonia and sometimes fatal encephalitis. For example, on 18 February last, an 18-month-old baby died in Berlin after having contracted measles. Minister, can you tell us how many cases of measles have been reported in Belgium during 2014? Is this figure up, down, or constant compared to previous years? What measures are being taken to maintain vigilance at the highest level in relation to this disease and to encourage vaccination?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic135x.u70	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, vaccination is the responsibility of the Communities. I therefore do not have the figures for the vaccination rate for 2014. Normally, it should be around 95%. I've consulted with the Supreme Council of Health. New advice on measles is planned for the end of this year. There is a worrying anti-vaccination movement in general inspired by a lack of knowledge of beneficial effects and misinformation on certain side effects. Two initiatives of my services are to be mentioned. Firstly, the Belgian Bioethics Committee gives an opinion on the right to impose compulsory vaccination and the right to refuse compulsory vaccination. You know that only polio vaccination is mandatory in Belgium. Next, the Higher Council of Health is currently drafting a series of FAQs to correct a series of misunderstandings and misinformation about vaccines in general. In 2014, 77 cases of measles were reported. Nearly half came out when a home went to day care with children who were still too young to be vaccinated. In 2013, 43 cases were reported. During the period 2011-2012, Belgium also experienced a measles outbreak with a total of 784 cases. It's always in the crèches that it starts. The incidence for Belgium has been estimated at seven cases per million inhabitants, which means that one of the World Health Organization's indicators to consider the elimination of the disease, which is equivalent to less than one case per million inhabitants, is not achieved. Nevertheless, the vaccination rate for Belgium with the first dose against measles, mumps and rubella exceeds 95%. This is an indispensable condition for achieving elimination. The results were also published in the PSI Annual Report. It is true that we must remain very vigilant. However, it is necessary to vaccinate at two times: first, about thirteen months, then at the age of twelve for a booster. Both doses are necessary to be immunized. Here we talk about babies who are too young to be vaccinated, but they often have siblings. Hence the need for effective vaccination to prevent cases from occurring. When they make themselves known, there's always a home. We will not vaccinate beyond the WHO recommended age limit.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic135x.u71	I thank the Minister for her very precise and detailed answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic135x.u72	Madam Minister, thank you for your clear, precise and detailed response and for your vigilance in this regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic135x.u73	Madam President, Minister, you know as I do, there are coloured lenses to change the colour of the eyes according to the day of the week, lenses with a vertical iris to have cat eyes. It is a fashion effect which, unfortunately, is not without consequence! Indeed, the use of these fancy lenses is becoming more widespread and they are completely out of the control of ophthalmologists and opticians since they are sold without any hygiene advice and sometimes even on the internet. This is why the Supreme Council of Health (SHC) warns and wishes to inform patients who leave the traditional purchasing network about the risks. Let's talk about the risks! Young people, unaware of the danger, exchange coloured lentils from week to week, sleep with them after an evening or do not really rinse them or sometimes with tap water. I think there is a real misinformation about these risks. Besides, with these lenses, the eye lacks oxygen. The damage caused by these lenses, which do not meet the same quality standards as corrective lenses, is multiple: slight discomfort, repeated infections, etc. The Supreme Council of Health is calling for an awareness campaign consisting of posters among beauticians, hairdressers, opticians and other sectors. The CSS also requests that the sale of coloured lentils remain in the hands of a professional and recommends, in addition, an informed consent document to inform the consumer, who would sign it following the purchase of the lentils. Finally, the ideal would be to directly target the target audience and thus inform young people through schools. But on this last point, it is not under federal jurisdiction. Minister, are you aware of this problem and, if so, have you met with the sector? What does it show? Will you take into account the recommendations of the Supreme Council of Health regarding the distribution of posters and the introduction of a consent document? Can you tell me if other measures are also being taken or planned? Do you have any contacts with the Minister of Education to possibly establish information in schools on this subject?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic135x.u74	Mrs Cassart, thank you for your question. The European directives on medical devices apply only to devices which have therapeutic or diagnostic purposes, which is not the case with fancy contact lenses. In the European Union, lentils are ordinary products which are subject to general product safety and consumer protection legislation. However, the European Union is aware of the possible special health hazard posed by this type of lentils. A revision of the Medical Devices Guidelines is currently under way. It is expected that the three current directives will soon be recast into two regulations, one on medical devices and the other on in vitro diagnostic medical devices. As it stands, the draft regulation on medical devices provides that although they are not medical devices, fancy contact lenses will fall within its scope. It will normally be the same with other devices such as implantable devices for purely aesthetic purposes. Belgium supports the amendments to the current regulations. As a result, in the present state of our legislation, which is merely the transposition of European law in this field, the contact lenses of fantasy fall within the competence of the SPF Economy of my colleague Mr Peeters and not of the SPF Public Health. Given the division of powers, this question could also be addressed to Deputy Prime Minister Peeters. But half the answer will be the same – the fact that the European regulation is being revised.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic135x.u75	Madam Minister, thank you. This is challenging. The problem is present and needs to be addressed. I understand that you are telling me that this is a matter of economics and not health. It's not available from ophthalmologists, but it's sold on the internet. I think we need a dialogue between you and Minister Peeters. The aim is to find a solution, for me, as a parliamentarian, whatever the competent minister. Perhaps I will also ask him about this issue in a while.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic135x.u76	Ms. Muyle points out to me that she asked the question two weeks ago. Minister, when a question has already been asked, do not hesitate to simply refer to the answer given earlier.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic135x.u77	Please excuse me. I didn't see she was laid. Perhaps this is due to the fact that once the question is written, it sometimes takes a little time to file it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic135x.u78	It has been added to the agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic135x.u79	In this case, is the matter not referred back by the services?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic135x.u80	It is the minister who decides because there may possibly be a new element.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic135x.u81	I'm so sorry. The aim was not to go back to a question that had already been asked.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic135x.u82	It is good to remind the minister that this can be done, especially when there are 50-70 questions on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic135x.u83	Of course, when there are ten, it's less serious!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic135x.u84	Madam Minister, Mr Dedry has already asked a question about this in response to a press release from the VBT that there would be a shortage of dentists. The figures I have requested with a written question show the opposite. Both the number of visas delivered and the number of RIZIV numbers is much higher than the quota. For the RIZIV numbers last year it was almost double the quota allowed. The figures do not distinguish between dentists with a Belgian or with a foreign diploma. In the meantime, I have asked for these figures, because apparently foreign dentists can settle in unlimited numbers in our country. In addition to the number, there is still the problem of language, because it is crucial that dentists are able to speak the patient's language. Think, for example, of a pregnant woman who would need an RX dental examination. Furthermore, your reply to Mrs Dedry showed that in Flanders 70 students have started dental training, whereas in Wallonia there would be seven hundred. Another aspect is the planning committee, which, through the feminisation and ageing of the profession, has put the activity at 0.65. We are getting signals from the field of work that this figure would be out of date, as women work more full-time and older people continue to work full-time for longer. On the other hand, care complexity increases, which in turn reduces the number of patients per care provider. It is an open door kicking in, but a land register that maps out all the parameters will be conclusive: we are looking forward with the associations to its arrival. Is it true that foreign dentists, as well as French-speaking Belgian dentists, can settle freely here, so not limited in number, and that they are not subject to quota at all? How do you reconcile that with the quota imposed on our Flemish dentists? What is the current language rule to settle in Flanders? Is there even a language rule? In what way will it be verified whether foreign and French dentists are sufficiently powerful to establish themselves in Flanders? Is there a trial? Is it binding? Do you think it is appropriate for dentists who settle in Flanders to be powerful in the Netherlands? Secondly, do you have any idea how many Flemish dentists work across the border in the Netherlands? This information is also important in order to be able to interpret the figures. Thirdly, you said the dentist's cadastral records are up after the doctors'. In doing so, I asked a question about the level of activity, which is now 0.65. Will it be adjusted in the light of the reasons I have quoted? Will the land register take into account the number of inactive dentists, which was estimated at 224 at 9 027? If so, how will that happen? Will you take into account the number of dental assistants now active to adjust the number of dentists? How will this be charged? Do you have any idea how many dental assistants are employed in our country by now? In the meantime, accompanying measures have been taken for general practitioners, such as Impulseo. Why are such measures not taken for dentists? Are there any plans on the table? Has that power been transferred to the Länder in the meantime? Do you know any plans at that level? I shall then come to my final question. How will you ensure that the quota is obtained from the dentists? Do you, as for the doctors, require an entrance exam, as already exists in Flanders? Will this be organised at the start or at the end of the coming academic year?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic135x.u85	Madam President, I am deleting a little in my reply, because initially the questions from Mrs Van Camp, Mrs Detiège and Mrs Jadin were combined. I had a very long answer, since they had asked other questions about the same problem. It doesn't seem bad to me to exchange as much information as possible. Mrs Van Camp, the quota system determines the quotas of the Belgian graduates, both French and Dutch speakers, who have access to the practical placements which make it possible to obtain the special professional title of dentist. This means that dentists with a diploma obtained in another country who obtained their recognition through Belgium are not subject to quota. It may be as many as the number of applications received if the conditions laid down in the European Directive 2013/55 are met. The special professional titles of dentist are awarded without geographical conditions for the exercise and are valid for the whole of Belgium, even though they have been signed since the sixth state reform by the Minister representing a language community. Since Flanders is still a part of Belgium, any dentist with recognition can practice his profession there, regardless of the community to which the university belongs which has awarded the basic diploma. There is currently no language test in Flanders to establish itself as a dentist. There is no such test in Wallonia. In the context of the transposition of the European Directive 2013/55, a reflection is currently taking place on the language conditions to settle in Belgium as a healthcare practitioner, and on the possibility of setting up a language test for foreign healthcare professionals wishing to settle in Belgium. That reflection is still going on. We have no data that enables us to know the professional activity abroad. The PlanCAD dentists will make it possible to get a picture of that number, through the number of dentists that leave no trace of economic activity in Belgium. That means they don't get a job or a replacement income. Since it is about results of work that take a long time and all these results have to be validated by the Planning Committee on Medical Supply, we expect those results at the beginning of the second semester of 2015, let's say after the summer. These results will make it possible to know the activity rate, not only in men and women, but also by age group and by region. The purpose of the land register is, of course, to quantify the volume of activity. The calculations shall be based on the activity volumes recorded in the context of the RIZIV performance. You have asked if you will know which dentists are not active. That's easy. The same goes for the doctors. We know that by cross-checking the data. If there are no RIZIV mappings, then they are also not active. I assume a dentist who's active will pass that on to the RIZIV anyway. I hope so. Dental assistants may only carry out administrative work and not engage in a health profession. They are therefore not included in the federal database of healthcare professionals. So we do not have data on their number and their activity. If necessary, in the assumptions underlying the development of the scenarios, we can see a reduction in the administrative workload due to the presence of these dental assistants. This power has been delegated to the Länder. Since the sixth state reform, therefore, I cannot actually take initiatives to take such a measure for dentists. These matters are also discussed in the inter-ministerial committee. As the discussions are under way, no one can provide precise information on what is currently on the table. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the balance of the implementation of the quota is ‐34 units in 2013 in the Flemish Community and -15 units in the French Community. This can be found on page 74 of the Annual Report of the Planning Committee on Medical Supply of 2013. In view of the number of entries, i.e. 70 in Flanders and 700 in Wallonia, there will be significant overruns in five years' time when these people are going to be active for the next period. The question is not as simple as one would think. The French citizens who come to Belgium to study in order to avoid the numerus clausus in their country have become so numerous that the Walloon-Brussels Federation has added dentistry to the list of studies covered by the Decree on non-stayers. In view of the number of internship plans submitted in Belgium, it appears that these nationals come only to study and that, after they have obtained their diploma in Belgium, they return to their country to work there. The holders of the Master's degree in Dentistry do not have to do an internship in France in order to practise their profession; they can get to work immediately. All the more reason to have your teeth taken care of here, I believe. As far as questions on the shortage of dentists are concerned, the establishment of a register of active professionals is a long-term work, because this must be done precisely. The PlanCAD project is made concrete by linking the data of the federal database of health professionals, the so-called land register, to the data of the RIZIV on reimbursement, the data of the National Social Security Office, the data of the National Social Security Office of the Provincial and Local Public Services (RSZPPO) and the data of the National Social Insurance Institute of the Self-employed. These links must be made at each stream of data. The links are of course anonymous. They require the agreement of the Health Sectoral Committee of the Privacy Committee. In 2013, the PlanCAD project was launched, both for doctors and dentists. In consultation with the working groups of the doctors and dentists and with the experts of the RIZIV, the Planning Cell has drawn up the list of possible variables for the linking. In autumn 2013, applications for admission to the Health Sector Committee of the Privacy Commission and for the linking of data were submitted by the Crossroads Bank of Social Security. In June 2014, the administration had the linked, anonymous data. During the summer months of 2014, the data could be formatted and its quality could be evaluated. Then they were also linked to all the data I mentioned. At present, the administration is preparing the register of doctors for each of the thirty-six medical specialties. New quotas need to be drawn up for the year 2021, as you know before the start of the next academic year. Afterwards, the administration will examine the register of active dentists. This is more urgent because the training will last seven years and then six years. The quotas for dentists are not expected until June 2016, so there is a year difference. At a later stage, the analysis results of the linked data will be used to draw up workforce evolution scenarios. In order to assess the future supply to health professionals, we must, of course, have knowledge of the current state of play and of developments. On the basis of this work, it will be possible to determine the quotas corresponding to the real situation on the labour market, also taking into account the evolution of care needs, as has often been said here. In 2013, the Dentistry Council issued an opinion on the dental assistant, which is something else than the dentist's assistant. This opinion addressed a number of aspects, namely the powers of the assistant, the duration of the training and the planning of the necessary number of dental care assistants. The training for this new health profession is different, as the dental care assistants should be allowed to perform certain performances. However, this training is not a federal competence but a competence of the Communities. I insist that the sixth state reform on health professions and on the fragmentation of competences has not been a gift. It makes it all extra complicated. Nevertheless, at federal level, we will develop the dynamic register, both for doctors and for dentists. The major debate on quotas will then have to be launched in the Planning Committee, in which the Länder are represented. It is important to know that the Länder are also represented on the Planning Committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic135x.u86	Madam Secretary, thank you for your detailed reply. I am glad that our party is not the only one in which there is a feeling that the sixth state reform has made matters extremely difficult, not only in terms of public health.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic135x.u87	This question came to us from practice a few weeks ago. For a few months now, the changeover has proved to be or has been a major problem with the computer system of the mut400, which has caused or continues to cause payouts to nurses. Several nurses have been in financial trouble as a result. The problems appeared to arise mainly in the case of disbursements via the third-payer system mut400. Despite many attempts to address this via the VBZV and the RIZIV, the problems continued to drag. We were also told that the communication about this was really inadequate because of the mutuality. Software problems are inevitable, but should not lead to any late payment to those working with the third party payment system. After all, the system is just being promoted by the RIZIV and the government. However, if there are problems, users appear to be the victims in practice. The mutuality has six weeks to pay out, which is a long period of time. Software problems should therefore be resolved within that time. If that is not the case, a plan B should come into force which guarantees nurses a guaranteed income, an income to which they are entitled. For example, temporary switching to a paper handling could be helpful, but many nurses also saw their shipments rejected because the mutuality apparently had not provided the correct information on the format of the file. After six weeks, however, the nurse may claim any residual material, calculated from the first day following the expiry of the payment period. The nurse shall recover those interest from the insurance institution concerned by means of a registered letter stating in detail the amount claimed. However, these residuals represent nothing compared to the cash problem that nurses experience due to late payouts. Are you or were you aware of the problem? What exactly caused it? What do you propose to avoid such problems in the future? Is a plan B provided for or is it mandatory to guarantee legitimate income in the event of software problems by another means? Are you thinking of increasing the amount of delay left to cover, for example, the cost of that registered shipment? Mut400 would have worked with man and power to solve the problems and to eliminate the backwardness. Then how come the problems have dragged on or dragged on for more than three months? What do you think can be improved about communication? In what way do you intend to achieve this in concrete terms?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic135x.u88	Madam President, Mrs Van Camp, I have indeed been given indications that the Landsbond of Liberal Mutualities would suffer from a delay in payment and this in certain cases. Some social insured persons and some health care providers have raised these problems. Of course, we have also asked for explanations, and the Liberal Mutualities Landsbond has launched a completely different ICT platform for all applications as of 1 January 2015, all of a sudden for all applications. This transition was prepared for months and the supervisory authorities were informed in advance of the changeover on 1 January 2015. The accuracy and speed of payments by the sickness funds is indeed very important, on the one hand for the social security funds to keep the financial threshold for access to health care as low as possible and, of course, for the providers of care to be reimbursed in good time. It is of the utmost importance that the third party payment system operates well and is accurate at operational level. The current rules do not provide for specific reimbursement periods for certificates of assistance provided after consultation of the general practitioner once submitted to the sickness fund. For the third party payment scheme, specific payment periods are provided for, mainly agreed and determined in the national agreements at the RIZIV between various groups of health care providers and health insurance funds. I have therefore instructed the health insurance authorities, in particular the National Institute for Sickness and Invalidity Insurance and the Health Insurance Office and the National Associations of Health Insurance Funds, to carry out an investigation at the Landsbond van liberale mutualeen, in order to clarify and clarify the problems mentioned here. I think we need to identify the problem if it has not been resolved by now. In any case, this should be able to teach us something about any childhood diseases that could lead to the conversion of an ICT platform. It should not be, but it is happening and we are trying to draw lessons from it for the future. You are talking about a plan B, but you also know that switching to a whole new ICT platform is already an enormous amount of work; if you want to set up a parallel paper circuit, that is not really a plan B. When switching to a new ICT platform, care must be taken in advance to ensure that there are as few childhood diseases as possible. Apparently something went wrong there. The explanation of the mutuality in question is what he is, but I have asked for an objective check-up by the RIZIV and the Control Service.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic135x.u89	Madam Minister, we are very pleased that these problems are being taken seriously. I am sure that this will be appreciated in the field of work, especially as the research will be used to monitor earlier errors in future changeovers. I also remember that we need to reconsider whether the repayment period can also be applied outside the third-party payment system.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic135x.u90	Madam Minister, at the end of January, the new national agreement on dental sickness funds appeared in the Belgian Official Journal. In the paragraph on the correction measures, I read the following: "Expenditure increases as a result of extensions of the third-party payment scheme and quota overruns as set out in the Royal Decree of 19/8/2011 will not give rise to correction measures and will be included in the technical estimates which form the basis for the partial budgetary objective for the following year. I myself, together with the professional groups, find it difficult to imagine that there would be a discrepancy in the income of dentists between the parts of the country. Then where does the budget for the overrun come from?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic135x.u91	Mrs Van Camp, I can only inform you that the Dutch-speaking dental trade association, during the consultation for a new national agreement, the dento-mut, has called for that safeguard clause to be mentioned. The first objective of the reference to the provision is to encourage all those involved in the application of the Royal Decree on the planning of the dental offer to apply it accurately and correctly. At present, more students start dental training in Wallonia than stated in the royal decree mentioned above. It has already been mentioned here today that this is a problem for which I would like to find a solution in consultation. I have therefore proposed that an entry test should also be set up for dentists for the first year, as with us, in order, among other things, to prevent additional financial resources being found to compensate for any overruns. I have already asked in an interview today what the 700 dentists will do in Wallonia in five years' time. There may be a small shortage now, but 700 dentists, which I believe will lead to a pauvreté diplomée.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic135x.u92	Nothing says they'll be 700 at that time.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic135x.u93	Even if there were only 500 or 600, there are less than 15% of those who started who won't. With a dentist's degree, you can't do any profession. As a doctor, the possibilities are wider, one can even do politics! Dentists too, of course. Apart from bluffing, dentists are a little limited in their profession. You have to call a cat a cat.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic135x.u94	Madam Secretary, I do not know if I am entirely reassured by your reply. You are, of course, assuming that there will be no problems and that there will be no problem. Let's hope so with you. However, we fear the opposite. At that time we will look at where the budget comes from and what solutions you will then work out. We'll follow up on the file.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic135x.u95	Madam President, Madam Minister, if you still have Flemish proverbs in store, let them come. My question dates from a week before your very interesting interview in De Tijd. A number of questions are therefore dated, but nothing prevents us from having the debate here again. The development of medical apps that have been clinically tested is still in its infancy. There are a lot of fitness apps, like the step counters and heart rate counters. These are apps that people love to pay for, but which are not clinically tested and therefore do not offer added value yet, or offer only dubious added value. Meanwhile, the University of Hasselt and the Genk Hospital have already entered into collaboration with private companies to do full research, so that the apps can also be used for, for example, measuring heart rhythm disorders. The Belgian scientists are also pioneers in this research, something we can be very proud of. The University of Hasselt is now investigating how it can put that app on the market. In such apps or when they are launched, it is important to coordinate with doctors as well as to sensitise users. Also important are the willingness to pay and the link with a possible refund by the RIZIV. Madam Secretary, that is why I have the following questions for you. What is your view on the development of medical apps? Could they be an efficient tool to improve public health? Do you intend to organise an information campaign with doctors and specialists on the development of these apps and even on their prescription in the future? If so, how do you intend to proceed? Are you considering entering a label to make it clear to users that it is effectively about validated medical apps?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic135x.u96	Minister, in recent years there have been the emergence and multiplication of mobile applications, but also of connected devices dedicated to health: scales measuring body mass, t-shirts recording heart rhythm, pedometers or connected bracelets; there are many examples. All these connected gadgets allow the transmission of a set of data to the smartphone, tablet and computer of their owner. This data is collected and synthesized in various applications that allow the user to access several types of information, graphs, etc. All this gives him information about his state of health. Some call this trend'self-measured'. With the arrival of smartwatches on the market, but also with the integration, by the various manufacturers, of this type of applications directly into their devices, we imagine that this phenomenon will continue to grow in the years to come. The e-health business is growing. The European Commission estimates that the value of this market will exceed EUR 17 billion in 2017. I will therefore ask you the following questions. What about the protection and marketing of these data in Belgium? Is there adequate regulation? There are many privacy risks. I think, for example, of the insurance companies, tempted to buy this type of data, but also of some companies that could target their advertising even more. An employer can also monitor the health of their employee by offering them a connected bracelet. The accuracy of this technology is not always optimal. In addition, nothing can replace the opinion of a medical expert. What measures can be taken to prevent the inappropriate use of this type of technology? Are there any studies in Belgium analysing this type of application?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic135x.u97	Madam President, Mrs Hufkens, Mr Friart, it is De Tijd himself who wanted to dedicate a hangover to this. Since I have spoken about this before, they have contacted me. I thought that was a great opportunity for an introduction. I am completely in love with the exciting technological evolution and the development of telemedicine. It will be an opportunity for medicine, for the follow-up of patients, for considering the patient as an active partner in monitoring his health. We shall therefore have an instrument to this end. We must, of course, be careful about this. As you know, the government agreement stipulates that we will encourage the development and targeted reimbursement of telemedicine as an alternative to conventional care. I also refer to the eHealth Action Plan, which was drawn up in 2013 and runs until 2018. During the discussion on mHealth, it was decided that it might be a little too early to include mHealth in the action plan. We are barely two years away and we must take the initiative to add a chapter on mHealth. By the way, the "m2' in mHealth stands for "m3' and not Maggie. You ask whether the apps can be an efficient tool to improve public health. Now, the potential of mHealth continues. mHealth may improve communication between the care provider and the patient, but it reduces the need for an appointment with the care provider. Among other things, the department of Cardiology of the ZOL, the Oost-Limburg Hospital, has projects with patients and gives them a device with an app. Of course, there is still a double check. An attempt is made to determine the difference between the measurement received and the measurement made during the consultation. This increases the patient's involvement and contributes to the necessary administrative simplification for all actors in health care. However, it is also important that we know that the data is measured by calibrated devices and that the signal transmitted is good and is in line with reality. However, we must also, in all cases, pay attention to privacy and the scientific accuracy of applications, and we must work on the development of a reimbursement model. This means that if necessary, the signal will be transferred to your doctor, cardiologist or paid person to analyze this signal and that it will not be sent to a circuit where everyone can know that you have symptoms of cardiac arrhythmia. With regard to the repayment model, it is necessary to create a framework to which applications must comply. That is what it is important to do in the first place. This framework will probably also give a label to certain tools. I agree with you that a targeted information campaign can be conducted and that the patient, for example after electroshock to prevent arrhythmias, will be given the choice to go to the cardiologist three or four times over a year or to send the signal. If there are no problems, they will not go. We must, of course, arrange a remuneration for sending out the signal and, above all, for the analysis and for the follow-up given to it. It's booming business, but we really need to make a good distinction, based on evidence-based studies that are currently running, whether this can contribute to our health and involve the patient more actively. However, it may also be a bit of spielerei that may also exist.... where certain things are measured that may be pleasant to know, but which are not necessary to measure health.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic135x.u98	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. I'm glad you're following developments very closely. I told you, I found the interview in De Tijd very interesting. You may have read in De Standaard today that apps that can contribute to mental health care are already being thought of, for example, to stop smoking. Above all, I remember that the relevance and scientific usefulness must be proven. This is also important for our group, especially if we want to make a refund. Attention to privacy is also important. In the coming months or years, therefore, we will certainly be following up on what the impact will be.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic135x.u99	Minister, thank you for your answers. I think we need to keep an eye on the evolution of these technologies, the use that will be made of them and the drifts that may occur.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic135x.u100	Minister, my question concerns the distribution of iodine within the perimeter of nuclear power plants. In the light of the recent incidents affecting some nuclear power plants, the Supreme Council of Health believes that better protection of the population would be necessary. Stable iodine intake associated with sheltering is a means of effectively protecting the thyroid from the effects of releases of radioactive iodine that may occur in the event of a nuclear accident. Currently, every citizen living in an area within 10 km of the power plants can benefit from iodine tablets. According to a press article, the Supreme Council of Health insists on the development and planning of a rapid distribution strategy at distances of up to 100 km and more from the site of the accident. Therefore, Madam Minister, can you give me your position on the opinion of the Supreme Council of Health?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic135x.u101	This is a fairly technical answer, Mr. Gustin. I have read the opinion No. 9275 of the Supreme Council of Health, which was published on 4 March 2015. The objective is obviously to learn from the Fukushima accident and other serious incidents. Pending the global report on crisis management in the event of a large-scale nuclear accident, the Higher Council published a first partial opinion on the protection of the thyroid gland from radiation-induced cancers. The Federal Nuclear Emergency Plan is currently being updated by the National Crisis Centre in collaboration with the Federal Nuclear Control Agency, including the distribution and administration of iodine tablets. Stakeholders, including the Public Health FPS, are examining the various aspects of the plan, including the size of the emergency planning areas, within the various working groups. In this process, scientific, strategic and, of course, operational elements are taken into account, because this has to be done quickly. With regard to the size of the emergency planning areas, it is important to stress that the geographical areas in which the protection measures are de facto deployed do not always correspond or are limited to the territories in which the measures have been prepared to the maximum extent. There are differences between response areas and emergency planning areas. We expect a new version of an emergency plan by the end of 2015. As you know, the Crisis Centre is the responsibility of the Minister of the Interior. But of course, my services are involved because it concerns public health.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic135x.u102	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. I am pleased to learn that a process of updating is under way. But I believe that we must respond quickly to the concerns of our fellow citizens. In my commune, there are people who are in the area of 10 km, others not. In a country like Switzerland, I think it is an area of 50 km that is taken into account. It is above all a matter of clarity and people must be reassured. In fact, I think there are stocks in pharmacies that are within a 20 km radius. All this is a little nebulous for people living in a very close area of a nuclear power plant. I am counting on you, as you said earlier, to ensure that there is good cooperation with the Minister of the Interior to perhaps try to clarify this situation as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic135x.u103	That's what we do.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic135x.u104	I suggested that it be all of Belgium because with 100 km between Chooz, Doel and Tihange, we cover everything.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic135x.u105	Madam Chair, thank you for your suggestion.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic135x.u106	Madam Secretary, normally it is a privilege of the doctors to prescribe medicines. This has changed since last year. Since January 2014, midwives have been able to prescribe medicines under certain conditions. Another KB also regulates the list of medicines which may be prescribed autonomously by the midwife. In Belgium, many conditions are attached to this. In order to prescribe the medicinal products, a specific application for approval should be submitted to the Public Health Office. For example, the midwife must be adequately trained to prescribe medicines. For midwifes who obtained their professional title before 1 October 2014, additional training of at least 30 hours is required. Midwives must also have a specific RIZIV registration number. In this way the prescribed medicines can be delivered by a pharmacist and health insurance intervenes in the costs. If a midwife has an approval and an appropriate RIZIV number, he or she can order a prescription booklet from the RIZIV. Many steps must therefore be taken. How many midwifes have applied for recognition in Belgium in the past year? I would have liked to have a division by province, if that's possible. How many midwifes have already received additional training? How many have already had basic training? How many midwifes requested a specific registration number from the RIZIV? How many prescription booklets were already distributed by the RIZIV to midwifes?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic135x.u107	Madam President, I was right here thinking about whether, now that we have all made doctors, we should also turn the midwife into something else. After all, there are already midwifes, although there are not many. In the context of gender neutrality, we must work in the two directions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic135x.u108	Maybe we should talk about midwifes?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic135x.u109	We'll set up a competition to find a name for the male midwife.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic135x.u110	Midwives have decided to continue to call themselves midwives. They agreed to this name.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic135x.u111	At the moment, the Planning Committee on Medical Offer cannot comment on the number of midwifes registered in 2014. This will not be possible until May 2015. The figures for 2013 are already there. At that time there were 9 522 registered midwives in Belgium. However, I do not have a division per province. Since 14 January 2014, it is legally possible for midwifes to prescribe certain medicines. The legislator has effectively made a difference between midwifes who obtained a diploma before 1 October 2014 and midwifes who obtained their diploma after 1 October 2014. If they have obtained their diploma before that date, they must undergo additional training before they can obtain the authorisation. The additional training shall be organized by or in agreement with an educational institution which meets the conditions laid down by the Communities for the organization of the Bachelor's training in midwife or nursing. The additional training shall include at least 30 effective hours on specialised applied pharmacology related to the specific occupation of midwife and the list of medicinal products that may be prescribed by midwife. Midwifes who have obtained their diploma after 1 October may, on the basis of their basic training, obtain authorisation to prescribe medicinal products provided that their basic training meets the necessary requirements. The midwife training programme must include a course of general pharmacology and a course of at least 30 hours of specialised applied pharmacology related to the specific occupation of the midwife and the list of medicinal products that midwife may prescribe. There is also a course of teratology and a course of toxicology. Teratology studies the possibility of teratogenic effects by prescribing medicinal products, i.e. medicinal products that may act, immediately or later, on the foetus and on pregnancy. The Annex to the midwife's diploma shall testify to the similarity of the programme with those obligations and shall indicate that the holder has passed the part of the examination relating to the specialised pharmacology applied. So far, some 50 midwifes have applied to the FPS Public Health to obtain the authorisation to prescribe medicines. A division by province is not yet possible, as the applications still have to be dealt with, and this will take place from April 2015. Before a midwife can apply for a specific RIZIV registration number and a prescription booklet, the midwife must have an authorisation to prescribe medicines issued by the Public Health Office. This is similar to the rules for doctors, who must also have a diploma and an order number before they can order a prescription book. Given that the applications for prescription will not be dealt with until April 2015, there are currently no midwifes who have requested a RIZIV registration number, let alone a prescription book, from the RIZIV. The first step is recognition through the diploma, then registration with the RIZIV and then the booklets. For doctors, the Order of Doctors still intervenes. Those who obtained their doctor's degree were looking for a Chinese volunteer to go from one department to another in Brussels, with the last stop being the printer of the RIZIV. Those who were lucky enough to do so had their first prescription book in their hands within two weeks, which was of course gold.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic135x.u112	I thought those books were delivered by box.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic135x.u113	One has to pay it to the RIZIV. I ordered ten books the first time. It's in a box. Then one has to place one's order every year. It is also necessary to order enough, because it is difficult to order more afterwards. We have had questions here about the lack of regulatory booklets.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic135x.u114	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. I understand that you are not yet in a position to reply fully, because the procedure for obtaining a RIZIV number is still in progress. As far as ordering prescription booklets is concerned, some medical syndicates look down on the fact that other health care providers are allowed to prescribe. I'm not sure you have an opinion on that. Should this be extended or not? In the home care sector, too, there is a demand, for example, for ointments to be prescribed for wounds. My opinion is that the procedure should be in the hands of a doctor, who will also keep the patient's file, otherwise it will be difficult, in the long run, to coordinate everything, unless we have a proper medical record.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic135x.u115	We will return to such issues with the evolution of the health professions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic135x.u116	Joined Questions No 3051 by Mr Brecht Vermeulen and No 3192 by Mrs Anne Dedry are postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic135x.u117	Madam President, Minister, the Foundation against Cancer and the Flemish Institute for Health Promotion and Disease Prevention have been warning about the lack of increases in tobacco excise duties at the beginning of 2015. At the beginning of January, the pack of rolling tobacco increased by 10 cents and the price of the pack of cigarettes did not change. This allowed the sector giant, Philip Morris, to increase its Marlboro package by 30 cents without having a negative impact on its consumption. Luk Joossens, of the Cancer Foundation, speaks of "financial gift" made to cigar makers. We are talking about a €80 million shortfall in tax revenue. The small increases in recent years have only slightly affected the decline in tobacco consumption. There is evidence that the increase in tobacco prices on a point-by-point and above all, is currently the most effective measure to reduce the number of smokers. Moreover, according to a study published in 2011, 56% of Belgians are for an increase of half a euro per pack of cigarettes. I assume they're the ones who don't smoke. In order to make it clearer and, above all, to have new elements of answer on this matter of great concern, I would like to ask you three questions, Minister. Do you confirm the advanced amount of 80 million tax revenue shortfalls? In January, in the same commission, you spoke of an increase in excise duties of 20 cents per pack of cigarettes and 45 cents per 50 grams of rolling tobacco. This is good news. Are these measures still relevant? When is their execution planned? Finally, are new preventive measures to combat tobacco consumption under consideration? If so, which ones?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic135x.u118	Mr Friart, the European Directive 40/2014 was adopted in May 2014 and will have to be transposed before May 2016. My services are actively working on this implementation. The many measures planned will improve the protection of the population from the scourge of tobacco. These include strengthening health warnings on cigarette and rolling tobacco packages, strengthening ingredient legislation, banning characterising flavourings, establishing a traceability and safety system to combat illegal trade, and regulating nicotine-based electronic cigarettes. To date, the issue of smoking has not yet been the subject of coordination discussions within government. However, my administration and that of Finance are working together to implement future traceability and security measures. I am aware that the price of tobacco products plays a role in tobacco control. The taxation and fixing of specific and proportional rates of excise duty on tobacco products is a competence of my colleague the Minister of Finance. Since yesterday, we know that this government has not increased taxes on tobacco, and certainly not by the measures we have taken during budgetary control.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic135x.u119	Indeed, Madam Minister, as you say, the price plays a very important role. I hope that in order to achieve a deterrent effect, the government will be able to take certain measures at the level of excise duties in a forthcoming budget review.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic135x.u120	This is likely to take place.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic135x.u121	Mr Friart, we will tell Mr Thiéry that you are in favour of measures against tobacco, given the epic debate we had on the subject last week.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic135x.u122	Part of my question was already answered in the media this week, including by the Minister. I asked this question in response to an article in De Standaard about the study of the sleeping centre of UZ Antwerp, which clearly shows that there is an increasing trend in the use of sleeping drugs by the Fleming. Thirteen percent of the population appear to be using sedatives, whereas in 1997 it was only 6%. The study indicates that there is clearly a habit. After four weeks the sleeping pill turns out to have no effect and it takes as long to fall asleep as before the start of the sleeping medication. It is therefore a street without end, where the medication is systematically increased in the worst case and the patient becomes addicted to it. That is why I would have liked to ask you the following questions. I have already read some of the answers in the press, but you may be able to clarify them here. Has there been any other scientific research on the health risks of sleeping pills? If so, what research and what are the results? Are there general figures on the use of sleeping tablets on prescription in our country? Sleep medication can be purchased on the internet without a prescription. Is this illegal circuit being controlled? Are you prepared to intertwine control in the future? Don't doctors prescribe sleeping tablets too easily to be for the patient's sake? A study of Test Purchasing shows that 94 percent of doctors easily prescribe sleeping pills. Test-Achats also published a list of these doctors. Should physicians be encouraged not to prescribe sleep medication too soon but first try other treatments, such as healthy movement and dietary monitoring? Are you prepared to conduct an information campaign aimed at the specialised sector? I understand that you will do this, that you will indeed launch a campaign aimed at the doctors. However, I would like to hear your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic135x.u123	Madam Minister, I will not repeat what the previous speaker said. In any case, it is very important that the analysis is known. On that point, I share the opinion of my colleague. It is also very important for us to do something about over-consumption of medicines. The subject of my question fits in with that. Test-Achats speaks of quality indicators, to determine how doctors perform their tasks. How do you view the idea of Test-Achats to develop quality indicators in this area? Do you see any other measures to combat over-consumption of sleeping drugs? If so, what measures do you see? Do you intend to better inform doctors about the provision of sleep advice, should the prescription of sleeping drugs not be necessary immediately? Antidepressants should also be limited to what is strictly necessary and should not replace sleeping drugs.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic135x.u124	Madam President, Mrs Detiège will be able to read her answer. Mrs Van Hoof, Mrs Dedry, thank you for your questions. The figures are indeed serious. Reducing the use of psychopharmaceuticals is therefore specifically mentioned in the policy paper. The undesirable effects of benzodiazepines are known. These may include confusion, excessive sedation, sleepiness, more falls, especially in the elderly, memory disturbances, concentration disturbances, mental and physical dependence, withdrawal symptoms after discontinuation of their use and possible accidental or accidental acute intoxication. There are indeed figures on the sale of benzodiazepines in our country. Those figures do not differ much from year to year in the period 2010-2014. Nevertheless, they are very worrying, with an average of about 490 million defined daily doses, and that for a population of 11 million inhabitants, which we can assume they do not take from in the cradle sleeping drugs and benzophaea. So 490 million defined daily doses are taken each year. According to the health survey carried out through interviews in 2013, 13% of the population in Belgium used a sedative during the two weeks preceding the interview. Nevertheless, it is noted that the population does not appear to be using sleeping and tranquilizers since the 2004 and 2013 surveys. In women, use would even have fallen for a while, from 19 % in 2008 to 16 % in 2013. In any case, I still think that this is a high figure. The basic regulation in the current national legislation states that a medicinal product is delivered personally to the patient by an official pharmacist in the pharmacy. In Belgium licensed medicines free of medical prescription can also be offered via the Internet by a publicly opened pharmacy under strict conditions. With regard to the illegal circuit, the Directorate-General for Inspection of the FAGG cooperates with customs. We have recently taken initiatives in this area to increase the monitoring of supply via the Internet. In the past, the FAGG has already withdrawn the most risky sleeping pills from the market and established that the most risky benzodiazepine, namely the known Rohypnol miracle pill, can only be obtained under specified conditions, only in the lowest dose and subject to special prescription. Indeed, studies have already been carried out in our country on the experience of both patients and general practitioners on the prescription of benzodiazepines. This shows, in particular, the expectations of patients. It's actually more of a doctor's requirement. The lack of communication or motivation to transfer this to doctors is an important point of attention. In recent years, the Public Health Office, in cooperation with the RIZIV, has taken various actions to encourage the appropriate use of benzodiazepines and the use of non-medical alternatives. Annual awareness campaigns for the general public were launched via radio, TV spots, posters and leaflets. Training courses and toolbooks for general practitioners and pharmacists were also offered. The formations emphasise the non-medical alternatives and recall the important rules for the adequate use of benzodiazepines, as well as the guidelines to be respected for efficient and effective withdrawal. The information on the latest FOD campaign is available at www.sleepenkalmeringsmiddelen.be. The full history of the campaigns can be found at www.health.belgium.be/benzo. In December, the multidisciplinary scientific body Belgian Psychotropics Expert Platform provided me with a detailed vision paper with an analysis of the problem and with targeted recommendations. This note will soon be available on the website of the FOD VVVL. I am therefore basing myself on this vision paper to support concrete actions, including an e-learning module for the general practitioner on the appropriate prescription of benzochloroethylenes. The use of these medications when dealing with sleeping problems is not only the responsibility of the doctor and the pharmacist, but also of the patient, who must be found willing to invest in non-medical alternatives. I am not basing myself on the study of Test Purchase because its methodology is at least controversial. I rather base myself on the submitted study material that is evidence-based. The issue of Test-Achats is the same.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic135x.u125	It is indeed important to pay greater attention to this. It is psychopharmaceutical and our society is one with a lot of stress, and therefore with a lot of sleep problems. I do not believe that this will diminish itself, but that a proactive policy must be pursued. I note that you are taking a step forward with your e-learning module, but I hope there will be further actions. It is indeed between the patient's ears that the only way to be able to sleep properly would be to take sleeping pills. A whole learning process is needed to know how one's sleep patterns begin, and what things may or may not happen. So you do have a sensitization mission. I understand you want to work with information campaigns and so on. The current campaigns are clearly not sufficient. Maybe they're not known enough. In any case, you may step up on the basis of the recommendations you have been given.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic135x.u126	Madam President, Minister, I believe that this needs attention, because the past has shown that the actions and awareness campaigns, including those of your predecessors, have not brought much to the brink. We must continue to pay particular attention to this problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic135x.u127	Madam President, Minister, in this dossier we have heard each other before, but now we have a slightly different approach. You yourself have mentioned a number of times that in 2018 a double cohort students graduate medicine. The reason for my question is a text sent to you by the VGSO on 13 March, in which they expressed their concern about it. After all, the double cohort causes a number of problems and raises some very legitimate questions for the students. Moreover, and that is the main reason why I am asking you this question, time is pressing for the students, because soon they will have to make a choice that will determine their future and career. They take a rather constructive attitude, because they come up with some proposals. I'll just take five points out of it. Firstly, adequate funding to cover the one-off costs of the double cohort. Secondly, the creation of more internships, coupled with the information and active encouragement of internships on the hiring of assistants. Thirdly, the evaluation of the criteria for becoming a trainee and the adaptation of these criteria to the current context. Fourthly, to appreciate the internship correctly by means of remuneration or accompanying measures. Fifthly, an open debate on filling in the bottleneck specialties. Madam Secretary, how will you ensure that there is a satisfactory response to the problems associated with the double cohort? What solutions will you provide? In particular, what do you think of the proposals now being put forward by the VGSO? How will you involve students and other actors in this issue? What's your timing? When do you intend to offer the students an answer?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic135x.u128	Mrs Van Peel, 2018 is a special year because the training then goes from seven to six years. That year, doctors who have studied for six years and seven years will graduate. Finding sufficient internships is indeed a challenge. The double cohort is a one-off phenomenon, but this will have some effect, given the length of training to be recognised as a specialist or general practitioner, in particular the duration of the supplementary training. The position of the VGSO shows that we must indeed pay attention to the volume of placements and to ensuring the quality of theoretical and professional training. In the case of internships, it is not only a matter of sufficient space but also of exercising sufficient skills. One could double the number of internships for surgeons in training, but if they can all do only half of the interventions, there is a problem with the quality of the training. We must, of course, also provide for temporary additional funding. All points to the need for a mix of measures, such as motivating new internships and services that meet the quality conditions for training, facilitating foreign internships and creating a framework for clinical scientific research as part of the training. In the coming week, consultations will take place with the relevant services of the Public Health Office. A separate committee has been set up to deal only with the problem of the double cohort. An approach will be proposed after consultation with the Hoge Raad voor geneeren-specialists and general practitioners. It is intended to be tested with all those involved, including the candidate specialists. I understand the impatience. They're students, young people who are impatient. They want to see their future. However, they only know at the end of their studies whether or not they can specialise. They're as impatient as they were in my day. However, all this does not alter the fact that we are continuing to work towards a solution. In any case, it is intended to make a proposal and to consult with those concerned. However, it remains a major challenge.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic135x.u129	Madam President, Minister, thank you for your reply. I understand that you are taking this seriously and that you are taking their proposals with you. We must not underestimate this, not the challenge, but also its importance. As you rightly say, it is not just about the number of places we will be able to provide, but also about the quality. It is about the doctors of tomorrow, so we must pay due attention to that. It seems to me to be a good thing that there will be consultation by the committee set up for this purpose. If I have understood you correctly, it is still difficult to give a timing at this time.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic135x.u130	Maybe I'll know more after the next meeting. I'm just getting briefed after the meetings. I understand they're supposed to work on that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic135x.u131	No problem. As you know, I'll come back to this file a few times anyway. We'll be hearing from each other soon.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic135x.u132	Madam President, Madam Minister, I will quickly ask my questions so that my other question on the agenda can also be dealt with quickly. Or isn't that gonna work?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic135x.u133	No.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic135x.u134	In any case, I will soon consider my question. The health survey carried out by the Scientific Institute for Health shows that the socio-economic situation of people is an enormous determining factor in the way they use health care. This makes it more difficult for low-skilled people to find their way to health care, especially to specialists. The way to the dentist even turns out to be very difficult for them, because only 36 % goes there, while 72 % of the higher educated regularly make an appointment with a dentist. In addition to financial thresholds, other factors, such as the communication between the physician and the patient, appear to play a role. Low-educated people say this has to do with the fact that they cannot communicate intelligible, because the specialists cannot communicate in an understandable way. If you do not have a diploma, you will find that the specialist does not have sufficient opportunity to ask questions about the treatment or to express his concerns about the treatment. Fortunately, the picture is positive for the general practitioner, because almost no one says that there are problems with the explanations during the consultation. So everyone should take an example from the general practitioners, I would say. The study also shows that people with mental problems still prefer pills rather than the path to a psychologist. Barely half of the people with mental illness ever seek help in any way. Only 5% of the population had recourse to such aid the year before. It is also striking that among the elderly or 75-plussers, 40% of women and 26% of men take psychopharmaceuticals. That group also takes a much harder step towards following a therapy. This is a phenomenon that we also see among the low-skilled. Older people and low-skilled people are therefore vulnerable groups. They take a much harder step towards psychiatrists or psychologists when they have emotional problems. Madam Minister, what measures are you considering, in addition to the measures that have already been developed, to facilitate access to health care for vulnerable people, such as low-skilled people, people with disabilities but also elderly people? Which communication channels are used to inform low-skilled people and older people about the supply and importance of adapted healthcare, and to point out to them that pills are not always the best answer? How will you cooperate with your fellow Members of the Communities? When it comes to prevention, the Communities also have a role to play.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic135x.u135	In reply to your first question, Mrs Lanjri, I can tell you that reducing the differences in expected years of life has been included as a priority health objective in the government agreement. In this respect, I have already implemented a number of recommendations in the White Paper on access to healthcare. An essential measure is the application of the compulsory third-party payment scheme for general practitioners and certain medical benefits in kind granted to the person entitled to the increased allowance. We are talking about 1.8 million people. I refer to the adoption of the Health Act by the Council of Ministers on 27 March. With regard to your question about the channels of communication for informing vulnerable people, I believe that the insurance institutions are an important source of information for the patient. The White Paper on access to health care also makes recommendations on information in the light of health literature, in particular on vulnerable people. Among other things, we have strengthened intercultural mediation by increasing the number of employees and by making services more accessible to the western sector. I agree with you that there is also a task for the Communities, not just in the field of prevention work. For example, good results have already been achieved in schools and during holiday care, for example by teaching the importance of brushing teeth. It's done every year. They'd have to have the comfort for that, too. Everyone has to do the necessary work in their area, and prevention has a major role to play. We will continue to do so: the White Paper on access to health care is carefully examined for possible measures. In this way we also want to reach the so-called more difficult groups, groups where the behaviour is more difficult to change and groups in which there is a taboo or fear of the dental visit. Some patients have allowed them to get scared to go to the dentist, because the havoc is too great and so they are afraid of the pain associated with a repair. So there are many factors - you mentioned them - which we have to take into account. There's nothing as difficult as changing behavior. We continue to focus on more difficult groups to reach.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic135x.u136	Madam Secretary, you have been given the authority you very much wanted. The health gap has not arisen today, but has existed for a long time. Once again, the survey shows that we are still not reaching some groups for which we want to facilitate access to health care, despite many measures. We have included in the coalition agreement that we want to continue to work on this. We need to move forward step by step in order to bridge the gap in different areas, whether it be dental visits or medications. You are right to say that various organizations and institutions are responsible for this, such as the Communities, responsible for education, and that the sickness funds also play an important role. I agree. I would therefore like to ask that careful consideration be given to the necessary savings, including for insurance institutions, amounting to 20 million. We must not disappoint the insurance institutions and the sickness funds, because they are doing extremely important work. I hope that they will continue their work, despite the savings. If they do not continue their work on prevention and sensitisation, I believe that the costs to the public authorities may be higher. It must be recognised that they play an important role. You will be working out the savings measures of 20 million in the means of operation. I hope that you will discuss this and that the task of the sickness funds in terms of the sensitisation of patients who need it will be adequately supported.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic135x.u137	I would just like to say a few words about the recent budgetary measures. We reduce federal support to the health insurance funds by EUR 20 million. We still give EUR 1.1 billion a year to the sickness funds for the administrative services they provide. There is therefore a reduction of 1.8 %. Our own federal services have an obligation to save 4% annually on staff costs and 20% on operating costs. Investment costs should save even more than 20%. I therefore believe that the contribution we are asking for to the sickness funds in these difficult times is right. This will be worked out, as has always been done in the past. I didn't choose to save any more in health care. If I said my pockets were sewn shut, I knew why I said that. I've been redressing, Mrs. Lanjri. I went to the budget meeting with something without pockets and I knew why. What has come out is 20 million euros or 1.8 % less dotation to the mutualities. That's still over a billion dollars. Then there was EUR 5 million in the International Convention Service, where a slight overbudgeting had taken place. A budget check was therefore important. I think the patient was greatly protected. You ask whether the mutualities will continue to do their job. I hope so, because my officials must all work harder than they used to and for much less. So I hope so. I didn't put that on the table either. Honesty commands me to tell you what it's like.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic135x.u138	Madam Minister, we have also advocated that we do not make any further savings on social security. If you hadn't sewed up your pockets, I would have done it for you. You can count on me to have done that for sure. However, I would like to add that it is important to underline their preventive role in the discussions with the mutualities. When redefining the reimbursement to the mutualities, including operating costs, you may also need to look at the efforts they are making to ensure that the government can save on certain costs by working preventively. After all, some mutualities do that very well. I refer, for example, to the many actions of the CM. That should also be honoured.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic135x.u139	You're inspired.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic135x.u140	Madam Secretary, it's just an example. They may also be other mutualities. Just as is done in Sweden, I believe that accountability can also be honoured.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic135x.u141	That's what the coalition agreement says.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic135x.u142	Mutualities, I speak in the plural, which ensure that preventive work can be carried out, must also be honoured. This needs to be seen in the parameters that will be developed in the search for the 20 million.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic135x.u143	The government agreement states that these parameters will be developed and we will do so as a whole to finance the administrative costs of the mutualities. Only that will not be soon enough for this saving of 20 million, so we will look for it in the old way. Meanwhile, the work on developing these parameters goes on of course, but that is a much larger work. By the way, that's what the coalition agreement says. We're working on it. We have an agreement to include this, just as we will include quality in the financing of hospitals.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic135x.u144	It was just so you wouldn't misunderstand me.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic135x.u145	Madam President, twelve questions have been postponed again! The Chair: We need to see if some of them were for the second time, but I don't think so.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic135x.u146	We're following this closely.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic135x.u147	Question No 3207 by Mr Wathelet is transformed into a written question.
