ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip056x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip056x.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I start with the idea that quality is not the quantity but the quality. Thank you for being here. Ladies and gentlemen, there has been a great deal of discussion on this subject, both in committee and in plenary. I'll try not to repeat myself. I want to make clear what our party stands for and what we think about this budgetary control. The date of 29 March probably doesn't tell you anything anymore, but that day the rain fell out of the sky. It was a cold Sunday. On that cold, rainy Sunday, around 20 000 people here in Brussels have argued against the government. Despite the rain, there was a fierce demonstration. In spite of the rain, people were actually in a good mood. They were against this government, but they were benevolent because they thought there was hope. They thought there was an alternative. This is contrary to what this government always claims. They assumed that there is a social alternative that invests in people, protects purchasing power and, above all, distributes the burden fairly. That alternative exists. The story of this government that there is no alternative and that it has to be, those people didn't really understand. They showed that very fervently. Again, twenty thousand protesters in the pouring rain. Most of you will not have been there and will not have noticed that 29 March was also the start of the budget negotiations. At that time, the majority parties were sitting in a castle to bring budgetary control to a successful conclusion. Those 20 000 demonstrators were not affected, and they were not going to listen to them or to change the policy in any way. This is the conclusion I must draw from this budgetary control. Those tens of thousands of people from various civil society organisations were not heard at that time. This government continues to place the burden on families consistently rather than on others with broader shoulders. An important element in this demonstration was the demand for fair taxes, actually the demand for a tax shift. In January the Minister had said that the tax shift would be there and then he was talking about the month of March. That was about the moment when the demonstration and budgetary control took place. He therefore referred to the month of March and added that this would of course coincide with budgetary control. Even then, Mr Van Biesen, at Open Vld and N-VA, some people did not see that happening; they felt that both matters should remain separate. In this context, the president of CD&V said that it was possible to decide on budgetary control in the morning and on the tax shift in the afternoon. Both issues would then be dealt with separately but in fact together. Colleagues, none of this is happening, although new deadlines are being set for the tax shift. However, the tax shift needs to be introduced urgently for a number of reasons. Firstly, we all agree that the burden on labour must be reduced. You removed the reduction in charges from the Competitiveness Pact and shifted them. Today, we read in the newspaper that there is now a reduction in costs thanks to the Di Rupo government. The other one still has to come, because you moved them. The tax shift is therefore urgently needed, because the reduction is not yet in place. Secondly, it is high time for everyone to contribute their share and for the burden to be distributed fairly. Once again, today they are mainly placed with the families, much less with the big assets and much less with the fraudsters. Colleagues of CD&V, in exchange for the index jump we approved almost a month ago, you absolutely wanted a tax shift. Like I said, you still don't have one.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip056x.u3	(...) We have joined our majority partners when the tax shift was placed on the agenda. You are suggesting that they have been given the index jump and we have not yet received our share of the agreement. That's obviously wrong. We will work with the majority of fellow Members who work out fiscal justice in the coming weeks and months. One should not expect the great delivery in the first year of the legislature. If we want a thorough reform, we can take some time to do so. You certainly should not imagine it as if our part of the agreement had not yet been honoured. Both the coalition agreement as a whole and the tax shift are projects of this majority.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip056x.u4	Mr. Deseyn, you haven't got the tax shift yet. However, your chairman said that the discussion of the tax shift would coincide with the budget negotiations in March. He added that a number of political parties did not want both discussions to coincide and therefore one topic would be discussed in the morning and the other in the afternoon. That didn't happen. First of all, we were talking about the treatment of the tax shift in January, then in March, then it would happen before the summer recess, and now you say that the measure will come someday. I hope so with you, Mr Deseyn. I simply note that the other part of the agreement has already been implemented. However, the index jump is not an obvious measure, certainly not for you, but it could be taken very quickly. The debate in Parliament lasted one day and one night. For the tax shift, take your time, but you don't have that measure yet. In any case, the measure is not included in this budget and was not discussed after the budgetary negotiations. However, I have been looking for it and I actually have some good news for you, Mr Deseyn. I have found a tax shift in this budgetary control, in particular the carat tax. You won't be surprised. This carat tax is a gift to the diamondaires. We have already discussed this in detail. Even Mr Van Biesen said at some point in the committee that this is a favour to the diamond sector. The N-VA colleagues in their gallery have also actually said that this is a gift to the diamonds. Mr Vanvelthoven mentioned earlier the statements made by the CEO of the Antwerp diamond sector, who said that this carat tax will give the sector the necessary oxygen. You, too, Mr Deseyn, said in committee that this will create additional jobs because diamonds will come here from Dubai, which I think would be very curious if this tax were to be a tax increase. But of course it is not a tax increase, it is a favour for the sector. I'm not going into it any further. We've talked about that enough here in the last few hours.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip056x.u5	Mrs. Temmerman doesn't want to go into it anymore. It's about paying more than anything. Sometimes people are also happy to be able to pay for something, for example for an insurance premium. Many people and economic sectors are pleased that they can have insurance. There too, a price is paid for legal certainty. You do not seem to understand that, despite the explanations given by many fellow Members. That's too bad. You approach this very unilaterally and you do not really want to see it, because it does not fit in well with the opposition strategy.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip056x.u6	Mr Deseyn, I am sorry, but you are really wronging us. We supported the banking tax and we said about the caiman tax that it was actually our proposal. If we support something and if we find good elements in it, we say so. This isn't opposition talk. It was also proposed in the previous government, Mr Deseyn, and then it was stopped by the then Secretary of State because it is a gift to the diamonds. I didn't want to go into it any further, but you'll bring it up again. It is quite remarkable that something is being proposed by the sector, whose head of the FBI says it is a very sensitive sector. There are a number of things that we should deal with differently and that require more people to carry out controls. There have been very large controls in the past. For one diamond company, fraud amounted to 150 million euros. You now say you are satisfied with EUR 50 million for the whole sector. Why is one satisfied? We know, as with an assurance, that we are insured for the future. If fraud is still committed, it will no longer be verified. One knows what one will pay, no matter how much profit one makes. That's a very strange way of saying it's a tax increase. Let us talk about something else, let us see if the government has at least succeeded in getting on the right track and moving in the right direction, as Mr Van Biesen said just now.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip056x.u7	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip056x.u8	We're on the right track.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip056x.u9	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip056x.u10	No. You asked and then you replied in the affirmative: we are on the right track. The majority is very convinced of that. Minister Van Overtveldt also said in committee that the European Commission gave us a good report. I quote him: "I like to put that plume on my hat." Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Laaouej has already made a very extensive reference to the fact that the budgetary outcome is not as good as anyone would like it to appear. In its spring outlook published on 6 May, the European Commission has already taken account of this budgetary control. Her estimate of the budgetary outcome is an improvement in the structural balance, Mr Van Biesen, by 0.5 %, not 0.65%. After all, the Commission says that it is a detail that a number of measures are not structural. So let us believe the European Commission: 0.5 %. This means that the government is not achieving its own objective and that of the stability programme, which was 0,7%. You agree with me, I presume, Mr Van Biesen. So it's kind of weird that the government crows victory and says she made it, because it's actually not. The target was 0,7%. Mr President, you raised the question in committee as to what 0.2 percent of GDP is. That's 800 million, 800 million that they didn't make, but they put first. Even if we look at some concrete measures, we can only see that it was pleasant in the castle on 29 March, but it guttered outside. However, the government has not done its homework quite well. I'll go over the facts briefly. I'll start with primary expenses. They have increased by 155 million euros. This is due to the Court of Auditors' comments on the initial budget. The government has responded to this, but a lot of budget lines have still not been estimated, for example for Belgocontrol. Minister Galant says she actually needs 24 million for Belgocontrol. I'm just taking one example out of it, but it doesn't include that amount. Mr Vuye has just announced that Mr Francken also wants an additional budget. This is not in the budget either. We have not yet seen an amendment by the majority parties on that additional budget that Mr Francken is asking for. With me, you'll find that out. There is no amendment. There is still a shortage there too. Primary expenditure has increased by 155 million euros, but there are still a lot of deficits. Secondly, interest charges. The government assumes that interest rates will remain at the level of 11 March and will not increase for the rest of the year. This is worth 80 million euros. That was March. On 11 March the ten-year interest rate was 0.5 %. That's 0.5 over 0. Minister, last week's interest rate stood at 1.2 %. An increase in interest rates from 0 to 1.2 % makes the 80 million euros you have subscribed very doubtful. Well, it's only 80 million euros. A deficit of EUR 800 million or EUR 80 million, it is not so bad. It remains very unrealistic, however, to subscribe to the EUR 80 million yield in interest charges. Thirdly, the amounts paid to the Communities and the Regions. I will not talk about the debate on the EUR 750 million. I would just like to point out that the Court of Auditors has made it very clear that there is not enough EUR 124 million. 800 million euros, 80 million euros, 25 million euros and 124 million euros are under-estimated. The new figures for growth and inflation that you have applied to your own budget have not been applied to the figures for the regions. Hence the 124 million euros. Only EUR 124 million, you will say, Minister. Fourthly, the uncertain payback effects. Mr Peeters left because he knew there were no more questions for him. In the general discussion I would like to talk again about the starter jobs and the flexi-jobs in the hospitality industry. There one takes into account a whole range of payback effects, whereas they are actually debatable. Cd&V colleagues, don't get me wrong, we support these measures. Only we are left with the question of whether these measures will ensure that so many jobs will be created. We had part of the discussion yesterday on pensions and on workable work. It has been said that Minister Peeters is in the process of taking additional measures to encourage older people to work longer hours. All very well, but let us not forget that Minister Peeters has an envelope for the risk groups. The elderly and young people are among those at risk. He wants to double the number of young people with starter jobs, but his envelope remains the same. This means that there will be less left for the other groups at risk. One of the other groups at risk is the ageing population, which was said yesterday that there will be resources for that group. There's a problem, though. Will there be any payback effects? I'm not the only one asking these questions. Mr Lachaert has also asked some very serious questions, including in an opinion document. How will Secretary Peeters make this happen? How is he gonna get those eight thousand jobs? Again, not I wonder. I ask myself the same question, but colleagues from the majority also do so. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, you are a rich man here. Those payback effects are very uncertain. The same applies to flexi-jobs in the catering sector. Thanks to these flexi jobs, there would be 50 million euros in payback effects. Again, suddenly that sector would become completely white. Chapeau if it is. Let's do that. However, there are no concrete measures to achieve this. Here too, you count yourself rich. Mr Deseyn, just a moment, I'll start with the good stuff. Is there nothing good about this budgetary control? Yes, you do. We've waited a long time for it, but the Cayman tax is finally here. It's a caiman tax that's been transferred from our proposal up to now, but we're glad he's here. Mr. Deseyn, he does have little teeth. Ours had big teeth. Yours has little teeth. So he will catch something, but with our proposal it would have been much more. Anyway, our proposal had a whole series of big teeth. A second good measure is the five million extra for mental health care, which we can only welcome. Nevertheless, ladies and gentlemen, this budgetary control remains that of the missed opportunities: a missed opportunity to make a real adjustment and to distribute things fairly. I understand from your speech, Mr President, that you are absolutely committed to this. Here, in this budgetary control, you have missed an opportunity to introduce fair and just taxes and to apply the tax shift you are also in favour of to this control. A missed opportunity also with the carat tax, we have talked enough about that. Once again, this is a gift to the great assets and the fraudsters and there is no tax shift there. In particular, this is a missed opportunity to achieve its own objectives, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, objectives that you have set. For all these reasons, the sp.a Group will not vote for this budgetary control tomorrow with much conviction. Thank you for your attention and your presence.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip056x.u11	I call Mr Gilkinet on behalf of Ecolo-Groen. Mr Calvo is also in eighth place. Mr Calvo, you are on the list of speakers for the general discussion. The fifth speaker was Mr Gilkinet, sixth Mr Dispa, seventh Mr Maingain, eighth Mr Calvo and ninth Mr Van Hees.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip056x.u12	Mr President, Mr Calvo will speak for Green Ecolo and I will speak for Ecolo Green. Colleagues, I have already spoken in the general debate, which will allow me to be shorter now. First of all, I would like to react to the attitude of the majority in relation to this first budgetary adjustment. We have spoken widely about the budget. The Ecolo-Groen Group has submitted an alternative budget. We did this exciting exercise to establish our own budget. Today, as is the case in any public entity, we come to the first budgetary adjustment. I have heard in the head of the majority a very great self-satisfaction with this exercise "successful", "extraordinary", "what talent, minister of the budget, what a budgetary vision!" We are not going to complain, as elected officials, that things are very positive in appearance. I would just like to put this into perspective. Those who claim, as some colleagues do, that the macroeconomic budgetary situation is the result of the government's political action that has been in place for a year, are somewhat in excess. Consider an interesting international context for the time being because oil prices are quite low and it is also possible to finance themselves in financial markets at very competitive rates. These are two exogenous factors, external to our economy that give some oxygen but are not the result of the government's work. They are a rather positive element of context. I don't complain about that. Another element that made the fiscal year particularly easy has already been widely debated before I rise to the rostrum. My colleague Marcel Cheron spoke excellently on the subject, and other colleagues have spoken. This is the result of the FPS Finance projections in the implementation of a new special financing law which results in the disadvantage of the federated entities, the Regions, and a more favourable allocation of resources to the federal state. Finally, the fiscal adjustment exercise, in these circumstances, was not so difficult, Minister of Budget. It could have given you the ability to change the line given in the main fiscal year of the 2015 budget, to correct what was supposed to be, to reorient certain budgetary masses, which has not been done. I would like to highlight other indicators than those you use, such as the indicators of growth, of the development of Belgium's debt and others that are also the result of political choices that have been made by you and before you by the previous government or governments. Let us look at the indicator of the distribution of wealth, unemployment, poverty among us, women and children. This subject is widely discussed in some committees, including the Health Committee. Today it is impossible to rejoice at the state of redistribution. Let me turn to the economic indicator. How does our economy work today? Have thousands of jobs been created? Some are announced, things are going more or less well, with bad news, from time to time clarifications, but it is not possible to say that structurally, we are now on the path of economic redeployment. As far as environmental indicators are concerned, we are very regularly pointed out, condemned and shaken, in particular by Europe, in relation to what is not being implemented. In terms of climate and energy policy, as we said at the time of the initial budget, there is still little to see in the adjustment. Another interesting indicator is the functioning of the state apparatus. Our Minister of Justice himself is aware that our justice is in a particularly problematic state. The image given of the State in its capacity to judge is disastrous and likely to lead to the loss of the citizen's confidence in the judiciary, not to mention the latter's ability to prosecute financial and tax fraud in a broad sense. This has already been addressed by others and myself. The case of OECDFO was cited, but also of financial prosecutors who complain bitterly of a lack of resources, which paradoxically leads to the loss of resources for the federal state. Finally, even if the list is long, I will end with the mobility indicator. What is the state of SNCB? When will the work of the RSP be completed? Are things really positive in this area? When the majority welcomes and arrogates positive responsibility for our state's economic and budgetary situation, I think it goes a little far and there are challenges to be met, and we are waiting for the government in these matters. Mr. Budget Minister, it is a great pity that this first adjustment did not allow the implementation of an electoral campaign commitment, of what appears in the government agreement, which was also much discussed before I came to this forum: tax transfer to facilitate job creation by contributing other types of income. None of this in this budgetary adjustment that is before us today, even if some are trying to make it believe! The Minister of Finance, who is dealing with Greece with his colleagues in the Eurogroup – and I hope he is doing it well, but I have doubts about it – is trying to rename and reclassify a few scattered tax measures as a tax shift. But these do not correspond to what we expect in terms of tax transfer. Mr President, I have heard you, I have read what you have written about the tax shift and I have appreciated what you have said. I don't agree with others of your speeches. I do not blame you here, but I wonder when your party will come out of the logic of "the priest's maid" according to which "I would like to, but I can point". The animation of blogs is of great interest. It is very brave of you, given the context of the federal majority, to give interviews by making known the direction you want to go. I can even validate some of the leads you're talking about. But we don't see anything coming. The same goes for the Prime Minister's party, the Budget Minister, who says he wants a tax shift that involves polluters, speculators, fraudsters. Go on! All we ask is to see. What disappointment did I have when, during the analysis of this first adjustment, I did not see the first trace of the tax transfer that could be an alternative to the political choices you are making. Yesterday, in the Committee on Social Affairs, throughout the night, there was talk of the linear extension of careers without taking into account the heaviest careers, without considering alternatives, without putting in place formulas for sharing working time. There was also the index jump. The day before yesterday, as part of your initial budget, there was talk of savings in social security measures that will hit the weakest, the workers and especially part-time workers, pensioners who will suffer the index jump and the non-indexation of tax scales. We have done the calculations on the basis of your multi-annual budget note. You're going to save more than €5 billion on social security. We can use the tables, Minister of Budget. If we count the cumulative impact of index jumps on social benefits and various targeted measures to exclude beneficiaries of our social security system, we reach this amount. The tax shift could, if it is well thought out - it can also be the worst thing of course - be the alternative to all these painful political choices. We do not see this in this budgetary adjustment. As much as we strongly criticized the initial exercise, so much we proposed alternatives that contained our own tax shift often caricatured by the Chairman of the Finance Committee. I think he has had an explanatory statement from Mr Calvo or we can take it back on another occasion. In any case, as environmentalists, we want to show that there is a way to do something else. There's no other way. It's possible otherwise. Before I turn to the specific measures of budgetary adjustment, I would also like to comment on a reference element, an indicator that you use too regularly, Minister for Budgets. This is the share of public expenditure in GDP. It is often a slogan that you use to plead, not for new ways to carry out new public policies in the fields of education, justice, solidarity, investment in the economy, climate, but rather to say stop because we spend too much on our GDP. Mr. Minister of Budget, I think this indicator really has its limits. I invite you to reflect on this and to question this position of principle that you have taken. On the one hand, I don't think we can integrate public spending, social security spending, into what you call public spending. These expenses are a deferred salary. This is the result of workers' contributions. On the other hand, apples and pears are compared between GDP and public expenditure, especially since some public expenditure is recorded on several occasions. Our conviction is that there are still and still are unmet needs in terms of solidarity, social cohesion, investment in the economy of the future, in sectors that deserve specific support, and I am not talking about the diamond sector. We have arrived, some members of the majority have expressed themselves in this direction, at a level of non-return in terms of savings. Other countries, which have, under pressure from international institutions, made choices of savings, today bite their fingers, in the deflatory logic they have to live through, in the loss of confidence of citizens and in the dysfunctions of their economic system. We have to get out of this logic. Several members of the government, including members of your party, said that we had to stop destroying our public service, that we had reached a point where we could not go any further, that we had to ask for softer fiscal trajectories rather than hurt ourselves today. However, I do not see any change of course in the head of your government. This budgetary adjustment could have been an opportunity to correct the shot – but not as in an initial exercise. The budgetary masses, that was said by Mr. Van Rompuy, Mrs. Smaers, Mr. Van Biesen, are out of measure. We could have been more ambitious in terms of the budget mass. It is probably at the time of the initial 2016 budget that you will have to surprise us positively. However, I would like to point out that the choices you have made do not go in the direction of more tax justice, more efficiency of public tools, more redistribution, more investment in the economy of the future. I will cite some spectacular examples. First, the famous diamond tax is a tailor-made regime, a concessional regime for a specific sector that clearly has a long arm within your government. All the external bodies consulted with regard to this mechanism are concerned about its relevance and the assessment of revenue. Whether it is the Court of Auditors, the Inspectorate of Finance, the FPS Finances, the Council of State, they are unanimous. But you have, as in other matters, reason against the rest of the world or you are under such a strong influence that you cannot open your eyes to the fact that it is abnormal to tax a sector that generates so much profit, which is sensitive to the phenomenon of fraud on a flat-rate basis. We strongly denounce this preferential regime attributed to the diamond sector. We suggest that, in the event of a problem of good tax collection, specific resources should be put in place, as is the case in other areas, rather than creating a sui generis system of favour for this sector. I am sure that the resulting recipe would be much higher than the one envisaged and that you are presenting as an extraordinary victory. Mr Minister, we must be more supportive of your colleagues, and if you do not agree, I invite you to share this with them, and not just with me. A budget minister must be able to resist bad political choices made by his colleagues. I do not know if, in Hannut, there are many diamond miners, but you can say that other economic sectors would deserve specific treatment, because they would allow for stronger, more legitimate, more redistributive development and job creation. We also spoke about the Cayman tax, the transparency tax. It is a system that stems from a positive international trend towards the automatic exchange of information, under the impetus of the United States. It is inscribed in the stars that it will always be more difficult to hide the existence of offshore companies and profits in those companies that are not properly taxed, but the regime you have chosen is not the most ambitious. The Ecolo-Groen Group has, on several occasions, tabled a bill to incorporate into our Income Tax Code a control system that comes from the United States, the CFC system. The CFC (Controled Foreign Corporation) system, which exists in other countries, is extremely effective. Companies are taxed in their country on profits made abroad, particularly in the context of these offshore companies. They can only deduct from the tax owing what they have paid abroad. Thus, a system of fair tax competition is achieved. This is not at all what is provided for in the system envisaged here, since from 15% taxation, which is nevertheless particularly advantageous, the tax may not be paid at home. Budgetary control also provides for additional revenue in the fight against fraud. As a matter of principle, we welcome them positively. But when we try to find out what mechanisms and means will be devoted to the fight against fraud and will make it possible to collect these revenues (which are due), it is not easy to obtain information. Mr. Ducrame told us that the ISI would have a hundred additional staff. And then, as part of the discussions, we learn that it is a matter of dressing Paul by undressing James, of internal transfer within the tax administration. The ISI age pyramid should challenge the government as a whole in order to retain the expertise of older public servants who will soon be admitted to the pension. And each of these researchers, of these investigators, generates more than it costs in terms of new revenues – but they are a due, they are not new taxes but simply taxes actually paid. Minister, the most surprising moment of the budget discussion is the tabling of this amendment by N-VA colleagues to transfer two staff members from Ms.Sleurs' office, who was in charge of tax evasion, to the office of the Minister of Finance. That is when we learned that for a year, in terms of coordinating the policy to combat tax fraud in our country, estimated at between EUR 20 billion and EUR 30 billion in structural costs to the State, there were two people! I was not told their level; perhaps he was an academic with support staff. After that, it is surprising that Mrs Sleurs did not hear an ambitious plan for a year. We heard the other way around. This is in line with the government's ambition to combat tax fraud. As part of the analysis of the programme law, we will resume discussions on how to tax intercommunals, the issue of liquidation bonuses, which are enormous advantages given to certain structures. I do not complain to those who will be able to benefit from it, but there is still a logic of double standards. There is also a lot to be said about the income from the bank tax as reintroduced by amendment in the program law. I contest the position defended by Mr. Van Biesen and the Chairman of the Finance Committee on the efficiency and accuracy of the arrangements. We believe that the contribution must be inversely proportional to the size of the banks, i.e. a smaller contribution of the smaller banks, to the safer model than the larger banks to encourage them, according to the criteria chosen, to develop practices that are less risky than those that have cost our State very much. There are other spectacular elements. I am not making an inventory here at the Prévert of all the poorly estimated revenue and expenditure, identified in particular by the Court of Auditors. As far as intercommunal matters are concerned, you have changed the taxable base several times. In the area of invoices to be cleared in the justice sector, for more than 100 million euros, we do not yet know the acceptance of the Institute of National Accounts in relation to the method you have chosen. As far as the contribution of nuclear power is concerned, I leave it to Mr Calvo to read the Tihange Convention in the rostrum. The recipes are more than random. At the level of the Régie des Bâtiments, it is impossible to know what investments will actually be made: the Haren prison, the Palaces of Justice of Namur and Dinant and other investments elsewhere in our country in relation to which commitments have not been fulfilled. There is also the issue of interdepartmental provisions. In short, beyond not being visionary and not being fair, your exercise is absolutely uncertain. Before I come to my conclusion, I will say a word on the issue of dialogue with the federated entities on the implementation of the special financing law. I have heard Mr Laaouej be quite hard on the FPS Finances. I think it is a political rather than an administrative responsibility to be able to clarify things. As has been said, the Special Financing Act provides for the negotiation of a royal decree to determine the mode of collaboration, the criteria used and the modes of communication between the federal state and the federated entities.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip056x.u13	The political error is that this royal decree has not yet been implemented, which would allow the dialogue and exchange of information between the federal state and the federated entities to be fluidized. We expect clear responses and commitments, as well as an update on this issue. We really feel that the government does not hear the reactions around it. You keep the course of blind austerity. You have not called into question the harshest measures that will affect tens of thousands of our fellow citizens. You didn't move towards more tax justice. On the contrary, as shown by the diamond tax and the Cayman tax, you do not take into account external elements that seem obvious to us in terms of political objectives. You are neglecting, for example, the Climate Conference. You also do not incorporate what you are told by the external bodies responsible for advising you in your work, such as the Court of Auditors and the Council of State. You move forward like a train thrown into the fog, without worrying about the social grunt that is being expressed and the citizen mobilization. On the street, associations and our fellow citizens are demanding more tax justice. You answer them with the diamond tax and the Cayman tax. I don't think that's what they're waiting for. They eventually hope for a shift tax, a better contribution of capital income, a widening of the taxable base, a better progressivity of the tax. They expect more social justice. You tell them that you'll have to work three more years, whatever the job you're doing. You are making decisions that will have a huge impact on the level of pensions for women, who are already at a very high disadvantage in terms of the labour market structure. Our citizens want to work and expect quality jobs. You're offering them flexijobs. Our citizens expect action in environmental matters, more environmental justice. I've been looking. No more than in the original budget, there is no choice in your budget adjustment in this area. Minister of the Budget, the budget – sorry, since you are the only one who has to bear it on behalf of the government – is totally inadequate. We're almost on the eve of June 30th. It is time for the delivery of the CEBs and other forms of certification. If I were the jury that was to decide on your admission in the next year, I could tell you that you missed the initial exams and that the passing exam of the budget adjustment is no better. So I'm asking you to put the book back on the job. Mr Piedboeuf?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip056x.u14	(...) your rating.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip056x.u15	Tell me, Mr. Piedboeuf.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip056x.u16	Can do better.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip056x.u17	Ladies and gentlemen, after Mr Dispa, I will give the floor to Mr Dispa. Van Hees. After that, only Mrs Smaers and Mr Crusnière were registered as speakers. For the rest, no one is registered for the different chapters anymore.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip056x.u18	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip056x.u19	That has happened in the meantime.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip056x.u20	Ladies and gentlemen of the Committee on Finance and the few other colleagues who are still present, Mr Minister, Mr President, in your absence, our honourable colleague Georges Gilkinet has been a little disparaging with the President in office since he assimilated Mr. Van Rompuy to "the priest's maid." I'm not sure he understood the allusion because Annie Cordy is not very popular in the North. I would have liked to comfort him and say that I would have been very honoured to speak under his presidency, but I am not disappointed to be here under the eyes of the President-in-Office. You'll pass it on to Mr. Van Rompuy congratulated and encouraged because, not only did he chair the work of the Sixth Committee with authority, but he also conquered the perch here and created the debate by his positions which are still very strong. Beware, minister, perhaps you have a competitor here who could come forward to assume future responsibilities. Since you have both been very patient, I will perhaps allow myself to introduce a note of poetry not in this world of bullies - I would not describe the debates that we have had in committee - but in any case in this arid debate and above all filled with figures. It was Joachim du Bellay who said in his time: "Happy who like Ulysses made a beautiful journey!" If I were to paraphrase Joachim of the Bellay, being much less lyrical and much more prosaic, I would tend to say "Happy who as Hervé made a small conclave." At the end of the conclave, that was your expression, minister, you said that you were a happy man, a happy budget minister because the debates had been relatively brief. You have caught up with the length of the debates today in this Parliament. Finally, more time will have been spent on adjustment than the government itself in its work to develop this budgetary control. You were a happy man, not only because of the brevity of the exercise, but also because you had been able to do less harm. The government had the opportunity to build on what appeared to it to be good news. In doing so, you expressed a satisfaction which quickly proved to be contagious in your ranks since, quite quickly, Deputy Prime Minister Reynders indicated that the ball was in the camp of the Regions. As a result, the MR group leader in the Walloon Parliament informed Walloon government ministers that they could not go on vacation, which was not in their intentions. We quickly realized that the happiness of some was the misfortune of others. I would like to come back to this incident, to the clash that emerged between the federal government and the federated entities at the announcement of this change in the figures for the regional PPI. I have had the opportunity to tell you in committee, Mr Budget Minister, this is in no way a grievance to you, but I think that we have really been experiencing something serious at that time, that our country should not live too often under the penalty of putting pressure on the entire Belgian institutional structure. On every floor of the federal state, there was a shock and no one has to win. Irrespective of the political vagaries of the majority compositions at a particular level of power, coherence is necessary. Objectively, this consistency did not appear at that time. Since then, things have calmed down a little. You yourself have helped calm the spirits. You don't have a belligerent temperament, and that's how it is. I learn three lessons from this unfortunate episode. Three imperatives must be respected. First of all, there is a need for reliability. We can say in the ranks of the majority that, in the end, the results are more or less the same. Nevertheless, it is important to have a reliable calculation, to have a methodology that is undisputed. Obviously, this was not the case at the time you announced the figures, since the calculation was already different from that made at the time of the initial budget. It then became apparent that the Court of Auditors' calculation was also relatively different. You have also announced, during the debates in committee, a possible fourth method of calculation. You said that consultations are under way with the Regions. In any case, it seems to me, if only in relation to the method of sampling used, that the copy is clearly to be revised in order to make it more reliable. Secondly, from a regulatory point of view, beyond regulation, there is a management rigour: this royal decree, which is lacking, must be able to adopt it as soon as possible, so that from now on we can have a common reference, a text that can be authoritative, between federal entities and federated entities. Otherwise, there will always be a doubt about the reliability of the calculation, which will be detrimental. There is an imperative of reliability and I would tend to say that there is an imperative of loyalty. Again, this is certainly not a grievance to you, I am not making any claims to you, but entity I and entity II are, in a way, a common cause, if only because we are acting under the eyes of Europe. What is being done on the one hand is not without repercussions on what is being done on the other. Simply returning the potato to the other level of power, whether in one direction or the other, is not tenable. I really think that there are between the entities, and especially between the ministers of the budget, working habits and exchange of information to be taken. Much tax information is exchanged with countries on the other side of the world. It would be good if between Brussels and Namur, for example, or between Brussels and Brussels, when the institutions are in the same city, there could be real-time information on the changes in calculation methods, on the changes in figures so that we do not relive this psychodrama which has harmed the quality of the public debate in this country. Perhaps the third imperative that we must pay attention to is more the responsibility of your colleague the Minister of Finance: it is an imperative of predictability. I have heard some say that it is finally a good thing that the Regions are exposed to the hazards to which the federal state is itself confronted, and that they have to cash in the good news or the bad news and fluctuations. Personally, I do not share this view. I feel that our tax system and expected revenues must be as stable and predictable as possible. Fluctuations and hazards are damaging. There is, of course, some uncertainty that we will never be able to lift, but I think that the Minister of Finance really needs to work on mechanisms that strengthen predictability so that, from one control to the next, we do not have to work on figures that sometimes have a very heavy impact on the management and control of expenditure, whether in the head of one government or another. I would like to stress these three elements: the reliability of the calculation, the loyalty between the entities and the predictability of the budget, particularly with regard to tax revenues. These are conditions that must be met if we are to be able to regain budgetary security. I want to believe that rather quickly, you will be able to come back to share with us the conclusions of the ongoing consultations with the Regions and that you will be able to propose an undisputed and undisputed method to the government and then to Parliament. That would be a good thing for our future work. This was the most prominent political fact of this budgetary control, but there are obviously many other things to be said. I will not abuse your speaking time and patience, minister. I will say one more word about the context in which you had to work. A number of positive news has made the work a little easier and probably shortened the work of the government. The fall in oil prices, the fall in the euro, the fall in inflation are macroeconomic factors that have made things a little easier. This should not, however, make us overly optimistic, because the context also presents great uncertainties. This has not been discussed much today, but I would like to refer to the Greek situation. The news is quite fluctuating from hour to hour. It blows a little hot and cold. It is very much to be hoped that Europe will reach an agreement so that the disastrous scenario of exiting Greece from the euro area can be avoided. This crisis puts the political credibility of the euro area to the test. I want to believe that the incendiary statements of each other will bring us back to some form of wisdom and that everyone will make the ultimate effort necessary to reach a general agreement, otherwise this economic context would remain very uncertain and very damaging. I hope that the members of our government do not put oil on fire and refrain from any statement, as we have heard in the last few days. This did not help the emergence of a solution. I come to the second element that gives rise to my concern, given the general context, that is, the growth that remains very sluggish. The growth of 0.1 per cent is welcomed. If the trend were indeed to go up, it would be a good thing to do so. However, it is still very far from the 2% growth threshold generally considered necessary for job creation. In fact, one can objectively question – the question will not be settled today – the impact of the policies of consolidation and austerity which are recommended by the Commission and which are little or no longer implemented by the governments. Is this part of the solution or is it part of the problem? The President of the Commission, Jean-Claude Juncker, recently presented a plan to strengthen the euro area. He places this reform in a rather distant horizon since he spoke of 2025. In my view, we will not be able to wait that long and we should deepen the mechanisms of the euro area as quickly as possible. The Finance Minister, who has been absent all day, although I understand that the work of the Eurogroup is not going on indefinitely, pointed out in his time in publications for which he was responsible all the weaknesses of the euro area. Now that he occupies a seat at the Eurofin table, it would be appropriate for him to make proposals to strengthen the governance of the euro area. I am not sure that he is a supporter of a federalist leap in this area, but there is still something to question and worry about, if growth on a European scale does not come back. This brings me to the third element of uncertainty in the context of ours. It has already been widely discussed at the initiative of Mr. Van Rompuy, whose return I welcome. Mr Van Rompuy, in your absence, I have said all the good things I think about you. Now that you're back, I'll repeat myself. Indeed, in this forum, as you did in committee – on page 88 of the report – you have expressed a very clear position that I will call courageous with regard to the tax shift. While this issue is not entirely within the scope of the discussions on budgetary adjustment, it is nevertheless, in a way, pleased that you are here to express a clear, coherent, solid point of view. In front of you, on the benches of the majority, we felt, in committee and again just now, a little bit of soul state and a little difficulty in answering you. It would, however, be clearer if the government were to define a common position as soon as possible. The Prime Minister, when asked last week about the objectives, the method, the timetable, remained very evasive. At least you define a clear position. Personally, I can only agree in particular with two points on which you are right to insist. On the one hand, it is the need for budgetary neutrality. This is not insignificant since in the majority there are political forces which have not always joined and which may not always adhere to this point of view. Proposals for tax reform were heard that had to have a proactive impact on the budget, otherwise it was not worth it. It was taking it from one pocket to put it back in the other. There is a disagreement here. I hope that it will be overcome and that it is your point of view that will prevail over this issue which seems to me to be very important. On the other hand, it is an obligation to avoid further bleak cuts in State expenditure and, in particular, in social security expenditure. I believe that a shift tax which would have the effect of further cutting off credits which are also known to be probably insufficient in many sectors would be detrimental. I hope that rather quickly, your colleagues in the majority will eventually join your positions or, in any case, they will eventually speak out. Ms Wilmès welcomed the coherence and team spirit of the majority. So far, on this case, we haven't really seen them. I hope the facts will make him right. We will support you, Mr Van Rompuy, as long as you defend these positions and the target by which you will be able to compensate for this tax shift will be at the level of fraudsters, speculators, polluters. I would have more trouble, I do not hide it from you, penalising consumers, if adventure, for example, VAT on electricity were to be revised upwards. I do not think that it is consumers who should be involved. In any event, whatever means of compensation we may have the opportunity to come back to when the time comes, we are in favour of an ambitious tax shift that is truly job-creating. This is a challenge that the government has set itself, without being able to solve it at this stage. We'll wait a few more weeks, and if we didn't honour the appointment, it would really be a missed date for this majority and for the country. This economic context that I have just mentioned has obviously had an impact on Belgium's 2015 budget. Growth is slightly higher than forecast by the Monitoring Committee. Inflation is a little lower than expected, allowing the index jump, the loss of tax revenues and the expected offsets to be carried over once again. Interest charges are also lower than expected. There are positive elements but I wanted to say that it should not plunge us into a beat optimism. One word on the content of the budget adjustment, without repeating everything that has already been said abundantly. Mrs Wilmès welcomed this interdepartmental provision and the creation of a new security provision. Honestly, the string seems a little big. Indeed, the term security does good. We have the impression that this is serious, but until further notice, we have not yet seen what this provision includes. Mr Minister, in committee, you told us that you received a lot of requests and that you listed all the wishes of each other. The link with security is not always obvious. If we were to clear the FPS Justice bills there, honestly, we would find it difficult to consider it a measure that would restore security in this country. Minister, perhaps you are now in a position to draw up a complete list of wishes and make an initial selection that you could submit to the government in the near future. In the absence of such information, one is obliged to remain in the vagueness of this provision. You will probably tell me that this is also what a provision is for, that is to say, to swipe without the knowledge of what it can be used for. Here too, we will wait if the answers do not come in favour of this debate. Let us now turn to the subject of primary government spending. Without wishing to argue, I would like to stress a point made by the Court of Auditors which, to my knowledge, has not received any reply. The subject is certainly very technical and Mr. Van Biesen considered that it was not worth mentioning, but the Court of Auditors, in its report, pointed out that no less than 19 budgetary programmes had been created by a transfer reassignment order and that, if they were not included in the adjustment, they would be without a legal basis, which posed a problem of legality in relation to the adjustment. The Court of Auditors mentioned this and reminded you of it. I do not believe that the problem has been solved, but technically, there is a difficulty in not providing these programs with the legal basis they would receive if they were specifically included in the adjustment voted by the House. Beyond this problem of legality, you impose a new administrative blockage in a number of sectors and additional savings in particular in the mutuals sector in the field of social security. Perhaps there are some new initiatives here and there? It is up to the majority to highlight them. Objectively, they are relatively modest. A number of underfundings have been identified by the Court of Auditors and the members of the committee. I accept that you have answered almost point by point, but acknowledge that the answer is not entirely satisfactory every time. In many cases, in the event of a proven shortage of credits, you said that we would examine the mass of the department while trying to compensate internally. It is too easy to answer, and even if the amounts, in terms of the billions and billions of the federal budget, may seem modest, it is only to govern, that is to say to predict. Since these expenses are inescapable, they are either directly included in the budget or subject to additional demands, as was already the case when it was pointed out that the funds for asylum and migration might be insufficient. It is better to put things down and take on what is a legal obligation on the budget, without which we can postpone to better days, slide under the carpet and thus allow a situation to worsen. On the revenue side, a lot has already been said. You benefit from a one shot that you have estimated at 236 million euros in view of the liquidation bonuses. Well, that is good news in the context of the budget year. However, this is mainly an anticipation of tax revenues. This "plus" only compensates for future "less" in a multi-annual perspective. Beyond this one shot, you will take so-called structural measures, that's how you presented them. The cdH group can hardly subscribe to it with enthusiasm. You are planning additional revenue through the fight against tax evasion. I agree that it is not alpha and omega in budgetary and fiscal matters. Nevertheless, this is a sensitive subject because it affects the sense of equality and contributing justice that our fellow citizens can feel. You're announcing an additional 100 million. As has already been said in committee and today in plenary. Of these receipts, at least 70 million come from more or less spontaneous declarations. Therefore, there are no additional underlying measures. If we stick to the 30 million that make up the balance, we are half of what is produced through the fight against social fraud. It is an imbalance that does not guarantee that contributing justice to which we are committed. I, too, would like to say that, behind the statements that have been made today in the rostrum, a will must be expressed very firmly in this matter. The MR's silence in response to the OECDFO inquiry was somewhat embarrassed. Try to provide us with reassuring answers about this important tool in the fight against financial crime. Frankly, I think that the Minister of Finance, when he takes over responsibility, should comply with the practice of writing a new general policy note. That would erase the disastrous impression that had been left by Mrs. Sleurs' note. This could perhaps lead to a better start and a more credible statement of intent. The Cayman tax, 50 million euros. This is certainly a step in the right direction...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip056x.u21	You're talking about the silence of the MR. You were probably present when the Prime Minister answered this question here in plenary, after having already answered a question from Mr Gilkinet in the Committee on the Interior – if I do not miss my memory, it was on 9 June last – stating that this is absolutely not a dismantling but rather a decentralization of resources, on the basis of a law that was passed in 2014 under the previous government. There is no question of silence here.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip056x.u22	I was referring to Mrs Wilmès's lack of response. I'm not complaining about it, but your intervention is worrying. It is this decentralization that is a problem. It is the referral to the boroughs of means that would benefit from mutualization. Frankly, if it is to give this answer, it is even better to remain in expectation and to give time for reflection to return to the subject. Do not take responsibility for an irreversible decision on this matter. It would damage the instruments available in that country.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip056x.u23	Mrs Wilmès replied earlier that there was nothing on the table for the time being. I don't see how she wouldn't have answered the question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip056x.u24	Your two answers are already different since both of you do not have the same approach. In any event, I would prefer that groups of the majority take the time to assess all the impacts of this decision and that a lengthy debate be held on this matter rather than coming with a harmful decision in terms of the means available to justice and the police to combat financial crime. Think twice before you endorse a process that seems indefensible to me. I was at the Cayman tax. It certainly goes in the right direction, but we must not fool ourselves, it is likely to show its limits quite quickly. The expected performance is objectively quite uncertain. The objective pursued is not without ambiguity, since in committee the Minister of Finance suggested that the objective could be twofold: both to obtain additional revenue and eventually to dismantle these private offshore heritage structures. It's a little contradictory somewhere. On the other hand, it may not be necessary too quickly to remove the risks of perverse effects that this tool could induce. Without reinvigorating the controversy, I will be much more critical of the carat tax. Diamonds are eternal, it seems, but it is certain that the recognition of the diamond sector towards this government will be eternal. It has already been manifested in various ways through a triumphant communiqué issued by the sector, which has removed any credibility to the fiscal and proactive nature of your proposal. In the meantime, the mayor of Antwerp himself granted a satisfaction to the Prime Minister by declaring that he was a great man. The concomitance of communications has not deceived anyone. There was an elevator discharge there. I understand the gratitude of the diamond sector, which is satisfied with one of its old demands. Also understand that those who are attentive to the fight against fraud and crime find it an extremely damaging signal, a form of renunciation of the correct application of the legal provisions. It is unnecessary to reiterate here that the FATF has more than once pointed to the diamond sector as being particularly exposed to money laundering. On this measure, we can under no circumstances agree with you. Rather, it is a confirmation of the State's inability to raise taxes in a sector that weighs heavily, not only in terms of employment and economic activity but also in terms of contributory capacity.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip056x.u25	Once again, we repeat the same thing. We have made it clear in committee that the system put in place, which leads to a significant increase in the tax paid, as Mr Vuye pointed out, will simplify the controls. It will no longer be necessary to take care of the professional duties of the diamond miners, nor to search the charges to find out what is going on there. We will be able to devote all the time necessary to the checks to be carried out, the other checks, and to try to get rid of the frauds to which you are referring. I do not understand why you have this fantasy that the simplification of the system would lead to a waiver of controls and the search for fraud.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip056x.u26	It would be good if the budget included additional revenue related to these controls that you are announcing. To my knowledge, they don't appear.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip056x.u27	They are announced and the Minister of Finance has confirmed that the development of this system would most likely lead to an increase in revenues. We don't make budgets with figures that we don't know. This budget is reasonable, with revenue increases that are reasonable. If revenues are higher, which is our goal, we will be very happy and we will be able to allocate budget margins to many other things.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip056x.u28	We will certainly have the opportunity to talk about it again, but agree that at this stage your remarks are a pious wish. I ask only to believe you on your word, but I do not think we will convince ourselves. I am a little surprised that the defenders of this mechanism are now found on the MR benches. It would be more logical for the Antwerp elected officials who take on – they do it on the other hand – what is a form of support for an important activity in their region, rather than providing a kind of moral guarantee to this mechanism. You take responsibility for it, but you won't convince me. I wasn't trying to convince you either. We have to assume our positions. It seems to me that this adjustment runs the risk of being a trompe l'oeil. Of course, you are keeping a budget path, which I welcome. It's good that the tags you set yourself can be held. But agree that if this is the case, it is in particular because part of the effort – it is a kind of tax shift – has been transferred to the Regions. It is also because you have been able to benefit from a number of more favourable macro-economic parameters. We know that we are far from being out of the tunnel and that the efforts will have to be maintained in order to achieve the final objective which you have confirmed today, that of restoring budgetary balance. To reach it, it is the second trompe-l'oeil that I identify, you choose, and you assume, a relatively "austerious" line. Either, perhaps, there is a need for control and control of expenditure, but at the same time you cannot ignore the real needs that are expressed in all sectors. Today, in the area of asylum and immigration, needs have been expressed. They are not met, and this is the case in many other departments. At some point, it will be necessary to check whether this "austerity" logic ultimately leads to a lack of knowledge of real and legitimate needs. Finally, on the tax side, and the debate on carat tax is a good example, some measures struggle to delude. The government puts them to its credit as if it were committed to a firm commitment to combat abusive situations. But, in reality, we know well that behind this appearance of voluntarism and severity, it is preferential treatment that is granted or tolerated. For these reasons, without surprise, I must confirm to you that, as far as we are concerned, we will obviously vote against this budgetary adjustment. Thank you for your attention and I wish you a good evening.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip056x.u29	Ladies and gentlemen, I think I will introduce a proposal to amend the Rules of Procedure with a view to determining the order of passage of speakers in plenary by drawing lots. Colleagues, I'll be brief. You can applaud, if you want. Somewhere, I would say, this budgetary adjustment is a good exercise if we consider that a good adjustment respects the spirit of the original budget. In terms of austerity and social cuts, this adjustment is in line with the budget. With regard to social cuts, it is only in the area of security that budgets are slightly adjusted and slightly increased. This can be welcomed or questioned as to why the budget is being increased in the particular security sector. Is there a causal link between this brutal austerity policy and the increase in the security budget? The question can be raised when we see that the right to strike is questioned by this government. It is also questionable whether, given the social unrest that this austerity policy could generate, an investment in security is not necessary. Like the budget, this adjustment is based on three myths. It's the "Tunnel End" first. We're gonna make some more effort, and we're finally getting out of the tunnel. It's not really new. Forty years ago, a man named Wilfried Martens said the same thing. It's not the Channel Tunnel, it's the Atlantic Tunnel! This is then the myth of competitiveness. I have heard the satisfaction of some colleagues that Belgium's competitiveness has improved. Yes, it is extraordinary, but what will happen and what will neighbouring countries say? They will say: "Our competitiveness is decreasing compared to that of Belgium. So we're going to have to cut wages a little further." In Germany, this is going to be hard, because there has already been a sharp drop in wages, even though some increases have been announced. This creates an endless downward spiral, which will break any possibility of consumption and recovery. Finally, the strongest myth is that of job creation. All that this majority is doing is always in the name of employment. Now, when you dig a bit, what do you see? What is this government doing where it is itself an employer? It reduces the volume of public employment. It is quite surprising to see a government that, on the one hand, gives gifts to employers to create jobs, but, on the other hand, eliminates jobs in the public sector or that a government is lowering the retirement age to 67 by leaving even more young people unemployed, with no prospect of finding work. This is an old logic that Helmut Schmidt had already launched. Today's profits are tomorrow's investments and the jobs the day after tomorrow. The first phase works well, the benefits of today work well, but tomorrow, and even more, the day after tomorrow, it works much less well, because it is mostly dividends that increase. The dividends of the Bel 20 exploded this year. It is not clear where we are in terms of tax shift. We hear everything: it is already being applied, others say it will be. One thing I have already understood about the tax shift is that in any case the VAT on electricity will be increased by 6 to 21%. I asked the Prime Minister the other day, he absolutely refused to answer. I assume that VAT will increase from 6 % to 21 % on electricity. About these famous 750 million of the special funding bill, I may be going a little further away from the speech of my opposition colleagues, because I, somewhere, I have to say, I don't care if it's the federal or the regional that's getting budget revenue.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip056x.u30	Except not to consider it important to you, what I can understand is a choice that teaching, and especially those in difficulty in teaching, is in the background. Since you are in the gallery, I suggest that you correct your point to say, "I don't care what's going on." All the more so since, if I am well informed, your colleagues in the Walloon Parliament and the Wallonia-Brussels Federation do not care. Nevertheless, everyone is free to say what he or she wants in the gallery, in documents, etc. Everyone can do what he wants when he is a parliamentarian, but I still invite you to think twice about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip056x.u31	Mr Nollet, when you make a statement like this, you move on something, and then you grade it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip056x.u32	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip056x.u33	What I meant to say is, "I don't care." There are, however, two problems. On the one hand, there is a problem of transparency. We wonder where the figures the government gives us come from. The Court of Auditors achieves more or less the same result but using another method, which does not regulate transparency. On the other hand, I note that this reform of the state, like all the others, is above all a way of creating budgetary cards. The question of education can thus be revisited. It is known that education has been severely defunded by previous State reforms. It is therefore realized that all these reforms of the State are a way of creating cartons to make budget cuts for some entities. In addition, one is in a logic that aims to break solidarity between people. The PTB has always opposed these successive state reforms and even more so the sixth. We already knew that there was a logic to break the solidarity between the North and the South of the country. Now we are also breaking solidarity between the Regions and the federal government. It is therefore an aberrant logic in which the PTB does not fit at all, unlike other training courses here which are very pleased with this evolution. With regard to corporate tax (ISOC), Mr Laaouej addressed this issue, saying that one billion euros were missing...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip056x.u34	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip056x.u35	Indeed, the explanation for the additional billion is lacking. He was told that the company's primary income was increasing. I think that's a good answer. With a policy of giving gifts to employers, employers, as it is led by this government, it is not surprising to see the primary income of companies increase. I see above all proof of gifts. As far as the diamond tax is concerned, a lot has been said, so I will be brief. I'll call Mr. Van Rompuy said it's someone from his party who runs the FPS Finances and wrote this famous mail. I have the impression that you are somewhat dissimilar to the letter signed by Hans D'Hondt, which actually says that the diamond sector is really subject to a very important fraud and that it is not a good idea to apply this diamond tax. It's someone from your party who says it, I don't know how you interpret it. Above all, I recall the sincerity of Mr. Vuye, who told us that we must accept the fraud of the diamond sector because it is in difficulty. When a sector is in trouble, you have to be able to give it gifts. I interpret this as tax evasion that has been approved!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip056x.u36	Mr President, I am not sure, but I think there is a problem with translation. I hear that Mr Van Hees repeats what I would have said, but I did not say it at all. I therefore suspect that there is a problem with the translation into French.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip056x.u37	Mr Vuye, I find it very low to attack Parliament's services at this hour when they spent several hours helping us with the work that is being done, including last night. In your place, I would like to thank them for all this work.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip056x.u38	I would also like to thank the translators. The problem is not a question of linguistic translation but of political translation. I have made the political translation of your remarks. There, clearly, in terms of political translation, you legitimized the fraud of the sector by saying that it was a difficult sector that needed to be helped and that it was therefore necessary to apply the government's measure, the diamond tax, which actually amounts to tax evasion. I will not dwell on the subject, we will have the opportunity to come back to the issue in the discussion of the programme law because the Cayman tax is finally also a legalisation of fraud since it is enough to pay a rate of 15% reduced by a series of measures, so much less, to benefit from a kind of regularization, of tax amnesty. To what extent is this government not a government that actively advocates for tax evasion? When we see that the revenue for fraud is derisory: 30 million euros compared to the... [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip056x.u39	EUR 30 million for the fight against fraud. [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip056x.u40	With the adjustment, you added 100 million and out of the 100 million, there are 70 million that come from the famous "permanent amnesty" regularization. You add 30 million that would come from the fight against Internet fraud, two or three other things like that. Unfortunately, with the adjustment, you really only add 30 million to the heading "fight against tax evasion".
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip056x.u41	Apparently, it is the minister who does not have control of it, since there are 30 million euros. We have said EUR 100 million, but 70 million relates to tax regularization. So, 100 minus 70, that's 30. But maybe you're leaving other algebraic bases! What are these 30 million euros compared to when comparing social fraud with tax fraud? EUR 49 million for social fraud. It is therefore clear that the budget devoted to the fight against social fraud, which is unlikely to be lower than that of tax fraud, will be increased in the context of the budgetary adjustment, as opposed to that devoted to tax fraud. Finally, I wonder how you calculate the amounts spent on combating tax fraud. In my view, you should provide a negative amount for tax evasion. Indeed, the FPS Finance will see a reduction of 600 staff. There will therefore be 600 fewer agents to combat tax fraud. It's not just the ISI that fights tax fraud. However, the ISI should have 100 additional officers. I don't know if it will ever be. But if so, these 100 people will come from other FPS Finance services. In doing so, other FPS Finance services will be deprived of 700 rather than 600 officers. In conclusion, it can be said that this government is doing a good job of promoting tax evasion, as it is doing in favour of the richest. There's a logic in all of this. It is true that you cannot be blamed for not showing overall consistency in your logic. When one favors the richest, when one knows that it is in the latter that the level of tax fraud is highest – the 10% of the richest people are responsible for 57% of tax fraud – it makes sense to maintain a policy that favours the enrichment of the richest and tax fraud that is, in the end, only one form of enrichment among others.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip056x.u42	Mr President, as I said to you, I did indeed withdraw from all the speeches I wanted to make to the various ministers because many things have already been said and it is of no use to prolong the debates too much. I still have a rather specific question that was originally intended for Mrs Marghem. I agreed with Mr Jamar to ask him because I think he will be able to answer it. It concerns the famous nuclear rent. It is known that since 2008, owners of nuclear power plants have contributed annually to the federal government in return for what is known as the nuclear rent. In 2012, the Di Rupo government set this contribution from the nuclear sector at €550 million per year. However, given the different unscheduled unavailability of certain nuclear reactors, the contribution has varied over the years. The 2012 budget increased to $550 million, the 2013 budget to $480 million and the 2014 budget to $471 million. Finally, you included 405 million in the 2015 initial budget. As a reminder, this famous nuclear contribution is based every year on the production of the previous year. The contribution entered in the 2015 budget must actually cover the year 2014. In January 2015, the Minister of Energy commissioned a study from the Federal Energy Regulator, the Electricity and Gas Regulatory Commission (CREG), and the National Bank of Belgium (NBB) to obtain an evaluation of the nuclear rent for 2014, in order to be able to set the 2015 budgets. In this study, dated 12 March, CREG estimates that the nuclear benefit for 2014 is between €420 million and €506 million. On the basis of this new estimate of the benefit of the nuclear sector, the government must therefore decide what the state is entitled to receive in order to feed into the 2015 budget. Two scenarios are therefore possible. Either the government contests the CREG study and maintains the $405 million in the budget, or the government adjusts its budget. In the context of budgetary adjustment, nothing is done. The government indicated that the March budget conclave had not addressed this problem, as this would be discussed in the coming weeks as part of the negotiations with Electrabel on the extension of Doel 1 and Doel 2. This explanation can be astonished, as the 2015 nuclear contribution relates to the year of production 2014 and has absolutely nothing to do with the extension of Doel 1 and Doel 2. Minister of the Budget, what is the final figure that will be retained? Why was the amount of this pension not adjusted in the budget adjustment? What will be the final decision on this matter?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip056x.u43	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, after five committee meetings and a 20-hour debate, I look forward to re-examining the subject and the figures. The committee meetings provided an opportunity to answer many questions and to discuss in detail all decisions and measures relating to the departments concerned. It has been monks' work over the past few weeks to explain, justify, argue, and I dare even say this sometimes. I found that the atmosphere in committee was particularly constructive and that the many questions were legitimate. Today there have been a lot of questions that have been asked on several occasions. Like the chairman of the committee, Mr. As Van Rompuy said, we must remember the fact that after an introductory statement, after hearing the Court of Auditors – with all due respect to this institution – and the very positive debates that resulted from it, contrary to what some have said, we have given relatively sharp answers. Secondly, there was a debate after which we gave a series of answers, first myself and then my colleague Johan Van Overtveldt. My brief experience in various assemblies makes me say that we have gone as far as possible in terms of democratic exercise in terms of budgetary clarity. As far as the Court of Auditors is concerned, wide-ranging interventions have echoed this in a different way, and I was able to observe that it has put forward very positive elements. On the other hand, I am not betraying the truth by saying that one of the members of the Court of Auditors said, at the end of its introduction, that it was particularly prudent, that it was positive and that we were in the right direction. That's what is said at the end. I'm not making it up.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip056x.u44	As I have already had the opportunity to say to you in committee, if you have a positive interpretation of this report, a whole series of elements and amounts still put a question to the Court of Auditors. Mr Dispa, who was the first to speak in committee, had noted the list of breaches found by the Court. Without taking up this long list drawn up by my colleague, I also told you. It must also be acknowledged that, alongside these comments, the Court of Auditors also drew attention to a whole series of missing elements.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip056x.u45	I will indeed return, Mr Crusnière. I'm not saying everything is perfect in the best of the worlds, that's not what I wanted to say. Above all, I wanted to stress that these calm debates took place and that, overall, the conclusions were in the right direction. The various stakeholders have moved from macroeconomic and macro-budgetary to very specific issues. They talked 12 times about the diamond tax. By omitting the carat tax and the tax shift, half of today's debates would have been withdrawn. Perhaps I'm more interested in seeing the budget trajectories. It is still a matter of budgetary control. We have sometimes talked more about symbols than actual policies in the short, medium and long term. I recognize that a few questions remain to be clarified, as in any budget, as in any coalition, regardless of the level of power. Everything is to be won every day, a few democrats as we are. However, let us look at the positive aspects. I'm here as Minister of Budget. Mr Dispa, to whom I have a great deal of sympathy, said "Happy who like Hervé made a short conclave". You don't necessarily have to make a long journey to be happy, you can have small happiness in life. I think it doesn't necessarily take four weeks of conclave, shambles, to get a serious job out! In fact, when it happened and if it had happened, we would not have failed to pin the fact that we were not getting along. I'd have heard you in another log. "How does this majority work?" "You imagine three, four weeks to give birth to this!" That's what you would have said. Here I see that after two days, two nights, we reached an agreement. But I also believe that it is too simple to analyse this exercise in terms of a two-day and two-night conclave. It is also a preparatory work of a whole majority, of a whole series of collaborators that are sometimes forgotten, regardless of the cabinets and the levels of power and who chew the work. There are then political decisions and arbitrations to be made. Here I would like to thank all those collaborators who have worked and who are sometimes too much in the shadows. I have said what I said about the Court of Auditors, but it must be borne in mind, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, that the opinion was much more positive than a few months ago. Let's recognize him. We had talked a lot about the first interdepartmental provision – maybe we'll come back in a few moments. At that time, I had been heavily attacked on justice. Today, I haven't heard a lot of people talk about this department. We may have heard three or five words about justice, perhaps a few words about this famous interdepartmental provision, perhaps a few words about the Court of Auditors' initial criticism of the original budget. Some have done so with confidence and wisdom, but I have not heard much about this interdepartmental security provision bis. I think it is important to report it too. Depending on whether one is in the majority or in the opposition, one often retains what one wants to retain to criticize or approve. For my part, I try to remain objective, although it has not escaped you that I am a minister in the majority. That being said, in response to Mr Laaouej and others, as far as trajectories are concerned, it was finally Mrs Temmerman and the Chairman of the Finance Committee who put the most finger on this question. Trajectories are essential. Whether you're a minister, a minister of the budget or a prime minister, you have to come back every week with every new report from the National Bank, the Monitoring Committee – it's the most important, without saying that the others are not – from the Plan Bureau or the OECD. I would point out that no one in the opposition has mentioned the OECD because it is the report that is most favourable to us with regard to economic recovery by putting forward 1.6 points. Mr. Laaouej, I'm not going back. Reports come from all the institutions and, at some point, we have to work on the basis of the figures, as we have them. These trajectories are indeed reassuring because of positive recovery factors, oil prices, interest rates, etc. However, nobody in the opposition noted the fact that, for example, the National Bank's dividends were going to decrease sharply. No one picked it up. It may not be a collective responsibility but an element of fact. At the time of the initial vote, by definition, we did not know the 2014 balance sheet. This results in a nominal deficit of 3.2 per cent, which was thought to be better. It was certainly an election year. There has been a period of day-to-day business, etc. Nevertheless, there is a deficit of 3.2 per cent rather than returning to below 3 per cent, as estimated for 2014. We are therefore going back to a much less positive assessment than we had hoped at the outset. In short, the trajectories are being followed overall and the various reports submitted to us show that we can really hope to achieve this balance and fiscal consolidation by 2018. We call austerity here what is responsible elsewhere, when we apply the same rules. Between rigour, responsibility and austerity, depending on whether you will be in opposition here or the majority there, you will change the term. What matters is the result. Very concretely, this remediation that we can achieve concerns entity I and entity II. Ms. Temmerman asked sensible questions earlier and quoted figures. Others cited it, simply they only talked about entity I and forgot to integrate entity II. This, however, represents an additional 0.1 million, 800 million, etc. Everyone has to do their part. In the concertation committee, the fact that our trajectory is drawn and that we will try to respect it as much as possible, or even to do better. Entity II said that for 2018 they agree to achieve the same result, namely sanitation, but with flexibility internally over time. Entity I, that is, the federal state, has not objected, which makes me say that the climate is relatively calmed in relation to everything we have heard. These trajectories, if reassuring, depend on relationships. In this regard, you will not have escaped that the next big meeting is set for 8 July, the date of the monitoring committee, which will give us enough work on the 2016 budget. It will not have escaped you either that at this moment, we are already thinking of the 2016 budget in reality. We can also think of the second or second budgetary adjustment that would come at the same time as the 2016 budget. However, we must be aware that if we want to meet the deadlines for Europe, with a few days' vacation, since I thought I read here or there that there were too many files before the House, in the meantime, we are already busy working for a month in bilateral meetings in the 2016 budget. There is sometimes also a gap between what an executive is doing and the bilaterals and, today, the vote in relation to the work of March, but in any case, a few weeks have passed since then. One element has been recurring in many speeches. Far be it from me to start polemics. It's Mr. Van Overtveldt who's running this case. I do not have the calendar of regular meetings to shed light on this famous sum of 750 million. Everyone has their opinion and everyone has expressed it. I would like to correct some statements that may seem surprising. Senior officials have worked honestly. I can't imagine they would have passed on numbers. I can't hear it without reacting, and I almost did it earlier. They worked honestly from the last figures of the tax year and thus, by definition, from the previous year's revenues that could be accessed at that time. This human precision seemed useful to me. Whatever you think of it, but I think everyone is now convinced of it, it has been done without the knowledge of the federal government. We learned it a few hours before the conclave.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip056x.u46	Minister, what you just said is still very surprising. As I understand it, you have learned almost at the same time as the Regions the latest figures, according to the new methodology, which have been provided by the tax administration with regard to the determination of the federal tax and, consequently, the regional additions. Is that what you just said?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip056x.u47	I ask you for the benefit of the doubt, because I am not a fetishist or a stakhanovist of days, hours and minutes. It seems to me that this figure came out on Thursday and that we started the conclave on Saturday morning.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip056x.u48	In the aftermath, the Prime Minister intervened triumphantly to say...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip056x.u49	It's becoming interpretation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip056x.u50	...to say, "We've made it." It does not come to mind, at that time, to point out to him: "Warning! Before we close our conclave, we must consult the Regions to see what they think of the figures provided by the tax administration." I would remind you that they were sent by e-mail to the various regional offices in charge of the budget. It does not come to your mind, in the spirit of federalism of cooperation, to apply a minimum of consultation by suspending your work and telling you that these figures must first be validated with the Regions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip056x.u51	You won't be able to get the Budget Minister I am to put oil on fire. Everyone went there from his comment, and we've already answered. Stop! I'm just saying for now that the working groups are working. Let us stop trying people who have worked in soul and conscience! There were various elements. The Court of Auditors gave us the third version. You imagined a fourth version on paper. Sampling may be somewhat reduced and would be reviewed to one in twenty taxpayers, which would amount to much more than 38,000. Sampling was recognized by everyone on the Consultation Committee as necessarily to be reviewed. I won't go back to the rest, I think we've scattered enough. Let us leave to the concertation committee the right to work under positive conditions in order to achieve the result. It happens that the Court of Auditors had a macro-economic approach that no one expected, which is furiously approaching what the officials of the tax administration had chosen. I will not rejoice at this or that. I simply note that the figure which was officially transmitted to us at the time of the conclave could be taken into account by the authorities concerned. For the rest, there may be the question of the royal decree to be elucidated, but a royal decree must be agreed upon. It was mentioned.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip056x.u52	Just before arriving at the royal decree which is indeed one of the important points, I will ask you the question of Mr Laaouej differently. If this were to be done again, if you received information on the Thursday before the conclave on Saturday, and with the experience you had under this conclave, would you not at that time take your phone to inform the Regions immediately and see with them how to take this information into account, at best. If it were to be done again, would you do the same again?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip056x.u53	I know you're too smart in your question traps, Mr. Nollet. And if it were to be done again, would you still do politics? What if it was to be done again, and if, and if, and if? If it were to be done again, rewriting the story is always a very simple thing and many would rewrite it. I won't rewrite it. That has been done. Here, in my opinion, we are talking about an amount that will turn around a few tens of millions maybe out of the 750 million. Mr. Laaouej, I say "maybe." By definition, that means that we don't know. I know you like to turn on the fire again, but don't count on me! One day, I was questioned by both Mr Laaouej and another member of this noble assembly on Theseos, about the 400 million deficit that was to be found in social security. I felt like I was in front of people who rejoiced at the bad news that we could encounter at the federal level. I just want to say that I see the future, I see the numbers that are there. The Court of Auditors said "with a macro-economic approach", after a demonstration. Mr. Van Rompuy remembers. No one has dismantled this demonstration before the Court of Auditors. No one! No one dared to say she was wrong. With the famous numerator, it leads to 72 million differences. No one said it at that time. We said it the next day when they left.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip056x.u54	It was not a question of contesting or not challenging the Court of Auditors' methodology. It comes with a new methodology that does not derive from the special funding law, the methodology that was adopted by the Finance FPS prior to its change of methodology, or the new methodology adopted by the Finance FPS. We could indeed have discussed the sex of angels with the Court of Auditors. His macro-economic approach was acknowledged. It was simply pointed out that if you agreed with this macro-economic approach to estimating tax revenues in 2015, then you also had to admit that there was a reduction in the PPI of more than two billion for the federal level. For the rest, the Court of Auditors, distributed in session, receives a relatively complex methodological note with a number of equations. We took note of that. But that wasn't the point. The topic was to understand how the FPS Finances, between the time of the initial budget 2015 and the time of adjustment, reduced the PPI revenue by $3 billion for the determination of regional additions. It was simply this question that we tried to find an answer. Mr Jamar, as far as we are concerned, we are not trying to turn on the fire again. Actually, we're trying to get two things from you. First, this 750 million represents a gain for the federal level that remains random because litigation is not exhausted. You said it yourself. Working groups continue to be established and to meet. The consultation would take place and the Royal Decree was based on which the methodology should be finalized. The first thing we want to hear from you is whether you are going to succeed in this process of consultation and whether you are going to lead it. The second element is to consider that these 750 million are, as far as your budget adjustment is concerned, a random element. And this random element must lead you to be very cautious about determining the structural balance. The question was discussed earlier, and with the exception of 195 million, if I am not mistaken, the rest of the 750 were allocated to improving the structural balance, although, in your opinion, as a matter of prudence, part was allocated to the reserve. Beyond these two questions, I am not trying to argue. The first is intended to be constructive and forward-looking, in order to learn from the past so as not to relive the same experience on the occasion of the 2016 budget. With regard to the second element, show a little humility about reading your adjustment, as well as admit that on the question of the structural balance you may have failed to be cautious, by assigning part of that 750 million to the improvement of the balance while the recipe is random.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip056x.u55	I like to hear you, but we're not on a television set so I think we have to let the bands work. You will not have me in a word that would be too widespread, you will not have me in that field. The groups are working, there will be conclusions. I'm just telling you I'm serene. When you talk about structural balance, Mr Laaouej, on one side or the other, of entities I and II for Europe and of the trajectory, if you analyse these budget tables and these I + II trajectories correctly, the result will be the same, whatever the result of the group's work. I am sorry, but European authorities are looking at the trajectory of the Belgian house. As a result, the very fact of having 750 million, the logical application... One might imagine that there was no incident and that everyone agreed on this amount, which was explained by Mr D'Hondt, President of the FPS Finances, in front of the Walloon Assembly, who spoke of an advance. In fact, the amounts in question were considered at the federal level in 2011-12. It is therefore not a question of retrocession, but of accounting and knowing what the shares are in relation to the advances and, finally, of finding the exact figure. In this respect, one can only agree from a purely technical point of view. For the rest, when a government acted as it did by taking these 750 million, applying the rules on the matter, on the basis that, on the basis of decisions almost taken collectively, over three years, 190 million would be allocated in non-structural terms and that 180 million would be allocated as a reserve, in other words in neutralisation SEC, it can be said, as the Court of Auditors has said, that it was particularly prudent. I want us to have all the trials of intent or other things, but, in the meantime, I think I can say that in terms of the regularity of the figures, we are relatively calm. It is not a question of looking forward to such a position, who has lost, who has won, and who has taken the necessary precautionary measures. Having said that, I am not Minister of Finance. I think I provided all the answers I could bring.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip056x.u56	Mr Jamar, I asked whether the Minister of Finance was prevented or not. We were told that he was attending a Eurogroup meeting. That is a respectable reason, but it is certain that I would have liked to debate it with him today. You say that, vis-à-vis Europe, Belgium is one and the same entity, that Europe does not care where the structural deficit is, it looks at Belgium as a whole. Of course! That is why it was absurd to adopt a triumphalist tone when there was this news about the 750 million. Politically, as far as Belgium is concerned internally, the federal level could make a very simple conclave, but on the other hand it sent the hot potato back to the Regions. Politically, it was not neutral. That is why the attitude of a number of members of your government at the highest level was unacceptable. I'm not talking about you, Mr. Jamar. The reason why I am insisting on this point of the 750 million is not for the pleasure of polemicing, nor to rekindle the fire. It is a question of ensuring that this does not happen again and of drawing your attention to the fact that it is unacceptable to upset what is the essence of our federalism, that is, cooperation and consultation. We would like to hear you take on your responsibilities as Minister of Budget and say that in the future you will look after the grain. If the FPS Finance decides to change methodology and this has a negative impact on the Regions, you will organise a consultation, a working meeting. It would honor you. I even think that would allow you, why not, to have a little echo in the press. To date, no member of the federal government has strongly stated that this should no longer happen and that we all gain cooperation between the federal and the regions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip056x.u57	As a complement, since you are so looking to the future - and I can follow you in this regard - say it! It would be a basis for a new start. In so doing, the signal that this will not happen again would be launched. This positive sign could be applauded. If you do, I will no longer intervene throughout the evening and even the night.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip056x.u58	I have time till tomorrow night! Having said that, I did not wait for your advice to bring together the ministers of the budget who will be able to tell you, in time non-suspecto, in this case in early March, and thus work on much more important issues such as the ESA 2010 standards in application in Entities II and local authorities. For the rest, you can always hold a small hook, but what matters is to move in the right direction. Unlike others who have spoken in the press, I will never use words that are difficult to hear. For the EUR 124 million, Mr Laaouej will recognise it with me - as everyone here - even though there has been a bit of floating in the interpretation, this sum represents the cumulative effect of the inflation rate, growth, VAT, etc., intended to be discounted. In this respect, the Wallonia-Brussels federation can have a little money as it does not have its own fiscal means, etc. As has been the case for years, this will be applicable in the 2016 budget and will be applied in accordance with the regulations, in the broad sense, foreseen in this area. I come back to the bulk of the budget on which we have avoided talking. Let me remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that, despite everything: - An additional 10.6 million was provided for the remuneration of prison staff; - 19 million to pay the magistrates of the Judicial Order; - 4.5 million for the application of the BHV law in order to complete the framework - no one has recalled it; - 10.1 million for seconded police personnel; - $6.4 million to pay the costs of justice and prosecution of the FPS Finances; - 32 million in liquidation credits for interest subsidies for green loans. I still hear Mr Nollet talk about it in November, but I have not been told about it either today or during the work in committee; - €3.3 million for the Handicare project; - EUR 2.6 million for the Fund to combat over-indebtedness. In fact, we will continue to have good relations with the people involved in the sector in my office, because we must continue to assume responsibility, I am thinking in particular of debt mediation, etc. In particular, Mr Gilkinet referred to it. We're working on it. EUR 3.4 million for support for combined transport and EUR 7.9 million for support for diffuse traffic. EUR 2.4 million for the policy of large cities: this was a strong demand that was also heard at the time. The big cities are the local authorities. The arrears of the justice system: the famous 101.4 million. As I speak to you, 38,000 bills have been considered by the government. We were also told a lot about the bills that go back several years. I would tell you that there is also a whole series of ministers that could be involved. We want to clear those bills. Logically, as I said in committee and I confirm here, the Institute of National Accounts should give its approval to charge them for arrears even if, it must be acknowledged, the Court said that it was not very orthodox. Even if, Mr Piedboeuf, as a good municipalist, in our communal policy, when an imputation is applied to arrears, they are generally linked to previous exercises. We are here in the right direction – if I may say so – to get those 100 million arrears. This is still good news for 38,000 invoices, as many independents, translators, interpreters, experts and others. It is clear that, for the future, we will, with the assistance of Minister Geens, set up everything we need to ensure that this kind of phenomenon does not happen again. As far as interdepartmental provisions are concerned, I'm saying "them." I wink at Mr. Crusnière who kindly called me Mary Poppins a few months ago. It still worked. Maybe it exists Mary Poppins. This worked because the approximately 290 million euros, including a large part for staff, were reorganized, 100 million having been entered for the Department of Defence, while retaining the primacy of what should be a so-called "classic" interdepartmental provision, i.e. an optimisation of federal services (Optifed) in terms of personnel and certification, Belgian State convictions, damages to which one is exposed, etc. Cybersecurity in this case had already been committed. We have already committed up to a few million euros to customs and excise duties. In short, on the day we speak, some 20 million of an interdepartmental envelope of about 150 million euros is used. Ms Wilmès quoted the percentage. It is certainly at the end of the year that we use it a little more. However, having used only a small part of this first interdepartmental envelope at the end of June, we are relatively serene and "at ease" unless a disaster should occur. I think it was Mr Dispa who referred more specifically to the interdepartmental security envelope. As I said in committee, it is somewhat the non-structural counterpart of the liquidation bonus scheme, i.e. EUR 236 million. I have played transparency and I continue to do so by making it clear that, of the EUR 236 million, EUR 200 million has been set up in one shot envelope in the field of security in the broad sense of the term. This envelope is on a very good track of discussion. My services have collected more than 300 records from different departments. Normally, this envelope should be distributed shortly, in any case in part. Sometimes you have to be predictable, if I may say so. But we can think of politicians like the military on the streets. There is a lot of talk about it, but there is a time when they have to be paid for in their missions, police or customs. I have heard many questions about the scanner in Antwerp, Liège or Charleroi-Gosselies. All this can be taken into account, in the same way as it is not excluded, for example, that the Belgocontrol bill can also be taken into account. All of this must be the subject of ultimate negotiations and arbitration within our government, which is the executive.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip056x.u59	I would like more information. You've received 300 records. Did you make the total of the requests? Can we know the order of magnitude, to know to what extent you will be able to bring them, or not, into the volume of the provision?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip056x.u60	We are finalizing this. In the next few days, we will be able to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip056x.u61	Has the calculation not yet been done?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip056x.u62	It's being finalized. I have a first calculation in mind, but it's too early to say more. I'm very careful of Sioux.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip056x.u63	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip056x.u64	I am simply telling you that this security provision, which did not exist, will be able to be used for a whole series of things. I also said in committee: it is not impossible for this to happen within the framework of this famous interdepartmental provision. Today, it is up to us to make a governmental arbitration, which is quite logical, and then to submit it as a matter of law, whether for certain arrears or for certain investments one shot, since it is a non-structural interdepartmental envelope. When I speak of a non-structural envelope, I am referring to investments. For example, there is no question of paying personnel directly with this. These are investments in terms of security in the broadest sense. I want to make that clear.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip056x.u65	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip056x.u66	You can call me Mary Poppins as much as you want! I think I'm lucky. So I have no problem with that. I think I've covered many questions. I'll take a few things back. Mr Laaouej, we have talked a lot about a certain issue on which I will not come back. You also referred to the various taxes on which my colleague, Mr. Van Overtveldt, replied in committee, under the programme law, yesterday. From what I heard of debates between the majority and the opposition, I believe that these were more pleadings for or against than anything else. Mr Gilkinet, who is no longer here, asked me the question of the 2014 balance sheet, the 3.2% and the trajectories. Everyone mentioned the tax shift. I would remind you of a tax law concerning the application of the tax on natural persons. Everyone says we have to go very fast. It will apply on January 1, 2016 for 2015 revenues, except for anticipated revenues. For indirect taxation, this could go faster. Personally, I do not like these terms tax shift. I think that this will be more of a reform, which is expected to take shape by the summer. I haven't heard the Prime Minister say anything else in weeks and months. I don't think you're running out of files, according to the press I was able to read yesterday. I think that after only a few months, we have been here since mid-October, it is not extraordinarily serious not to have an agreement on this famous tax shift or tax reform.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip056x.u67	Mr Jamar, you say that the outline should be known by the summer. Summer was two or three days ago!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip056x.u68	That's right! I said before July 21. Playing words is always very comical. We've always said "by July 21st."
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip056x.u69	Or, as my colleague says, I think it's worth saying on the microphone, it's probably going to be Indian summer!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip056x.u70	This reminds you of a few files, obviously! We must leave it to the government and then the parliament to work later this year, but in the broad lines that should logically be put on the table by 21 July. I'm saying "logically." I don't have control over operations. I've been asked about the ISI, although I'm not the head of this department. We're still talking about Mr. Crombez, Mr. Devries, Mr. Clerfayt. In another life, I was also Secretary of State for the Fight against Tax Fraud. I made 600 million with the fight against VAT carousels. Mr. Laaouej, you know that. We also forget Mr. Zenner who came before me.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip056x.u71	You have included in the revenue of the fight against tax fraud the amnesty on diamond stocks.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip056x.u72	With the help of the socialists. Mr. Vande Lanotte was Minister of Budget, if you remember. Today, we are being administered a lot of moral lessons... fine. There was no question of amnesty. It was a valuation of stocks. Let's call things by their name! We must not fear what we have done.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip056x.u73	Was it a bad experience you did?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip056x.u74	I've had better ones. And you, are you happy with everything you've done?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip056x.u75	No. So it's a bad memory?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip056x.u76	I would like to remind you that the PS and sp.a were in business when we started this re-evaluation of the inventory for the diamond dealers. [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip056x.u77	I listened to you earlier and I thought I could afford that little hint, that little blink of an eye. Of course, when it bothers you, it's over! I'm coming back to the ISI. His agents are going to work in-house for a hundred people. Among the experienced staff, six agents, perhaps sixteen – but I have to deal with Mr. Van Overtveldt, because this was not directly within my jurisdiction – will come to strengthen the ranks of the top-level officials of the ISI. I've heard a lot of things. Mr. Van Hees, you talked about social cuts. But where are they? The wellness envelope will be used 100%. Five twelfths of correction of the non-occurrence index jump will be used. It has just been announced: 22 million in compensation to the CPAS of the cities and municipalities have just been decided and allocated. No one has referred here to the lump sum deductions. However, this afternoon, I was told about the poor independent little – I was independent in another life – the little employee and the small worker... The lump sum deductions will still be doubled for 2016. I don't know where you see the social cuts. The only tax increase concerned excise duties. Of course, there are other taxes like those you listed throughout this debate: carat, Cayman, intercommunal,... These are very specific taxes or taxes. Mr Gilkinet asked me about 54% of public expenditure. We're not going to argue in his absence, it would be too easy for me. Mr Dispa has made a whole series of diagnoses - beyond Ulysses! - the sampling confirms that this would be 1 out of 20 for the calculation of the famous regional problem of "transfers of 550 million".
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip056x.u78	Compared to the 30,000 that were part of the previous sampling, what does this change?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip056x.u79	I received it this afternoon by text. As much as we know the number of Belgians, so much I do not know how many taxpayers are because we have to count with households, etc. I'm not going to go into data that I don't know. I do not have the number and therefore cannot communicate it to you. You have asked the legitimate question about Greece, hence all the meetings of our excellent Finance Minister, and the impact that this could have. All economists multiply and compete in terms of possible financial risks "if and if". So I will not say any more about this. Mr Dispa, there are a lot of things you have said in a weighted way that I can agree with. There are files that are on the way but roughly modo with the provisions, with the corrections that we made in relation to the initial, very honestly, I do not see an abandoned area, I do not see any area in arrears. If we have to find a solution, we have a possibility of second budgetary control anyway and we will take on our responsibilities. But let's admit that we were able to correct the shot. I would add that, when we talk about austerity next year, it will be 3.22% instead of 3.2224%, I explain to myself, on investments, how it works and on personnel policy. If we want to follow this famous fiscal trajectory while in the right direction at the social and human level, I think we are tracking things properly. In fact, I have not heard any criticisms, except perhaps Mrs Temmerman on the return effect of new policies. Some members of the majority spoke on this subject, whether it is about starters, about horeca, about flexi-jobs, digital, etc. I haven't heard a lot of criticism. So I will say, like Mr. Van Hees, only who says word consent. In any event, I understood how he could interpret situations at times.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip056x.u80	Mr. Jamar, you're going a little fast. We were limited by time. Everything couldn't have been developed. On the so-called tax shelter measure extended to the refinancing of companies, we have made serious criticisms in the Finance Committee, not on the objective but on the modalities. Mr. Van Rompuy can testify. We really believe that, unfortunately, this measure can have an unwanted budgetary cost, as soon as there are – according to a tax specialist who was none other than Mr Geens' former Chief of Staff, when he was at the FPS Finances – shortcomings that will lead to the creation of tax engineering spaces and that will divert the measure from its fundamental objective. I do not repeat here all the examples that I have been able to mention. But we're far from adhering to all the measures you're taking. Far from it!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip056x.u81	You already adhere to a few. It's already a great thing. With regard to Mr Crusnière's question on the energy sector, the figures he had cited were correct. It seems to me to have confirmed them in committee. Nevertheless, it seems to me that a nuance was not made, namely "year n-1". Today, for the determination of the nuclear rent to be collected from the 2015 budget, it is necessary to rely on 2014. It is by definition "year n-1". You gave us the numbers from the CREG. I think it would be useless to reveal ourselves at a crucial point in the negotiations in relation to a figure that could be obtained, since by definition we are trying, for the sake of the State, to obtain the most correct sum. Nevertheless, it must be recognized that difficulties have arisen. But I'm not going to go back to debates that have been passionate about you for a few weeks. There was this problem, of which little has been said: the sabotage of Doel 4. This poses a potential problem of interpretation in that, according to the mode of operation, it is when the AFCN says "stop" that the calculation of the annuity to be collected can be called into question. Here we are facing some kind of force majeure. Is the instruction completed? I cannot put myself in the position of investigators in this area. And who, if any, should bear the indirect cost of this sabotage? It is also part – I don't like the word negotiations – of the deals that the cabinet and the minister in charge of the government's case have to deal with.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip056x.u82	Minister, if I understand your answer, which prevents the minister from coming to answer this evening, does that mean that negotiations, discussions or negotiations – but I think the word deals is the one you used – are underway to determine the amount that Electrabel must pay for the Doel 4 part?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip056x.u83	Since every word can be important when it is misinterpreted in a tweet or elsewhere, I will read to you in full what I, as Budget Minister, have addressed to the Court of Auditors among the remarks it has made. That way, there will be no contempt. According to the Court of Auditors, an overvaluation in the contribution of the energy sector is not excluded, which will have an impact, yes or no, on the balance of State financing. The 2015 Tracks and Means budget provides for a revenue of €405 million for the 2015 nuclear allocation contribution. This contribution has not yet been organised by law for 2015. As a reminder, the nuclear allocation contribution is a 'tax' covering the installed capacity of year n-1, in this case 2014. Since then, the following new developments have taken place: 1. The new study of CREG: I will not read everything again because Mr Crusnière has alluded to it. This is the whole problem of the number and range of the CREG. 2. The existence of the sabotage at Doel 4: we replied on behalf of the government that the consideration or not to be taken into account of the contribution of distribution of the unavailability period of the Doel 4 unit whose closure follows an act of sabotage must still be appreciated. Indeed, this is the first time that we have faced such a case. It is important to recall that usually only forced and recorded judgments by the AFCN are taken into consideration for unavailability that would result in a potential right to reduce the allocation contribution. That question should therefore be considered. Depending on the evolution of the discussions, it is possible that certain measures will have to be taken to adjust the Ways and Means budget. That is what I am able to tell you about this.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip056x.u84	In your speech, just before you read, you talked about dealings with the owner. In this part, you don't talk about it anymore. That is my only question, because I knew your answer to the Court of Auditors. Yes or no, are discussions underway with the owner to see clearly how each of them will consider the amount to be taken into account for Doel 4? Are there any deals, as you seemed to say in the gallery?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip056x.u85	I'll read again what I said, "The consideration or not..." Look, I'm not gonna fall into your trap, I'm saying it for the fourth time. I am not able to tell you if there is a tractation or if there will be one and if it can mean this or that. Simply, I'm telling you the objective situation. I do not want, at the cost of a word that would be misinterpreted, to put at risk any budgetary aspect whatsoever. Let it be very clear: I will not go back to that. You can still try, it does not cause me any difficulty.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip056x.u86	I'll go back to what you told us right before, since the transcript will be accessible to us, and I'll find the word "tractation" to see exactly what the sentence you said was.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip056x.u87	I would point out that I am sticking to what I have read, because this subject is extremely important. I therefore stick to the reply addressed to the Court of Auditors. I think it would be difficult for everyone to go further at this stage. I won't say any more. I think this was Mr Crusnière's last question. Colleagues, I would like to thank Mr Vuye, Mrs Wilmès and all the speakers for their positive insights. And Mr Van Rompuy also in a macro-budgetary approach. I think this is the basis of everything. It's so you can make the best of it. That is what I could say, Mr President, at the end of this plenary session. It is clear that the debates in committee were excellent and very positive even if I suspect the vote somewhat.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip056x.u88	Mr President, I would like to make a few considerations. First of all, I regret the fact that we have not been able to have a debate with the Minister of Finance. Mr. Jamar did not answer almost any of the questions that related to new tax revenues, including questions related to the evaluation of the returns of these new measures. From this point of view, we cannot be satisfied with the debate we have had, unfortunately. Secondly, it is regrettable that Mr Jamar did not wish to commit himself as Budget Minister to say that he would in future be the guarantor of fiscal federalism and fiscal federalism from the point of view of consultation and cooperation. That is a shame, Mr Jamar, I think that you, as Minister of Budget, could have said that what happened is not acceptable and that it is not possible to jeopardize our institutional model in order to allow one of the levels of power to make a small budget conclave quickly done well, without thinking about the consequences for others. I believe that this is a very serious precedent and it is regrettable that you have not made a commitment on this matter. For the rest, Mr President, of course, we are absolutely not convinced by the government's replies and therefore we will obviously vote against this budgetary adjustment, as we voted against the budget.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip056x.u89	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The limited general discussion is closed. The limited general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip056x.u90	We begin the discussion of the articles of the draft law amending the Resources Budget for the financial year 2015. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1026/1) We will proceed to the discussion of the sections of the bill that provide for the adjustment of the Ways and Means budget for the 2015 fiscal year. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1026/1)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip056x.u91	No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip056x.u92	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. We shall begin the discussion of the articles of the draft law on the first adjustment of the general expenditure budget for the financial year 2015. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1027/1+5) We proceed to the discussion of the sections of the bill containing the first adjustment to the General Estimates for the 2015 fiscal year. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1027/1+5) No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip056x.u93	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 25 June 2015 at 2.15 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Thursday, 25 June 2015, at 2.15 p.m.
