ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-24-54-commissie-ic095x.u1	Mr President, Prime Minister, you visited Davos on the occasion of the World Economic Forum. In the press, you announced that you would act as "Belgium's trade representative". Some 15 meetings with representatives of foreign countries and business owners active in Belgium, in addition to many informal meetings, were thus included in your agenda. In your opinion, this was an opportunity to sell your socio-economic programme, with your main argument to fill the Belgian wage gap. I would therefore like to ask you, Prime Minister, the following questions. What is your assessment of this Forum for our country? What formal and informal meetings have you attended and with which actors? Has the issue of free trade agreements been addressed? Finally, were other topics than socio-economic aspects addressed at these meetings?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-24-54-commissie-ic095x.u2	Mr President, I visited the Davos Economic Forum between 21 and 23 January 2015. It is an appointment that I believe is essential because it brings together the major international economic players as well as political leaders representing all continents. I'm making a positive assessment of it. The first was to meet the representatives of the economic circles and to present them with Belgium's assets and the government's plans for the next legislature. I believe that these communication and explanatory efforts are crucial in trying to attract investment to Belgium or, when actors are already present in Belgium, to convince them to expand their presence there. I am thinking of both the industrial sector and the service sector. We have received a very favourable reception from foreign companies which generally evaluate positively the government's socio-economic programme and which show a great deal of interest for Belgium. This one, I repeat, has many advantages, particularly its location in the heart of Europe. Belgium has traditionally hosted a Belgian breakfast in Davos, Belgium's power breakfast, which brings together about 100 companies with interests in our home or are likely to have one in the future. Their Majesties King Philip and Queen Mathilde attended, as well as Minister-President Geert Bourgeois. I gave a speech to praise the qualities of Belgium. Minister-President Bourgeois also made a speech. It was then a question of listening to and talking to different operators about the problems, the difficulties they are encountering in the context of a possible establishment in Belgium. These exchanges are very useful in understanding the strategy of companies and the criteria that encourage them or not to develop investments at home. I have also had many bilateral meetings with CEOs of foreign companies from all continents that are already active at home or are likely to become active in the future. In this context, the issue of free trade agreements was not specifically or primarily addressed in Davos. It is in many other fora. It is systematically done in the framework or on the margins of the European Councils held in Brussels. I understand that another question on this subject will allow me to say a word about it. In addition, I participated in two seminars, one on innovation and the other on growth in Europe.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-24-54-commissie-ic095x.u3	Prime Minister, I thank you for these answers and the few details that you have kindly conveyed to our committee. I am somewhat disappointed that the socio-economic aspects are not addressed in these places. Indeed, in terms of investment, it is important to recall the environmental and social standards that are dear to us.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-24-54-commissie-ic095x.u4	Mr President, Prime Minister, I immediately follow up on this other subject, which I am fond of. On 5 February 2015 the eighth joint meeting of the Belgian and Luxembourg governments was held in Brussels. In the conclusions of this meeting, it is thus stated that, taking into account the new European context, the two governments undertake to take the necessary steps for the ratification and notification of the investment promotion and protection agreements already signed within the framework of the Belgo-Luxembourg Economic Union (BLEU). They also stated that they would like to discuss together how to finalize and endorse the investment agreements currently under negotiation. On the other hand, the two governments do not rule out that in the future agreements can be negotiated on an ad hoc basis with countries they consider to be priorities. To our knowledge, we are talking about at least twenty potential treaties. However, it seems quite clear that many of these future treaties contain an arbitration clause similar to that massively rejected by European citizens in the Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership (TTIP) negotiations. Should I remind you that this clause allows private companies to claim millions of euros of compensation when States simply use their legitimate right to legislate? Let us remember that Belgium itself is subject to proceedings brought by a Chinese investor concerning compensation for a loss of EUR 2.8 billion. Prime Minister, what are the treaties and countries covered by the conclusions of this BeLux Summit? In negotiating these, what is our country's position on the inclusion of binding social, environmental and health standards, in particular through the inclusion of safeguard clauses? What is your position on the inclusion of an arbitration clause in these treaties? Finally, what is your position on preserving the ability of states to legislate?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-24-54-commissie-ic095x.u5	Mr President, the treaties discussed at the Joint Belgian-Luxembourg Council of Ministers are investment protection and promotion agreements which the Belgian-Luxembourg Economic Union negotiates and concludes with third countries. The objective of such an agreement is to provide investors with guarantees of maximum protection such as the guarantee of fair and equitable treatment of investment, the most-favoured-nation clause in order to prevent discrimination, the obligation to compensate for private ownership, the free transfer of income and the creation of an adequate legal framework within which possible investment disputes can be settled. At present 58 such agreements are in force, 9 have been initialled and 27 have been signed, but have not yet entered into force: they are either awaiting ratification by the third country, awaiting notification or awaiting ratification in our various parliaments. I will provide you with an exhaustive list of the agreements and their status. In order to preserve Belgium's reputation as a reliable contracting party, it is important to ratify and promptly notify the BLEU agreements that were signed in the past with the consent of all governments. The federal government is working with the governments of the federated entities on this issue. The clauses for safeguarding social, environmental and health standards contained in the agreements shall be laid down between the parties: either, on the one hand, Federal Belgium, the federated entities and Luxembourg and, on the other hand, third countries on the basis of a model text from the BLEU. Generally, Belgium supports the inclusion of such clauses in bilateral investment protection and promotion agreements. These agreements provide that disputes between an investor and a Contracting Party shall be submitted either to the national courts of the Contracting Party in whose territory the investment was made or to international arbitration with the consent of the Contracting Parties. It goes without saying that this clause cannot under any circumstances prevent any State, Belgium in this case, from legislating, for example, for the protection of public health or the protection of morals. I would like to make available to you the exhaustive lists of the agreements in question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-24-54-commissie-ic095x.u6	Prime Minister, thank you for your answer. As I understand it, the arbitration clause is different from the one in the TTIP.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-24-54-commissie-ic095x.u7	I do not know the terms of the TTIP since it has not yet been validated! Negotiations are under way. There is one point of attention that I systematically mention in all my bilateral meetings, and I did so again with Joe Biden a few weeks ago in Brussels, which concerns the problem of dispute resolution. This is one of the difficulties in negotiating the TTIP, but it is not the only one. There are other difficulties that are much less discussed and perhaps even more worrying.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-24-54-commissie-ic095x.u8	I am pleased to hear that you have concerns about TTIP, you who, on other occasions, have told me that I want to move forward quickly on the finalization of this agreement. I am very pleased to hear that there are concerns and that, therefore, you may be less inclined to sign this agreement quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-24-54-commissie-ic095x.u9	I'm glad you're happy! I don't vary in my speech. In this negotiation, as in any negotiation, there are delicate points, points of attention, serious points and this does not detract from my will and hope that we can quickly reach an agreement by succeeding in finding appropriate solutions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-24-54-commissie-ic095x.u10	Prime Minister, I come back to the issue of the fight against social dumping, and in particular the posting of workers. You know that this is a matter of concern to me, as it should be of concern to everyone. The shortcomings of the directive, the case law of the European Court of Justice, the lack of ambition of the Commission and of some Member States are undermining our social Europe, which is so difficult to build. Today, in the absence of common European safeguards and social standards, unfair competition between European workers and also between Member States has replaced freedom of movement. This sometimes leads to situations of human exploitation. It is therefore urgent that Europe take action to combat these abuses and put an end to social dumping, which is harmful to everyone – whether it be workers or companies. The European Commission has proposed a directive to implement the above-mentioned directive, which has made some progress during the previous parliamentary term. However, this is not enough. We can both agree. During the previous legislature, Belgium was particularly active in combating this social dumping, notably by organising a Benelux social summit. At the end of the meeting, the Benelux members agreed on a number of actions, in particular a treaty on cross-border cooperation. I come to my questions. What concrete actions does your government intend to take to combat social dumping in the European Union? I am talking about internal measures, but also at European level. Free movement should not lead to the destruction of our social protection and social standards. Do you intend to include this theme on the Council's agenda? What follow-up has the government set aside for the Benelux Social Summit? What's the status of the actions you've decided on? At the joint meeting you mentioned a moment ago, did you have an opportunity to address the issue of dumping and the posting of workers in particular? Thank you very much for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-24-54-commissie-ic095x.u11	Mr Daerden, like many others, I share this observation: social dumping is an issue that we are facing and for which it is necessary to act and mobilize not through speeches but through actions. Decisions must be made. The Council of Ministers of 5 December 2014 – only six weeks after the government's installation – validated a concrete, operational plan to combat social dumping with a few lines of strength that I want to highlight. The first is an integrated and focused approach to prevention, detection, control and punishment. We call on the inspection services to define a minimum number of controls within the framework of the action plan to combat social fraud 2015. For this purpose, more use is made of data mining and data matching. In addition, the prosecution policy should be harmonized with these actions in close consultation with the College of Attorneys General. This first point clearly shows the cross-cutting nature of the decisions and we must be mobilized on such a subject. Secondly, the relevant approach must be both national, but also European, and also within the Benelux framework, because we can imagine working more quickly within the Benelux framework. Sometimes Benelux has been at the forefront, anticipating subsequent decisions at European level. Finally, initiatives must be taken to achieve effective measures later this year, in consultation with the social partners and the political and public bodies concerned. More specifically at the national level, first of all: - fight first and foremost against secondment through mailbox companies and defend a European minimum reference wage in each Member State; - combating fraudulent detachments through targeted actions (data mining and data matching); - to define a partnership agreement with those sectors which are more exposed to fraud than others (construction, transport, etc.).); - combating false self-employed people and constantly fighting to put this issue of social dumping at the top of the European agenda; - to collaborate structurally between services and institutions and to engage closely and continuously with sectors at risk; - transposing the new European implementing directive on labour law; - promote cross-border cooperation between social inspection services and activate bilateral anti-fraud conventions. At European and Benelux level, this point has been systematically addressed in all the contacts we have had: the first bilateral meetings with the Prime Minister of the Netherlands, Mark Rutte, or Xavier Bettel; and in the context of the joint meeting of the Luxembourg and Belgian governments. I hope, at the next Benelux Summit in a few months, that we will be able to monitor the progress of the decisions implemented following the previous Benelux Summit, at which it was decided to make them a priority issue. I felt a very strong political will in my two colleagues Xavier Bettel and Mark Rutte to try to make progress in the Benelux on this important subject. Finally, we believe that close contact should also be maintained with the Belgian Commissioner for Employment and Social Affairs, Mrs Thyssen, who is responsible for these matters. I conclude: freedom to provide services is an essential part of the internal market but must not hinder sound national and international competition. As you can see, the government intends to ensure that this issue is followed with great vigilance at Belgian, Benelux and European Union level.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-24-54-commissie-ic095x.u12	Prime Minister, I welcome your various declarations of intent and the actions taken by your Government, both internally and at the level of your Benelux meetings. I note that you want to put this issue on the agenda in a systematic manner. I will allow myself to come back to you for follow-up and see in concrete terms what this will bring and the problems that it will solve. We agree: this is an important problem for workers and for society in general. The solution is not a levelling down of wages. You are talking about a minimum wage, which is an important element, but we should also talk about minimum social protection throughout Europe in order to avoid a levelling down at that level. I think this is all going in the right direction if it happens. In conclusion, I would be tempted to say that I am all the more surprised by the MR resolution and by one of your Members, Mr Clarinval, on the subject. As if the government was not taking sufficient initiatives and as if a motion for a resolution had to be tabled to indicate what to do. We will have an opportunity to discuss this tomorrow in the Social Affairs Committee, but I can tell him that the government is active in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-24-54-commissie-ic095x.u13	Mr Daerden, I thank you for your encouragement, which goes right to my heart! I think that Mr David Clarinval wanted above all to ensure that Parliament, including your political group, could support the action of the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-24-54-commissie-ic095x.u14	Mr Prime Minister, together with Mr Dallemagne, on 13 January I asked a question in our committee about the hacking of Belgacom and the cybersecurity strategy of our country. We then focused, among other things, on the creation of the Cybersecurity Centre, on which you had questions in plenary from Mr Deseyn and Mr Dallemagne, and on which you provided further clarification, which I will not do now. At the heart of this question is the Belgian cybersecurity strategy, because you announced at the time that in Davos, which was just mentioned, you would establish contacts with those responsible in the social media sector to find out what is possible. As we read, you would indeed have had conversations with David Drummond, Google's director, to ask for the help of the Internet giant in controlling and preventing terrorist activities, without fundamentally reducing the surfer's freedom. I'm referring to your statement. What contacts did you have specifically about cybersecurity in Davos? The other subjects have just been discussed. What views have you taken and what proposals have you made? What specific arrangements were made? In what way will Google help us check data? Does it do that itself? Does that happen in conjunction with the security of the state? Who will take on what role? Who's the actor for our country? Can each citizen be subject to such controls? In an article by De Standaard you say that you are not the only government leader who will press Google for further action. Can you give an overview of the countries that have now approached Google with the question of data control and what international agreements can be made on this matter, as far as you know? In my question of 13 January, you also mentioned that Minister Jambon would go to America to establish similar contacts there. Meanwhile, the White House Summit on counterpropaganda took place. I assume there have been contacts with Google, Youtube and Microsoft. If you are suggesting to question Minister Jambon on this matter, I would, of course, like to do so. Could you clarify what contacts were going on and what arrangements were being made?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-24-54-commissie-ic095x.u15	In Davos, I met representatives of various operators from the telecom and internet sectors, including Google. From Google in particular, I've heard what that company's position is on the freedom of surfing on the Internet and what measures it's taking against radicalisation and terrorism. We should be aware that Google is not the only operator or service provider used for questionable purposes. This also applies to other means of communication or social networks. They each develop their own way of working and good practices. Google is fully prepared to cooperate with the states in the fight against terrorism and radicalisation. The company requires clear rules to be able to operate in an impartial and transparent framework. Google stresses, however, that it is difficult to deal with legal frameworks and procedures, which differ according to Member States, particularly in the European Union. That is why I reiterate my call for a joint approach at European level under the Commission's flag to engage in high-level dialogue with all Internet actors, not just with Google, of course. This is mentioned, at the initiative of Belgium, in the joint declaration of 12 February of the Heads of State or Government on terrorism. I intend to monitor closely the implementation of the recommendation on my own initiative. There are other positive elements. I found a few days ago that France's Minister for the Interior supports exactly the same reasoning. Belgium was one of the first countries in Europe to put that item on the agenda. I strongly support the freedom of surfing on the Internet and the protection of privacy. We cannot make concessions with regard to these principles. At the same time, however, they must not prevent us from taking effective measures to protect our compatriots from terrorism and radicalisation. A balanced approach must therefore be found, respecting one and allowing the other. I will keep you informed in good time of the development of the dossier at European level. On 18 February 2015, a World Summit on the fight against terrorism took place in Washington, USA. Some 60 countries participated in this. My colleague Minister Jambon represented the Belgian Government there. The aim of the summit was to launch an international debate on the fight against terrorism and to put forward the most effective tools in this area. Cooperation with Internet providers and social networks was widely discussed during the summit. On the initiative of Minister Jambon, the government has already taken a number of concrete initiatives, including the introduction of a counternarrative programme on the Internet to avoid extreme radicalisation. You mentioned safeguards regarding the processing and protection of the data available to the Internet providers. I think you are right: we must be careful. This aspect will, of course, be taken into account in the analysis of the problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-24-54-commissie-ic095x.u16	Prime Minister, I would like to thank you for your clear answer. I would also like to wish you good courage for the pioneering role you wish to take in. You say that you will deal with it personally, so that promises the very best. It is really important that we seek international support for the initiatives that need to be taken. Belgium may wish for much, but the global web goes beyond the Belgian borders, so action needs to be taken at international level. I can only welcome the fact that you raised it with the European Commission and that there are joint commitments there. With your permission, I will return to this in due course to see how the matter is evolving. We must be vigilant about the trend. I wish you and the whole government the best with it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-24-54-commissie-ic095x.u17	Mr. Chairman, Prime Minister, the question is quite long, but the issue is relatively technical. In February 2011, the Belgian NATO representative approved to the NATO Council the NATO Host Nation Support (HNS) document. The objective of the HNS is to provide host nations, i.e. those hosting NATO HQs, with certain logistical and administrative support tasks. For Belgium, this applies in particular to NATO and SHAPE HQs. On 7 December 2012, the Council of Ministers approved a note on the practical implementation of the decision. A working method and an agenda were agreed, as well as designated working groups. The purpose of the working method is to assess the tasks to be taken up by the host country in accordance with the agreement of the NATO Council. The Interdepartmental Headquarters Policy Committee (ICPS) acts as coordinator. If I understood correctly, pending the appointment of the Federal Public Service, which would take over all the civil workers of SHAPE, the latter would remain the employer of these workers and, by means of a flat-rate billing mechanism, the benefits would be borne by Belgium. This transition period would enable the new organisation to be structured and supervised; in particular, to define a policy for the forward-looking management of skills needs and to continue social dialogue (workers and trade union organisations) in support of the transition process. The objective is to form part of a 3- to 5-year transition plan that would balance the need for existing resources with recognized expertise and ensure continuity of work. There must be no collective redundancies, but the maintenance of individual benefits for existing staff. In particular, with regard to the internal fire department of SHAPE, firefighters would be taken over by the Hainaut-Centre rescue zone through supply agreements with each of the firefighters concerned. The recovery was expected to take place in early 2015. It must be noted that this procedure is being reintroduced sine die. Under the previous legislature, workers and their trade union organizations had been kept regularly informed of the progress of this issue. Since then, civilian workers in SHAPE have had the greatest concerns about the implementation of the Host Nation Support agreement between NATO and the Belgian government. According to their trade union organisations, the employer "SHAPE" would not be reassuring and systematically refers to the Belgian government as an interlocutor. Prime Minister, we are several months away from the decision of the Council of Ministers and the workers are concerned about the lack of concrete implementation of the commitments made by the previous government. What mechanism is in place by your Government to implement previous decisions and to implement the agreement reached with NATO on the future structure for the reception of workers? What is the minister or what are the ministers of your government responsible for the effective implementation of this issue? In this regard, would the decisions taken on 7 December 2012 regarding the division of responsibilities between the Ministers of Defence and the Interior in the matter of Host Nation Support have been changed? In particular, on what date will your colleague from the Interior give his green light for the signing of the agreements to make available for the transfer of the internal fire department from SHAPE to the Hainaut-Centre emergency zone? Finally, it seems to me essential that real social consultation with workers' representative organisations should take place again and that they should be informed so as to remove all uncertainties.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-24-54-commissie-ic095x.u18	Mr President, Mr Thiébaut, the agreement of 8 February 2011 on NATO HNS effectively places on host nations certain tasks in support of NATO military HQs, in this case SHAPE for Belgium, from 1 January 2014 in order to relieve NATO's military budget. In December 2013, the implementation of this agreement was postponed to September 2014. The SHAPE HNS file was referred to twice by the Council of Ministers on 7 December 2012 and 14 March 2014 under the previous legislative term in order to determine at best the modalities for Belgium's resumption of certain support and administrative tasks previously assigned to SHAPE. Two areas directly concern civilian personnel employed by SHAPE as "local workers" within the meaning of the 1951 London Convention and the 1967 Belgium-SHAPE Agreement, namely the fire department and the management and maintenance of the infrastructure of Camp Casteau. No decision on the division of responsibilities between certain federal departments has been changed, since this division could not be agreed upon at the Council of Ministers on 7 December 2012, contrary to what you have just mentioned. It seems obvious to me, in any case, that the resumption of the task of the fire department can only be attributed to the Inland FPS. The latter has in fact drawn up a plan in order to enable, by means of supply agreements to be concluded with each local worker, the current firefighter, to be implemented within the Hainaut-Centre relief zone in the first half of 2015. An information meeting with the staff concerned is to be held shortly. The signing of the conventions may take place only after the information meeting has taken place. I want to be clear on this point. As regards the management and implementation of the maintenance of the infrastructure of Camp Casteau, the responsibility will lie with a department which is still to be designated by the government. We will make every effort to arrive at a lasting solution which, unfortunately, the previous government has not been able to achieve: the resumption of the various tasks of the HNS by the most competent departments and recurrent and secure funding. I also recall that it was decided with NATO and SHAPE that the latter remained the employer of the local workers concerned until the reconstruction of SHAPE HQ, scheduled around 2019. Provision will only be made at that time. Finally, I can assure you that the social aspect of this case will be taken into account, while the employer is still the SHAPE and therefore the person responsible for direct conciliation with its workers. The Government wishes to make every effort to ensure that there is good consultation and information for all stakeholders. You're asking me what departments are involved. In my view, there is the interior, the defence, but also employment, which is potentially concerned. We will try to find agreements on this subject, on which, unfortunately, it has not been possible for the government to find solutions in the past.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-24-54-commissie-ic095x.u19	Prime Minister, thank you for this detailed answer. As far as the firefighters are concerned, I think it would be interesting if I turned to the Minister of the Interior, since he is in charge of this part of the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-24-54-commissie-ic095x.u20	Ms. Fonck's question was withdrawn and Mr. Gilkinet's question was transformed into a written question. Mr President, I should like to speak on behalf of Van Hees on the attacks of the majority on trade unions and the new actions of the common union front.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-24-54-commissie-ic095x.u21	Thank you, Mr President, I note that my two colleagues have withdrawn or in any case are not here to speak in connection with this joint question. Prime Minister, I heard quite worrying things from the majority in the last plenary two weeks ago. In the ranks of Open Vld, Egbert Lachaert repeated three times that there could be no strike. On the benches of the N-VA, Zuhal Demir demanded two years of social peace, no more or less. On behalf of the government, Kris Peeters said that there might be actions but no strikes. I don't know where he got that information from. Apart from the plenary session, in front of the media, your party's group leader, Denis Ducrame, spoke about both banning pickets and giving trade unions legal personality. So many statements that are quite worrying and also fit in a rather dishonest way to present things. It seems to be said that the whole world of work is more or less in agreement that there should be social peace, but that a small group of FGTB's unresponsibles refuses and poses threats to social peace in our country. To give you an order of magnitude, I still want to make it clear that the FGTB represents a million and a half members, while the MR n'en represents only 36,000...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-24-54-commissie-ic095x.u22	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-24-54-commissie-ic095x.u23	The PTB, about 10,000, which is not bad. Beyond this comparison, I want to recall some truths about the right to strike. The strike picket is a method of exercising the right to strike and is therefore internationally recognized. Secondly, at the international level, a decision taken in 2012 by the European Committee of Social Rights condemns the legal actions brought in Belgium against pickets and considers that these judicial actions violate the European Social Charter. It is therefore a matter of a clear recognition of the strike pickets. With regard to the attempt to marginalize one part of the union in relation to the other or to divide the trade union movement, I think it is necessary to remind some things to the majority, perhaps to you. First, the four main grievances of the historical social movement that took place in November and December, which some call break points within the union, are still present and the government maintains them. I recall these grievances: jump in index, falling pension age, destruction of public services and taxation saving the rich. None of these four points has been settled and therefore the claims at the root of this historical social movement are still there. Secondly, the FGTB, but also almost half of the CSC, opposed the signing of the agreement. More fundamentally, none of the four breaking points I have just mentioned is in the agreement between trade unions and employers. This means that these grievances are upheld. This is why actions are still envisaged, not only by the FGTB, but also by the CSC. Moreover, they decided jointly to take action on 11 March in Brussels. Prime Minister, my questions are as follows. First of all, I am surprised to hear that the government still claims to be open to social dialogue while leading violent attacks on trade unions. So far, these are verbal offensives... Does the government intend to question the right to strike and to picket, which is fundamental? Then, do you endorse the threatening statements made by your majority and even by your party towards strikers and trade unions? Have you understood the four main concerns expressed by the unions? I guess so. Finally, do you intend to take initiatives with regard to trade union organisations before the action scheduled for 11 March?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-24-54-commissie-ic095x.u24	Dear colleague, thank you for your question. I will try to respond to the various points that have been raised. First of all, I repeat once again, and I will probably still have to do so regularly before this House, the quality of social dialogue is and will remain a constant concern of the government. On January 30, employers' organizations – FEB, Unizo, Boerenbond and UCM – jointly submitted a draft agreement with the CSC and the CGSLB to the government's select ministerial committee. This is a partial agreement, as it has been supported by eight representatives of the Group of Ten – and as far as I know, the PTB is not yet a member. Let me give you the summary. First, it is a matter of extending several existing agreements and regimes for the period 2015-2016. Secondly, it is planned to conclude a series of collective labour agreements. In addition, the objective is to allocate the welfare envelope to social benefits and social assistance allocations: € 319.5 million in 2015 and € 627.2 million in 2016. Finally, the fourth point - very important - the wage margin: a closed envelope on an annual basis of up to 0.5% of the wage bill. This is the realization to be charged to the wage cost, i.e. the total cost for the employer all expenses included, and to be defined at the sectoral level or, failing that, at the level of the enterprises and to be granted in 2016 with the recommendation to devote it to future-oriented measures (ageing, lengthening of the career, mobility, the second pillar or training). That is the summary of the agreement, which I have already presented in plenary before. In addition, there is a closed envelope on an annual basis of up to 0.3% of the net payroll, with no additional costs for the employer, to be granted in 2016. Finally, in order to facilitate the conversion of the envelopes I have just mentioned into net purchasing power for workers, the social partners ask the government for two things. On the one hand, increase the face value of a euro meal voucher. On the other hand, increase the maximum amount for results-related non-recurring benefits to €3,200. These are the famous bonus ceilings for collective agreement No. 90. On 11 February last, a few days after the agreement which was presented, in a deliberation, the Council of Ministers formally committed the social partners to implement fully – and I quote the words I used at the time – the draft agreement drawn up by the Group of 10 with the exception of one of the trade union organisations. With regard to the index jump – as you mentioned – the government's position has been repeated many times. He will be executed and he will be socially compensated as we have committed to it. The social partners have an essential role to play. For me, social dialogue is a foundation that must be strong and creative in order to enable necessary reforms to be carried out, taking into account the expertise of the social partners and their practical knowledge of the field. To answer your question about Mr Ducrame's bill or other initiatives within the parliamentary framework, it is not up to me to censor the freedom of parliamentarians to introduce bills. That goes without saying. Let me simply point out that, without in any way calling into question the right to strike, which is a fundamental right that no one challenges, the right to work, the freedom to work, is also a right that must be balanced and taken into account in parallel with the right to strike. This seems to me to be a debate that deserves to be held in a democratic forum. It goes without saying that if this bill were to come to the agenda of a committee and be put to debate, it is always possible for Parliament to ask for the government's opinion on it. If that were to be the case, I will not fail, on behalf of the government, to give a more detailed opinion on this bill or on any other subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-24-54-commissie-ic095x.u25	Prime Minister, I asked you for your opinion here, but you will wait for a bill to be introduced. You will not have lasting social peace if you maintain your position on the index jump and the three other fundamental grievances of trade union organizations. The reaction will not only come from the FGTB since, just before entering this room, I indicated on Twitter that I was going to ask you about the subject. Felipe Van Keirsbilck, who is not a member of the FGTB since he leads the CNE, the CSC's main French-speaking power station, replied: "Despite Charles Michel's dreams, thank you for reminding us that the goal of a union is not social peace but social justice". He adds, to your attention: "Specify also that announcing an index jump is equivalent to an immediate declaration of war". This tweet comes from the head of the CSC's main French-language power station. It is therefore not FGTB. Prime Minister, you did not really answer questions about the attacks on the right to strike. You invoke the right to work, but I would remind you that there are 600,000 unemployed in Belgium who would like to see this right to work applied! The government is simply excluding them rather than bringing them a job they are looking for so much. I have the impression that you are talking a lot about social dialogue, about social peace, but you are preparing for the social war!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-24-54-commissie-ic095x.u26	Our colleague Mr Maingain has arrived, I give him the floor for the question...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-24-54-commissie-ic095x.u27	Mr President, I find that the way in which our work is organised is not optimal. We start late, we change the order of the questions and everyone comes whenever he wants!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-24-54-commissie-ic095x.u28	We will abide by the Rules of Procedure and we will follow the order.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-24-54-commissie-ic095x.u29	Mr President, I just wanted to say that. You can give the floor to Mr. Maingain.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-24-54-commissie-ic095x.u30	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for accepting my delay. The Juncker Commission has finally taken note of the gravity of the economic recession that threatens Europe. Among the measures to support growth, it launched a plan that would free up some €315 billion of public and private investment over the next three years. I will not go back to the details of this plan. It is sufficient to know that the plan involves financing through the European Investment Bank up to EUR 5 billion initially, by the European Union itself for 16 billion, of EUR 63 billion which would be raised on the financial markets and then loaned to carry out selected projects; moreover, governments, public and private partners will also have to multiply this investment by five to reach EUR 315 billion. Financial resources will be allocated to viable projects, providing added value to the real economy. These will include infrastructure, education, research, innovation, SME financing, employment measures for young people and research and development. It is known that a committee of independent experts will be responsible for selecting projects. The Commission would have already received some 2 000 billion, but between the time I introduced my question and today I have noted on the European Commission's website the list of proposals submitted by the various governments. I fully adhere to this Juncker plan, although it alone cannot be the condition for economic recovery in the European Union; this is another debate. As a first step, the comments of the Belgian press suggested that the federal government, at least, did not provide a decisive contribution to this project, which the Belgian State would hesitate to invest. One thing is to have submitted applications to benefit from this Juncker plan, but another thing is to know how to finance it. Who is waiting for a return should make a prior commitment to contribute to the funding. In addition, we could estimate that in the private economic sector – Trends Trend – large companies have liquidity available in a November article. The 410 non-financial companies established in Belgium would have EUR 240 billion in liquidity. These findings lead me to ask various questions. First of all, what will the Belgian Government put on the table by the Juncker Commission as a budgetary contribution to the launch of this plan? If not, for what reason? Do not tell me that it is because of budgetary constraints, because the Commission has precisely foreseen that the Member States' budgetary contribution to the financing of the Juncker Plan can be taken as a derogation from the accepted deficit. I was enquiring about the number of projects submitted by the federal government, but the list is on the Commission's website. Have you submitted any projects that may meet the criteria of the investment plan or have you made a selection? If so, on the basis of what criteria? Have you estimated the impact of the projects submitted on employment? One of the primary aims of the Juncker Plan is to justify the job creation benefits. Is funding for these projects already taken into account in our fiscal trajectory? Is there a consultation with the federated entities to ensure the coherence of the projects submitted, even if only to seek synergies between certain investments? I also saw the list filed by the various federated entities. There are also interesting projects, such as the federal one that has focused heavily on public transportation - SNCB and Infrabel in particular. These are all the questions I wanted to ask you, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-24-54-commissie-ic095x.u31	Mr President, in terms of methodology, since a comment is made on how to organise the work, I would like to say that the answer I will give in a few moments corresponds very precisely to an answer that I have already given in the committee of opinion on European issues which brings together senators and Members. There is no new element. But I am happy to bend to the rules and therefore I will repeat an answer that I have already given for a long time and commented on, just a few weeks ago. A task force has indeed worked to compile a list of projects that could potentially be supported under the Juncker plan. It was launched at the informal meeting of the Economic and Financial Affairs Council (ECOFIN) in September 2014, a few weeks before the government took office, and brought together Member States, the Commission and the European Investment Bank. The aim of the Task Force was to identify investments of European scope that could not be made at this stage for one reason or another, while analysing the reasons which prevented the ability to carry them out. The task force is focused on research, innovation, the digital economy, energy, transport, social infrastructure and the environment. Energy issues have therefore been taken into account in this context. The task force's work has resulted in a list of some 2,000 projects worth €1,300 billion. The Belgian projects, which have been identified and compiled in direct cooperation with the federated entities, represent EUR 77 billion. The complete list is not only available on the European Commission's website. It has also been shared with Parliament in the context of the parliamentary work that has already taken place on this subject. As regards Belgium, projects in the transport, energy and social infrastructure, ICT, environment, health, research and development sectors were therefore presented. This long list is now a form of pipeline, as called for by the European Commission, which aims to be dynamic and to be able to be modified. In order to implement it, preparatory work by the European Commission is still needed. The aim is to determine how the European Fund for Strategic Investments will work: on the basis of which selection criteria? According to what governance? The European Commission submitted a draft regulation on this subject in January 2015. For the moment, it is subject to ECOFIN. Therefore, both the criteria for selecting projects and the framework for this session are not yet defined. There is therefore no question for the Belgian Government to provide an answer as to whether it will contribute directly to the Fund or otherwise, without knowing the framework within which these projects will be analysed and treated. As far as I am concerned, I believe that we must avoid the geographical distribution of the Fund. Projects must be evaluated on the basis of their merits and their impact on the real economy - the ability to create activities - and their impact in terms of potential profitability to mobilise the capacity of private partners involved in this Juncker Fund. The European Council also invited the Council of the European Union and ECOFIN and the European Parliament to agree on the Fund's legislative framework before June 2015. It is only at this stage that the list of investments, and therefore the Belgian projects, can be adapted, reviewed and clarified to take into account the feasibility and possible eligibility of the projects under the fund in question. Of course, the work of consultation with the federated entities that started immediately after the establishment of the government will have to continue, of course. The financing of the projects that will be selected has obviously not been taken into account at this stage in the calculation of the budget path. Indeed, the question mark remains. As you can see, Jean-Claude Juncker's project is still under construction. We will work vigorously with the European Commission and the European Investment Bank in this first half of the year to achieve concrete results as quickly as possible. We will take an attitude on the political issues that will be asked, when we are confronted with the set of data that will enable us to make the right decisions in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-24-54-commissie-ic095x.u32	Mr President, as I feared, the Prime Minister's response has not changed. I'm somewhat saddened. Indeed, my question was to give him the opportunity to show that the government was in line with the dynamics of the Juncker Plan. It is not enough to request or file a list of projects. Moreover, Prime Minister, you are not even evaluating it. You say that the only criterion is the real economy, i.e. job creation. In doing so, you do not answer my question. Did you assess the impact you expected in terms of job creation? You do not provide us with any guidance in this regard. In addition, according to the Juncker plan, to receive, you must first give. Why is the Belgian State not making any commitments?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-24-54-commissie-ic095x.u33	What you're saying is wrong.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-24-54-commissie-ic095x.u34	When you are European and you defend European convictions, that is how you act, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-24-54-commissie-ic095x.u35	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-24-54-commissie-ic095x.u36	Not at all! The Juncker Plan calls for funding from public authorities and private bodies. States must therefore also contribute. It is not enough to ask to receive. The willingness to contribute is indispensable. But you do not want to contribute.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-24-54-commissie-ic095x.u37	Yes!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-24-54-commissie-ic095x.u38	So tell us how high you're ready to participate.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-24-54-commissie-ic095x.u39	We can decide to level the debate down, Mr. Maingain, if you wish. First of all, I am telling you that the framework is not yet defined and will be in June this year. At that time, we will know the eligibility criteria for projects and the Fund's governance rules. At that time, a government will be able to make a decision on a direct contribution to the Fund. No other European country has taken a decision at this stage, pending the development of the rules. Moreover, we are very actively involved in their preparation at the European Council, on the one hand, and ECOFIN, on the other. Secondly, it was never envisaged that access to funding by the Fund would depend on a contribution to the Fund. This has never even been discussed. That is absolutely not correct. Therefore, it seems to me that, on this point, your busy schedule did not allow you to read the discussion in detail. Finally, I understand your haste to want decisions to be taken, but we are not in the same logic as pre-election agreements... Before elections, we want to organize the establishment of a government. In this case, however, we must first wait for the European rules to be finalised, after which the political guidelines will be chosen.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-24-54-commissie-ic095x.u40	I am glad that, prompted by my questions, you said that you did not exclude a contribution. That was the subject of my question. That was my first question. And this is fundamental in a European approach. In a federalist will, which enlivens me, we cannot simply ask Europe. Europe must also be helped to achieve the ambitious Juncker plan. I will come back to you, when the time comes, to know what the concrete budgetary contribution of the Belgian State to this financing is.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-24-54-commissie-ic095x.u41	Mr President, Prime Minister, this question may be a bit peculiar, but the context and functioning of the government obliges us to ask you as Prime Minister about the status of the coalition agreement. In the last few weeks, every time we think or hope that everything lies down and calms down, there is a new incident. Several of your government members have given different interpretations of the status of the government agreement. One time it's an open given, another time it's a fixed given. Every partner in your government uses it as it suits him or her on that day, and the day after that may be something completely different. Inconsistency trump card. In my opinion, the latest episode can be described as a bottom-up in substance. In our country, the 10% largest assets together hold more than 870 billion euros. Just now, your government is going to look for a number of millions of euros from people who are having a hard time. These are people who care for those in need of care in their environment, sick or children. I am referring to the measure on family care, a point of low content and, in my view, a symptom of the harshness of this majority. There is only one version of this: the four government parties have decided that together in the coalition agreement. It is also a low point in terms of the functioning of your government, when I look at last Sunday's television platforms. A Deputy Prime Minister considered it necessary to deny that he had proposed this measure in the government negotiations; it was CD&V's fault. The functioning of your government has thus reached a low point, because your government is like a playground where each one tries to bully the other student. That's not the way to run a country. Belgium is not a playground, Belgium deserves better than that. Today I read in the newspaper that, with a few days' delay, you are trying to put things in order. Following social protests, this measure would also be amended, but my colleague, Mr Dedry, will ask you more about this. However, I do not think your response is sufficient. However, I am familiar with your way of reply in the meantime, and that is why I will tell you which answers I do not think are ideal. This is not the first time we have had such a dialogue, nor is it the first time we have had such a dialogue. At first, you said there was nothing wrong. Everything is fine and the majority hangs beautifully together, so you said. That music has become unbelievable in the meantime. In the recent incidents in your government, you accused the opposition of playing political games. At least you tried that again in plenary two weeks ago. With the performances of your deputy prime ministers still in mind, I advise you not to repeat that statement today, because that is not credible. The only thing a Prime Minister can do today is give a very clear reprimand to the Deputy Prime Ministers by saying that that way a government does not function and that way a country is not led. In substance, I think you should also make it clear that this measure is not going to happen at all. In an even more abstract atmosphere of the coalition agreement, how will you deal with it in the coming months? Is that an open one? I hope so. If the coalition agreement is adjusted socially, there is no problem, but a clear line is needed so that Members of Parliament and public opinion can have some insight into the functioning of your government. A Mexican army is hard to follow. That's why I'd like a little order of business.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-24-54-commissie-ic095x.u42	Prime Minister, I agree with what Mr Calvo has said. I would like to go into the substance of the very harsh measure you have taken. You know very well that you have made a number of statements about this, even today in the French-speaking and Dutch-speaking press, that carers are more and more placed between work and care tasks and that they must necessarily reduce their job time or stop their professional activities in order to take on these care tasks for a child with disabilities or for elderly parents. Instead of supporting these essential links in our healthcare system, this government demolishes the carers to profiteers. That's really harsh. Just because the public protest was so loud, you're tying in a little bit. It affects me personally because I have worked for 20 years in an association that defends the interests of carers. Two weeks ago, I received all the French-speaking and Dutch-speaking associations to listen to their needs. These are associations that hold caregivers together and listen to their interests and defend them. Prime Minister, have you listened to them? Do you actually know the 2014 Federal Investigation Report of the CCE, which contains very clear conclusions and recommendations? Let me quote: "Mantelzorgers better support "" Their social rights shall be safeguarded by managers. To ensure that carers can adapt their working arrangements smoothly, their job time, without being punished. Moreover, the KCE is asking us to pay attention so as not to create a Matthew effect in the social inequality between carers. What is the current government doing? It affects the weakest carers with the measure contained in my question. Prime Minister, Ecolo-Groen has prepared a bill. We are almost done with a legislative proposal, precisely to maintain social rights such as pension rights, unemployment rights and unlimited time credits and not to punish carers, but to support them. I have five questions for you. Firstly, do you withdraw the original measure on Friday, in which you abolish the exemption for social and family reasons for job-seekers? Secondly, what specific measures will you take to support those carers? By what time will you take these measures? Thirdly, will you consult the sector? Fourthly, do you follow the recommendations of the KCE report? Fifth, will you support our bill, which has been put together on the basis of our expertise, my experience and discussions with the field of work?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-24-54-commissie-ic095x.u43	The next question about the new differences of opinion within the government is from Mrs Temmerman.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-24-54-commissie-ic095x.u44	Mr President, Prime Minister, it is not the first time we have discussed these differences of opinion. You obviously have a problem within the government. The media play handy in that. It has to be said, however, that your government partners are actually playing into it as well. What one explains is then denied by the other. A third then comes up with the right solution. It's very difficult to follow. It is also very difficult to determine what the coalition agreement actually means, because there are different interpretations. Moreover, the interpretation that is ultimately followed is a third interpretation. It is therefore a problem of working. However, there is certainly also a substantive problem: the present government shows day after day and week after week that it is hitting the weakest every time, just because it does not want to hit the most powerful. Two cases reappeared recently. The two previous speakers have already referred to this: the unemployed carers. In this respect, you stated today that you would reduce the measure in question. My first question is therefore the following. Will that really happen? In what way will you reduce the measure? After all, the measure has already begun. Will you therefore reverse the measure with retroactive effect? In what way will that happen? We read in the newspapers that no one really defends this measure. Apparently, an agreement had been reached in the government on this matter. As soon as this leaks, no one really supports the measure, after which you, as Prime Minister, have to withdraw a proposal from your own party. I come to a second substantive question on the indexation of the rental price. You make an index jump, but immediately you announce to index the rental price. You are particularly affected by those who are struggling, those who are not struggling to protect you. What will happen to the rent? I want to hear this from you because I assume that this is the government's position. Afterwards, different parties from your coalition will no longer be able to come up with different answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-24-54-commissie-ic095x.u45	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your questions. Each his temperament, each his character. I certainly do not intend to be destabilised by the polemics, the reactions in the media or the front pages of the newspapers. I'll come to the content. There is a coalition agreement, which contains two important points. Firstly, a strong, albeit not so obvious, political commitment to activation, job protection and job creation. We may not always agree with each other, but it is the conviction of this government that the best way to protect the weakest in our country is to create more jobs tomorrow and the day after tomorrow so that a lasting guarantee can be provided for the financing of social security. That is the main objective of this coalition agreement: a strong political will for more activation so that people will have more opportunities for a job tomorrow and the day after tomorrow. At the same time, this must be done in a human way. We must take account of an important value for ourselves, namely solidarity. I note that it was necessary to bring together a number of technical working groups very quickly. The first meetings took place today with a view to an agreement by Friday to decide on adjustments. What is the purpose of solidarity with the carers? There are rules for working carers today. It is my belief that rules should also be laid down for non-working carers and carers self-employed, who are not fully involved today. We must also take decisions on pension rights. This is not evident given the estimated budgetary cost of such measures. However, we work with experts. I certainly won't participate in the polemics and the little games. That's not my intention. (Protests from Mr Calvo) I prefer to reply in substance. Well, the intention is to take the first concrete additional decisions on Friday. I said very clearly yesterday that I would ask the ministers concerned to put the concrete measures on the agenda of the working groups in the coming week. The first meeting will take place today and will last a few hours. We are very optimistic about the possibility of taking additional concrete measures on Friday. So it's very clear. The interpretation of the coalition agreement is very simple: there is a strong commitment to activation, job protection and job creation and at the same time there is a human and solidarity approach. We must find the best balance, in essence. Is that obvious? No, that's not obvious. Is that hard? Yeah, that's hard. However, I note that there is a political will to conclude agreements and make decisions in a few days' time. It is my role as Prime Minister to ensure that the government is able to make permanent decisions to implement our government agreement. However, I have to accept that there are four political parties in the government. It is not a merger of those four parties into one party, there are four parties who have agreed to the coalition agreement and who are working hard to implement that coalition agreement in concrete terms. That's what we do. I am available myself, and I am even happy if I have the opportunity to come to Parliament and explain very precisely how we work and what decisions we make.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-24-54-commissie-ic095x.u46	I actually think it's getting a little sad. Every time I notice the same thing, I told you not to do it if you want to be Prime Minister above it. But you do it again: you answer with some general blabla, some abstract phrases and slogans like: we want to create jobs, everything goes well, the unity is fantastic and it is fun in the government, everything is top. Don't you talk to people? Don't you read the papers? The beginning of a solution is at least to acknowledge reality. What would a real Prime Minister have done today? He would have said to Mr Jambon and to Mr Peeters: not in this way, not in my government, not in our country! It is totally inappropriate for such an important subject to be discussed in such a low political manner. One does not have to agree on everything, one does not have to merge. We like debate, we like democracy, but we would also like our country to be seriously governed. Four right-wing parties would put things in order and make things very serious and instead we got a playground, a playground where apparently no schoolmaster is present, who has the authority to line everyone up nicely. Mr Dedry will go into this further, you say that you hope to reach an agreement on Friday. You can at least say today that you will not implement this measure, which you have decided on with the four parties, including Mr Peeters' CD&V. I have not heard you say that formally today, and I would like to ask you again. That measure's gonna die, isn't it? When you say that you hope to reach an agreement on Friday, is it about that measure or is it about other measures, which I think is important? Does that measure fail, yes or no? Is there already an agreement in the government on this, yes or no? Have you already played your role as Prime Minister there, yes or no? Have you already got Mr Jambon and Mr Peeters on the line in that regard, yes or no? Are you actually Prime Minister, yes or no?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-24-54-commissie-ic095x.u47	My answer was very clear.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-24-54-commissie-ic095x.u48	You haven't answered any of the questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-24-54-commissie-ic095x.u49	That's your interpretation, I respect that, but I'm not going to convince you. Before I replied, you had already decided that my answer would be bad, that is your systematic decision. However, this is not the best way to work in Parliament for credibility, but that is your choice and I respect your choice.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-24-54-commissie-ic095x.u50	Mr Prime Minister, I note that, first of all, you are not getting the impression that you expect serious behaviour from your Deputy Prime Ministers and, second, it seems that today there is no agreement to say here in Parliament that this measure is, by definition, being reduced. You can talk a lot about the opposition style, but you have plenty of work in your own club and should not judge how the opposition should behave in Parliament. I merely note that we are asking you week after week about substantive positions when your government is dealing with substantive problems...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-24-54-commissie-ic095x.u51	You never ask questions about substantive points of view. You're talking about a government like a Mexican army.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-24-54-commissie-ic095x.u52	It cannot be more substantive than that. Does the measure fail, yes or no? Did you play your part as Prime Minister? Mr President, he did not answer the question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-24-54-commissie-ic095x.u53	I have made it clear that we want adjustments and solutions for all carers, the workers, the non-employed and the self-employed. You can say systematically that you have not heard it or that I do not answer it, but that is a classic game of opposition. Anyone can appreciate what level that is.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-24-54-commissie-ic095x.u54	Mr President, Parliament is entitled to a reply and to the last word. Prime Minister, I regret that you cannot be absolutely clear about this today. I would like to say one more thing about the answer you gave first. Your project is job creation, that melody repeats you week after week. Two or three weeks ago, in another Chamber of Parliament, we took note of the government's job report. I will conclude, Mr President. You mentioned ten thousand extra jobs. The carers you targeted represent 7 000 to 8 000 people. That says a lot about the government's project. Once again, I would like to call on you to ensure that the necessary adjustments are made in the course of budgetary control.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-24-54-commissie-ic095x.u55	Mr Calvo, you refer to the Rules of Procedure when it suits you. Your speaking time is more than exceeded. I give the floor to Mrs Dedry for her reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-24-54-commissie-ic095x.u56	I will go into the substance of your reply. You are talking about a technical working group, which you have called together. If this technical working group is intended to bring the government partners' noses into line, it may be a small positive light. But if the technical working group also needs to list the problems and identify the needs, then it is absolutely irrelevant: the needs are known and reported, there are already enough studies, results and recommendations ready. You also say that the budgetary picture must be calculated and that the working group will also serve this purpose. I hope that this happens intellectually honestly, because there is also great profits: they are communicating vessels. Your colleague, Minister De Block, is full of it: the professional care alone becomes too expensive and priceless, there are too few hands in the care, we will have to revalue the informal care pillar. The carers are the informal pillar of care; they also make a profit in society, because they complement the care hands that we lack in health care. So not only does caring cost money, it also brings in a huge amount, more than it will cost. It is revengeful that, if we take the carers socially seriously, we would not be talking about maintaining their social rights. The periods in which they are engaged in family care should build up similar rights and not be punished. I would like to come to the technical working group to explain our bill. By the way, there's a whole chapter for self-employed people.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-24-54-commissie-ic095x.u57	Prime Minister, we have told you a few times. We believe you best: everyone is for job creation, especially the members in your party. Many bodies, not to mention the National Bank, have calculated that most jobs are created by a targeted reduction of charges paid with a capital gain tax. I'll tell you again. If you are so concerned, if job creation is one of the most important points of your coalition agreement, I suggest that you immediately implement the legislative proposals we have put forward for this purpose. You will then create more jobs than you have done so far or intend to do in the future. Secondly, as far as the content is concerned, you did not give a substantive answer. All three of us have asked what will really happen to the carers. For your information, Deputy Prime Minister Peeters has said that he will do everything in his power to reduce the measure. You refuse to answer that now. You did not say that the measure would be abolished. You're shaking no. However, the question was asked twice. You are now tweeting and not really listening, but one of your Deputy Prime Ministers said that this measure would be reduced. Today you say in our committee that you do not confirm that. That's a statement. There is, therefore, once again a third opinion in the government. We are eager to see what will eventually be decided. We can only conclude that Minister Peeters probably spoke in turn. I also asked you about the indexation of the rent. You didn't answer. I suppose you wouldn't dare, because there are different views in the government on this too. We will first have to read in the newspaper that Minister x A says and Minister y B and you may then say that we will do C, then you may have to reduce the measure again. Mr Prime Minister, that is really sad. I still understand your refusal to comment on the fact that there are differences of opinion in the government and that there are so many parties in the government. There were even more parties in the previous government, but we have never experienced a situation like the one we have today. I can understand that, but you do have different parties. However, if you say that you only want to respond in substance, then I really want to hear a substantive answer. You have not answered any of the questions put by myself or my fellow Members, but you have simply turned around. You were talking about the future, about consultation and so on. You have not answered any of the questions in substance.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-24-54-commissie-ic095x.u58	Mr President, Prime Minister, excuse me for asking you this question. In the meantime, I know that you find that very annoying and you will answer later in terms of the opposition playing games and so on. I have also included the source of my question in my written question. Your own Minister for the Budget said that he could not answer my questions and suggested that I turn to you, the Prime Minister. That's what Minister Jamar said on the Finance Committee last week. My question was about the timing of budgetary control on the one hand and the tax shift on the other. I questioned both Minister Jamar and Minister Van Overtveldt about this. A few weeks ago, after a long push, Minister Van Overtveldt gave me a timing on the exercise on the tax shift. After the broad public protest, there is finally an opening. The question is whether this exercise will be substantial and whether this exercise will provide the right sources of income, but that remains to be seen. Minister Van Overtveldt announced at least a few weeks ago the tax shift for March. March is also the month of budgetary control. Many members of the government say that budgetary control and the tax shift are two different exercises that will not be discussed together. In particular, Mr Dewael's group is very enthusiastic and expressive. That is why I questioned the Minister for the Budget last week. If that agenda is not clear, who better to ask about it than the Minister for the Budget? He could give me a timing, I meant. However, the Minister for the Budget replied to me that he could not express his opinion on this matter. He couldn't tell whether or not there is a connection, and that's why he suggested asking you that question. So that's how far we've come in the meantime. Perhaps it is interesting, Prime Minister, to make a weekly appointment with you so that all the differences in government can be discussed with you on a weekly basis in committee. This is one of them. Prime Minister, what exactly is the timing of budgetary control? What is the exact timing of the fisco shift and when will the first proposals be submitted? Are both files together or not? With those questions, I'm not just going to the calendar. It is also a question of substance, which is a question of the position of this government. Some of my colleagues, Mr Terwingen and Mr Beke, have made statements on this subject with which I agree. Budgetary control must be carried out and efforts must be made. If that budgetary control were to happen again through savings on the roof of families and SMEs, that would be very wrong, they say. That makes this an important question. I look forward to your undoubtedly upholstered answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-24-54-commissie-ic095x.u59	Mr.President, Prime Minister, to make the index jump pill more easily available to the public or trade union organizations, the government is launching the idea that there would be no index jump in 2015, given the evolution of inflation. Prime Minister, in response to this attempt, which I can salute, I would like to make a few comments. Faced with this claim that there would be no index jump in 2015, I'll tell you that somewhere we don't care! Indeed, contrary to your statements in the press last October saying that the index jump would only be applied once with a consequence only over a year...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-24-54-commissie-ic095x.u60	That's right!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-24-54-commissie-ic095x.u61	You confirm that, by the way. That's amazing! I take as an example the index jumps introduced in the 1980s. For a person who at the time had an average salary of 1,000 euros, who was already working in 1982 and who worked 30 years, after 30 years, the loss of salary due to index jump is 55 000 euros. We can calculate it because we know the evolution of the index. We don't know it for the future, but if the situation is similar, imagine the loss! By what trick of magic do you say that it only affects a year? I come to a second point. Public services will soon pass the pivotal index. I made you a little painting. From December to January, we were on the 100.40 index and this increased by 0.21. So we went up to 100.61. If the evolution is the same in February, we will reach 100.82 and, in March, 101.03. When are we going to exceed the Pivot Index in the Public Service? On index 101.02. Therefore, theoretically, we could do this in March, except that, since you are attentive to the mechanism of the index, you will tell me that we must take into account the smooth index, which is the average of the last months. So it will not be in March, but in May or June. The third element is the most important, if not the most challenging. We risk a combination of two elements: index jump and higher VAT. Indeed, such an increase will have an undoubted effect on prices, which will speed up the index jump. The population will therefore be doubly victimised: both by the increase in VAT and the jump in the index. The case occurred in the Netherlands. It was assumed that inflation was 1.7%, but the increase in VAT rose to 3.2%. Prime Minister, these are my questions. First, has the government taken action on the explosive cocktail of the possible combination of these two elements? Second, does the government maintain its willingness to apply an index jump? Earlier, you answered in the affirmative; nevertheless, in the light of the new elements that I have provided, you could have changed your mind. Thirdly, does the government exclude increasing VAT as part of the next fiscal adjustment? Fourthly, would the government – or you as Prime Minister or leader of the MR – exclude an increase in VAT under the next tax shift? Fifthly, if I could ask myself a bonus question: if there appears to be a slight increase in VAT, while I read in one of your recent interviews that you did not appreciate an increase in VAT – would you set a limit? You could, for example, in the context of a tax shift or the budgetary adjustment, decide not to exceed EUR 1 billion.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-24-54-commissie-ic095x.u62	Mr. Chairman, I will try to answer questions but, in principle, question the government about its intentions does not make much sense. Asking about decisions made makes sense. All right. Like me, you have all read the latest inflation forecasts of the Federal Office of the Plan published on January 6, 2015. According to these forecasts, prices would start rising only very gradually during the year, leaving an average inflation rate of 0 per cent, while the health index would rise by 0.5 per cent over 2015. This increase would be insufficient to reach the pivotal index, so that there would be no index jump in 2015 according to these forecasts. At the risk of repeating myself – I am sorry – we have two major objectives. On the one hand, reducing the wage disadvantage in order to enable our companies to regain competitiveness, avoid job destruction and possibly create additional jobs, and through this, protect the financing of social security. On the other hand, we are paying attention to the question of the purchasing power of citizens, especially those who work and who have lows and lows. To achieve these two objectives, the Government Agreement provides for a number of measures that have already been much discussed, including index jumps. At the risk of disappointing you, I have not changed my mind since the previous question you asked me a few moments ago on the subject. The government maintains a permanent monitoring of the state of the economy and the measures to be activated in order to achieve the objectives set. As far as your question about the tax shift is concerned, I have already explained it, my Finance Minister too. We have already started a relatively historic first tax slide: EUR 2.8 billion. I repeat once again, we do not want to hear it on some banks, 100% of the new revenues are mobilized for economic recovery and purchasing power, especially those who have the lowest incomes. Of these 2.8 billion, $1 billion comes directly from increased taxation on financial flows and capital. For example, we doubled the tax on equity income compared to the previous situation. We are implementing a transparency tax that did not exist. We are finalising, with the sector, in contact and also in dialogue with the European Union, which is looking closely at the 2015 budget. I come to the very fundamental question that has been asked, that of the timetable. This is a very fundamental and very substantial question put by our colleague. Again, we see that it is the substance that dominates over the questions of form in the head of one of our colleagues. There is a clear procedure, with clear timing, for budgetary control. That's a first element. We await the reports of the monitoring committee. That is not new, these reports are always the basis for starting budgetary control in our country. We have been preparing our work in recent weeks and also today. In principle, we will decide on budgetary control in March. A second element is the tax shift tax measures. What's the best time for that? What's the right timing? I'll decide... the moment venu. When the time comes, I will assess the state of budgetary control and the technical preparation required for tax cases. It is the Prime Minister's responsibility to define the government's agendas. We will then ensure that we take the appropriate decisions. That said, to be clear, because I already expect the reactions, we made a commitment in discussions with the social partners. The accompanying tax slides will make their first impact known in the 2015-16 period. We have indicated this direction, which will obviously be respected.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-24-54-commissie-ic095x.u63	Mr President, Prime Minister, I can only say that we have taken a step backwards today. The Minister of Finance replied to a question from me a few weeks ago in the Finance Committee that in March the first contours of a tax shift will become clear. You are now saying that you will see when you will bring this to the Council of Ministers. I think that's a step back. You all know how important this tax shift is as a lever for social peace. I therefore find it quite incomprehensible and playing with fire to put that tax shift on the long track. In this way, you miss opportunities to adjust the imbalance of your budget, with only 80 million euros of stock market tax for 2015. I understand between the lines that budgetary control should certainly not be about new revenue. This means that every euro will have to be searched for once again through savings. Cd&V colleagues honked here a few weeks ago that enough savings have been made and that there are enough problems for SMEs and families. You have a problem there again. As you insist on more substantive debate, I would like to say the following. The most concrete track, which we have heard from the Minister of Finance in one of his last interviews in De Tijd, was about an increase in VAT. In our view, a fair shift in the burden does not go in the direction of VAT, but rather of pollution and the greatest potential. I suspect that we will have that debate again and again. Mr President, I can only say that we are taking steps backwards with this government and that an exercise, which was initially announced for March, now has no timing or date. I believe that this is important news not only for this Parliament, but also for outside.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-24-54-commissie-ic095x.u64	Prime Minister, you're giving me the inflation forecast by telling me that the index jump will not happen in 2015. I feel like you didn't really listen to what I told you. I have given you the example of the Netherlands, for which the forecasts have been completely distorted: with the increase in VAT, inflation has been much higher. That's the point I wanted to draw your attention to. You did not answer me about the combination of index jump and the possible increase in VAT. You are telling me that the government is not being asked about its future plans, but this possible increase in VAT is linked to the question of index jump, which is already decided by the government, hence the interest to focus on this issue. I remind you of Felipe Van Keirsbilck's tweet that announcing an index jump was an immediate declaration of war. This may not scare you, but do not tell us that you want to engage in social dialogue from the moment you maintain your positions on the four main demands of the unions. How can you say that you want to engage in social dialogue as you camp on your positions? It's quite incomprehensible. As far as your speech on competitiveness is concerned, you make the same point every time, you have a certain consistency. If we analyze the policies of your government, as well as previous governments – the MR has been there since 1999 – we see that gifts, reductions in social contributions, notional interest and other index jumps are multiplied. This did not lead to an increase in the employment rate, but it helped to increase the dividends. Today, the dividends are exploding and we see regularly Mr Timmermans, the managing director of the FEB, going to burn a candle at Saint-Michel Cathedral because he thinks, it seems, that it is Saint Charles Michel Cathedral!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-24-54-commissie-ic095x.u65	Mr President, Prime Minister, at one of your passages in plenary, you said the following at a question from Mr Van Biesen. That may explain his presence here today; I do not want to say that Mr Van Biesen is not often present, because he is one of the best students in the class. You have made quite a lot of statements about the functioning of the Consultative Committee. These statements are also welcomed by our group. You have stated that you want to dynamise the Consultation Committee and make it a forum for more consultation in order to streamline the complex issues in this country. Especially with a government that is struggling to function itself, that is a very brave ambition. It is certainly also legitimate in substance. After all, this country needs more cooperation, as it needs at least a federal government working together and pulling the same strings. The Consultative Committee would therefore be dynamic. The question is how this will happen in practice. What elements do you see in this respect in order to strengthen the functioning of the Committee? At the same time, you yourself insist on as much substantive debate as possible. The following question therefore arises. What is the control and interaction with this enhanced action? Our group sent a letter to the President of the Chamber immediately after the plenary session and to Mr Van Biesen's question, which you received and in which we state that, if the Consultative Committee is strengthened, it is also important to strengthen parliamentary control of that Conciliation Committee. We therefore propose to agree that the Committee on the Interior should systematically refer back to the Conciliation Committee, as is also the case for the European Summits. The answer given by the Prime Minister to the content, debate, transparency and cooperation to the Conference of Presidents of Parliament is that he does not like such a feedback. According to him, there are enough possibilities to question the Prime Minister. He does not see that feedback and transparency about the Consultation Committee. Mr President, I have the letter in my hands. This was linked back to the Conference of Presidents and there was no enthusiasm for it. Mr Ducarme played his role there and said that what Prime Minister Michel says is always good, even if it is not. So he's okay with that. Mr Van Biesen says that it is important that we reflect on the functioning of the Consultation Committee. I would like to use this committee to ask you about these two aspects. Firstly, what are your specific plans for the Consultative Committee? I would like to see more cooperation, but how do you actually ensure that this is done? Secondly, what feedback do you provide with Parliament? It was agreed with the group chairmen to reflect on how to organise this feedback. However, I think that you should come back to your steps and say that you, as Prime Minister, who boasts of the content and transparency of the debate, welcome the opening of a debate with Parliament. Quite specifically, are you, as Minister for content and transparency, prepared to make the agenda and notifications of the Consultation Committee available to Parliament?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-24-54-commissie-ic095x.u66	Mr President, Mr Calvo, the consultation between the federal state and the sub-regions is once again on the Council's agenda, and I am satisfied with that. A first meeting took place on 28 January 2015 and the Consultation Committee will meet again tomorrow. As I have already pointed out, the federal government wants to initiate an open and constructive dialogue with the representatives of the sub-areas. I have considered carefully your proposal to debrief after each meeting of the Consultative Committee. You asked for advice and I replied. As I indicated in my letter, I find your proposal to be neither timely nor feasible for the following reasons. You can already question me and the other government ministers about the work of the Consultative Committee through the existing channels, particularly during the plenary sessions or oral questions in the committees. You can even ask for a committee of inquiry on this matter. That's possible, too. It makes little sense to organise a debriefing only in my presence after each meeting of the Consultative Committee, since each minister is responsible for consulting the representatives of the sub-areas in terms of his powers. Each minister should therefore be able to answer questions on the subjects within his competence. The example you cite to support your question, in particular the pre- and debriefing of each European Council, is not relevant in my view, since unlike the meetings of the Consultation Committee, it is not a question of being accountable to Parliament for internal Belgian meetings, but rather of discussing and deciding at supranational level. If we followed your logic by organising a debriefing after each Consultative Committee, for example, the government should also organise a debriefing after each Council of Ministers, for example on Friday afternoons or Saturday mornings. I come to your question concerning the notifications of the Consultative Committee. The government works very transparently and systematically delivers the notifications of the Consultation Committee to the services of the Chamber once they have been approved. Notifications will then be published on the Chamber's intranet and extranet under the heading "Regions'. Finally, as I mentioned in my letter, I call on Members of Parliament to ask them any questions relating to the Consultation Committee through the existing channels. The ministers of the government and I myself will be happy to answer them as soon as possible, Mr Calvo, just as I did today in the committee with your question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-24-54-commissie-ic095x.u67	Mr Prime Minister, as far as notification is concerned, I suspect that the fact that the notification of 28 January is not yet available is due to the fact that it will be adopted tomorrow. You are talking specifically about notifications, but not about the agenda. What is your policy on this? That is at least as important as the notifications. I would ask you to make the agenda available to the Chamber. I regret that you say that, although you have substantive ambitions with the Consultation Committee, you do not want to take the step towards parliamentary control and openness. I believe that there is a great basis for comparison with the work that has been developed on the European summits. Especially after the sixth state reform, it is important that this operation is dynamic. It seems to me to be an absolute condition for a parliamentary part to be attached to it. We will not hesitate to seek support for this in this House. I wanted to give you the opportunity to make that decision today, but you seem to prefer Parliament to make that decision for you. Furthermore, you replied rather superficially about your substantive plans with the Consultative Committee. I think we should stop at the bottom of this. It can play an important role in our complex country. I think that we in the committee should certainly consider your ambitions in terms of content and the yards, both on a dossier and on the way in which they operate. Mr Prime Minister, thank you for your intention to dynamise the Consultative Committee. I look forward to the concreteisation of that.
