ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip071x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip071x.u2	Proposals tabled by: Proposals submitted by: - 550: Meyrem Almaci, Georges Gilkinet, Jean-Marc Nollet, Kristof Calvo, Stefaan Van Hecke, Wouter De Vriendt, Muriel Gerkens - 679: Peter Vanvelthoven, Ahmed Laaouej, Karin Temmerman, Stéphane Crusnière, Dirk Van der Maelen - 1038: Jan Spooren, Zuhal Demir, Peter De Roover, Sophie De Wit, Wouter Raskin, Kristien Van Vaerenbergh.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip071x.u3	The general discussion has resumed. The general discussion was resumed. We take the Finance section of the draft programme law.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip071x.u4	Mr President, Minister, we had very long discussions about the program law in the context of the review of the budgetary adjustment which was based on this program law and vice versa. I will not repeat what I have already said, and I invite you to refer to the report of our work when considering the budgetary adjustment. This program law is a small manual of all that is not to be done in tax policy, with a few exceptions, and I will talk about it, Mr Piedboeuf. What is expected of a tax policy? Let it be fair and effective! Everyone has a conception of fairness, but ours is to consider that everyone must contribute according to his or her means, to ensure that everyone is treated on the same footing, in identical situations. As far as efficiency is concerned, it is hoped that a fiscal policy will really support the economy, that it will not contract domestic demand, that it will promote investment, innovation, research and job creation. On the other hand, we see in the program law, which is quite symptomatic of how you treat our tax system, the total lack of a comprehensive and coherent vision. Why? Because this program law contains, in many respects, some government responses to specific requests from certain sectors and lobbies. I have mentioned, in a carte blanche published in L'Écho, the idea that you are proceeding with a subdivision of our tax system because you are dismembering it in batches, emptying it from its consistency. This is particularly the case with the carat tax, a measure you are taking in favour of the diamond sector. Do you realize the disastrous signal you send to all taxpayers, whether they are natural persons, corporations or corporations? You are creating an exorbitant and privileged derogatory regime, arguing that it is difficult to control the diamond sector, an important sector of our economy and that your measure would allegedly earn more than the tax on the sector. First of all, with regard to the difficulty of controlling the sector, the diamond sector is not the only sector difficult to control. Many sectors are. Whenever there is, at any given time, a weakness in control or a confession of impotence, will we create a derogatory regime, a privilege? Do you realize the precedent you are creating and the call of the foot you are launching? You tell us that this is an important sector, which would represent 5% of GDP, 30,000 jobs, etc. Many sectors are important to our economy. Moreover, in our tax legislation, a whole range of measures are helping sectors, for example labour-intensive. I'm not going to talk about Horeca, it would be too easy. Take the automotive sector, there are a number of measures here or there that help the automotive sector, which is known to be strategic for Belgium and is under threat of fierce international competition. While some measures have been adopted, they are general measures. These are not measures reserved solely for the automotive sector. These are measures that are intended to apply when certain objective conditions are met, for example, when there is night work, teamwork. That is how we can pursue a fiscal policy that supports the economy, without creating a privilege. And then tell us that it will bring more than it currently reports. No! When the current recipe is added together with the result of the tax controls – there have been resounding cases – the argument is not valid. It is therefore a very bad signal that you are sending, for a very simple reason: a tax system holds if there is a membership of the tax, if the tax is collected as legitimate. And for tax to be perceived as legitimate, taxpayers need to feel that they are being treated fairly, that there are not some who are forced to queue and others who have pass-rights. When you do this, you delegitimize the tax system. You do not strengthen civicism; on the contrary, you weaken it. Second important element of the programme law: the Cayman tax. So yes, the Cayman tax goes in the right direction. We will recall the considerable work done by our colleagues in the Sp.a. who have tabled a bill on the Cayman tax, of which you have been largely inspired, to tax the offshore legal structures. Unfortunately, there are considerable weaknesses in the provision that you submit to us, including setting the 15% threshold below which the legal construction must be declared. To determine the 15% – as I have already said and I am not going to repeat myself, but finally for the report, it is important – you are fictitiously transposing the Belgian tax rules abroad. This will result in offshore structures that actually pay only a few percentages of tax, if not at all, being considered to exceed 15% and thus escape the device you take. It's really a shame that you didn't listen to us, too. However, I observe that in what was announced yesterday on the famous tax reform or shift tax, I do not know what to call it, in a budget line you expect a higher return for the Cayman tax. This means that you are already going to reform the text that you are submitting to us today, which in terms of public policy or legislative policy is neither appropriate nor desirable. Perhaps I should like to hear the minister tell us where he is going. How will you adapt? I've seen you doped the recipe. You expect 260 million euros in cruise speed while for the budget adjustment, here you have programmed 50 million with the current Cayman tax. Minister, could you perhaps give us an indication of where you're going?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip071x.u5	Mr President, I would like to allow myself to support Mr Laaouej in his question to the Minister of Finance. We are asked to vote a tax – or not to vote it, we will see that later. There is an announcement that this will be changed. That makes absolutely no sense. I believe that Parliament has a right to clarity. Minister, I am already pleased to have explanations on this subject. I'll be careful.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip071x.u6	Madame Onkelinx, you vous remercie. That said, the liquidation reserve is the tax reform expected by the Voka and two, three other compendia, since it is a matter of reducing the withholding tax on dividends. It is more than likely that you will not come back to this measure, despite the announcement of an increase in the furniture discount. I understand that the liquidation reserve will be preserved and sanctified. This aspect has already been discussed earlier. The new element of the program legislation is the retroactive effect of this measure, which is unacceptable, especially since you have taken immediate action in a number of other cases with respect to taxpayers and families. Do I need to remind you of the index jump measure, as well as of the increase in VAT on electricity that – if I understand correctly – should come into force in the last quarter of 2015? In other words, when you give tax gifts to some, you plan their retroactivity and when you decide to tax families more, you immediately apply the measure. This is completely unacceptable! This brings me to the tax shelter, which is a very good initiative for our SMEs, who need their own funds. We will never say enough that they are the lung of our economy. However, we have given you a whole series of documents, explanatory diagrams. We've shown you that this device will allow for tax engineering. Unfortunately, the measure will cost more than expected and you will miss out on its goal. Why can't you hear us? We would like to join you in a constructive work. That is why we have tabled amendments to prevent this tax shelter from becoming a new tax engineering carousel. I'm afraid that when you get to the point, we've already lost a lot of money, and that's a shame. Let's be good, bank tax is a step forward. Like the Conseil d'Etat, we no longer understand very well what this still has to do with the issue of equity because the tax base, both for insurance companies and for banks, is now quite far from mandatory equity. However, we are not going to speak out, it is a good measure to have considered it important to involve the banking sector. I simply hope that, in legal terms, your device will keep going. Similarly, the employment bonus is a positive measure. Since the personal social contributions of a number of low-income employees have been reduced, the perverse effect is that there is an increase in their taxable income, that they pay more tax and that they must be able to correct it. This is the objective of the tax employment bonus. You're increasing it, but we would have liked you to increase it more. This would have been a good measure for workers and to support demand. You don't, it's a missed opportunity. We have drawn your attention to the need to take into account single-parent families because their situation, from the point of view of their ability to contribute, is more delicate, more precarious in general, the figures have shown this. You didn't want to follow us, it's a shame. As far as intercommunals are concerned, I am not going to point the MR, but it was still his battlehorse during the election campaign. You may have been pleased to see the government supported in this by the other parties of your majority. Intercommunals are not economic realities like others. This is the non-market sector, hospitals, the water sector, the electricity sector. These are services of general interest and, rather brutally, you have decided to subject them to corporate tax. We told you to pay attention to certain sectors such as hospitals, the water or energy sector. We tried to convince you. You have come a long way, excluding hospitals, but you have not been very clear about the problem of nursing homes and crèches. You're talking about structures that assist elderly and disabled people, but you didn't want to tell us clearly that you're out of the scope of nursing homes and nurseries. Minister, allow me to renew my request. Your interpretation will be important in the context of some controversy. Can you tell us that by "structure that assists the elderly", you clearly target the rest homes. We have also drawn your attention – but I am sorry because again you have not heard anything – to the fact that taxing intercommunals will increase the energy bill of households but also their water bill. This increase in the electricity bill will be added to the increase in VAT on electricity. According to our estimates, a household with your two measures (taxing intercommunals and increasing VAT) will have an additional energy bill of at least 150 euros. That, ladies and gentlemen, is what I wanted to tell you. Minister, this program legislation is symptomatic of your tax policy. You are not developing a vision that would seek to meet these two broad parameters of any tax policy: more fairness and more efficiency. Unfortunately, I do not see in the tax reform you announced yesterday that things are going to improve from this point of view, but on the contrary. This, of course, is our disappointment not only in the Socialist Group but also in many opposition parties. There's still time to pull you together. That is why we have tabled a battery of amendments. I hope you can consider them.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip071x.u7	Mr President, I know that some of my fellow Members are already in the holiday area, but this programme law is too important to say anything about it. Some tax measures from that law are intended to finance our first tax shift. I will briefly mention five points. Short is bref and sometimes means something different in Flemish than in French. Mr Laaouej, you spoke very briefly. We're usually not used to that from you. You've come to your point. First of all, we have talked a lot about the browsing tax or cayman tax, as we know it from the media. It will be put to the vote today. This is an example of a fair tax, but also of a tax on capital. There is often reference to the proposal made by Mr Crombez at the time, or to the proposal made by Mr Crombez at the time, but I think that we all got the mustard in the Netherlands. That is where such a system was introduced in 2010. Five years later we also do this in Belgium. What's happening today? Some taxpayers place their assets in trusts, foundations and other constructions abroad. That way they escape taxation. So what's the viewing tax or cayman tax? That allows the tax authorities to look through the financial constructions abroad and to tax the assets in our own country. I admit that there is already a notification system that was introduced during the previous legislature. It is therefore already compulsory to indicate such constructions. The difference is we're moving on now. It is true that those who do not report today and therefore do not respect the obligation to notify are doing so illegally. He's a fraud, and he needs to be dealt with. Those who try to avoid tax abroad will no longer succeed and will have to make their contribution. To clarify, those structures abroad are not prohibited. However, with this viewing tax, it is now possible for us to levy taxes on it and thus contribute to our society. That bite of the caiman is an important step towards fair taxes. However, I would like to point out to everyone, including you, Minister, that this is not the end of our work. For this, I would like to refer to the evaluation that took place in the Netherlands in 2013. The result of this evaluation is positive. The number of constructions has decreased, but some of these capabilities seem to have hidden even further behind all kinds of cloaking structures. Minister, I think we should call a cat a cat. We know what often happens in Belgium. It happened in the Netherlands, so why couldn't it happen in Belgium? I therefore believe that vigilance is necessary, vigilance to deal with such new abuses, should they appear, as soon as possible. That's very important. A second point to which I would like to refer is the diamond system and the carat tax. We should not discuss again whether carat tax is a fair and fair tax or not. That way, we'll never get out. Is this tax a favour or aid measure for the sector? Europe will also take a decision on this question. However, I note one thing, namely that the diamond sector is paying EUR 20 million in taxes today. The new diamond system will increase this amount to EUR 70 million. I make it very clear that this system applies only to registered diamond dealers. It is therefore limited to buying and selling diamonds. It's all about commercial transactions in those rocks. It's not about a local jeweller selling a diamond ring for the engagement of some person. The advantage of that system is that it is clear and legally certain. It provides legal certainty not only for the taxpayer but also for the tax authorities. We should not call each other Lijzebet. We should not be faint about this either. Today, too, there is a special regime for the monitoring methodology for the diamond sector. This arrangement was negotiated in the 1990s, because there were problems with that control at the time. This has also caused problems in the past. A special control methodology was also developed at that time, which is still being applied to today. We must not forget that the present system is also building on this. And why the current system? Because the system, as it exists to this day, still has problems with stock tracking and stock valuations. There are also minimum standards in the current system, but they do not always offer a solution. Today there are often discussions between the tax authorities and taxpayers about these stock valuations. The new system will therefore not be based on profit but on the turnover realised on the basis of which the taxable result will be established. Hervé Falciani, the whistleblower of SwissLeaks, says: "What Belgium imports for the diamondaires, namely taxing turnover and not profit, that is what really needs to be done." A third important point is the measures taken for start-ups, in particular the start-up discount and the tax shelter. I don't think anyone can be against this. After all, we are helping start-ups and SMEs who are indeed facing difficult access to finance today because the financial sector has a high risk aversion. These companies, my fellow Members, are crucial to the economic fabric and employment in our country. It is our explicit intention to encourage these investments in real economic activities. In order to avoid possible abuses of these measures as far as possible, we have introduced a number of conditions and restrictions. I believe that the opposition's colleagues can confirm that. In fact, we have defined a number of conditions even more clearly in the law by means of amendments, after a very thorough discussion in committee. There have been very valid comments and we have taken them into account. I note that Mr Laaouej is no longer here. I understand that Mr Laaouej is still not satisfied with the adjustment. It went in the right direction, but it didn't go far enough, I understand. Well, I think it's impossible to rule out any form of abuse in advance. Should this measure still be abused, I am convinced that the administration can still intervene. There is still Article 344 (1) which may apply. I am therefore sure that 99% of investors will act in good faith. There will always be a few bad apples, one cannot escape; unfortunately that is so. However, those few rotten apples should not stand in the way of this measure. After all, the measure is particularly important for encouraging young entrepreneurs and start-ups. Let us give this measure a chance. In order to be workable and avoid remaining dead letter in the end, we must avoid adding so many conditions, restrictions and controls that the measure is ultimately not feasible. That can't be the intention. That would be a shame. What are we doing for companies less than four years old, both micro-enterprises and SMEs? There will be an exemption from corporate withholding tax, 20% for micro-enterprises and 10% for SMEs respectively. These SMEs and micro-enterprises need that oxygen. I am therefore very pleased that this measure has been taken. A fourth point I would very much like to raise is the banking tax. For one it is too little, for the other it is too much or unjust. I believe that we have made a difficult exercise here. What have we done? We must ensure that the tax treatment of all companies is aligned. That was actually the objective of this banking tax. This measure was as simple as possible, but a balance had to be respected in many areas. What is good about this measure is that all financial players contribute, including foreign banks with branches. We have also taken account of the fact that there is a division between the big banks and the small ones. Fifth, the liquidation reserve. I know the opposition is having a hard time with that. My group has always challenged this measure from the past. We are very pleased that the 2013 and 2014 tax years can now also benefit from the adjusted regime on the liquidation reserve, and this for small companies. We must support entrepreneurship, because without entrepreneurs there is no job and there are no employees. Finally, a positive note. I would like to thank all my fellow Members, especially the opposition, who were still prepared today to support an amendment in the Finance Committee, in order to ensure that the increased holiday allowance for pensions is no longer taxed. We have made sure that tax legislation has been adapted in this context. That seems to me to be good news for a large number of pensioners. There's got to be something wrong with me. I know that the members of the opposition have often raised this issue in recent weeks. I would draw your attention to the fact that I have already raised this problem in the past, during the previous legislature. I am therefore very pleased that this government has decided to eliminate this anomaly in the legislation. This can only benefit all these pensioners; they can only benefit from it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip071x.u8	Thank you, Mrs Wouters. With regard to the amendments you mentioned, I thought that the report would be submitted by you or by Mr Laaouej. Apparently, it is Mrs Wilmès who is the rapporteur for the work of the Finance Committee at this noon.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip071x.u9	Mr President, we discussed two important amendments to this programme law at noon in committee. Since we have not had the opportunity to prepare a written report, I must communicate to you the purpose of our discussions. The plenary meeting on 24 July decided to refer amendments 48 and 54 to 56 to the draft programme law. The committee considered them at its meeting on the same day. I will start with Amendment No 48. Mr Luk Van Biesen, the main author of Amendment No 2 to the motion for a resolution (Doc. 48, points out that in Article 57 of the draft programme law, the purpose of the amendment is to replace the words "August 1, 2015' with the words "July 1, 2015'. 1 July 2015 was indeed the date mentioned in the original text of the draft law. For reasons of legal certainty, the government has already made extensive communications on the tax relief for start-up entrepreneurs, which is recommended to maintain the date of 1 July 2015, according to the main proposer of the amendment. There were no additional interventions to the tabling of this amendment. Amendment 48 and Rule 57 as amended are successively adopted by 11 votes with 2 abstentions. Mrs Wilmès and others introduced Amendments Nos 54 to 56. Amendment 54 is intended to insert in Title 4, Chapter 4, a section 5 entitled "Amendments to the additional reduction for pensions and replacement income". Amendment 55 seeks to insert an Article 93/1 in Title 4, Chapter 4, Section 5. Finally, Amendment 56 is intended to include in Title 4, Chapter 4, Section 5, an Article 93/2. Ms. Sophie Wilmès of the MR pointed out that these amendments were intended to correct a perverse effect of the degressivity of the additional tax reduction for pensioners' incomes. This problem had already been highlighted in previous legislatures without a solution being found. As a result of the degressivity mechanism introduced during the revision of Article 154(3) of the Income Tax Code in 2007, a pensioner could see his pension increase and, ultimately, receive less than he had previously received. This problem arose every time pensions were re-evaluated. Technically, these amendments propose to increase by 9% the amount of the current additional reduction referred to in Article 154(3) of the Income Tax Code. This increase shall be applied only where all net income consists exclusively of pensions or replacement income. She stressed the scope of those amendments, which were signed by a large number of political groups. Mr Laaouej of the PS welcomes this solution, which corrects an unwanted perverse effect of an increase in a holiday money or a pension which is transformed into a tax increase greater than the increase in that holiday money or pension. He stressed that that solution had emerged from the proposal for a law amending the Income Tax Code of 1992 amending the system of tax reduction for replacement income. Mrs Temmerman of the sp.a. expresses her full support for these amendments and underlines the fact that Parliament is providing a solution in this respect for the 150 000 pensioners who saw their holiday allowances taxed. This was an unintended effect, as Mr Laaouej explained. Mrs Wouters of the N-VA stated that the N-VA Group was also pleased that there was a broad consensus in the committee to solve this particular problem for many pensioners. However, it wishes to point out that it is not a new problem. Amendments Nos 54, 55 and 56 are therefore successively adopted by a majority. All the articles referred to the committee, as amended, including legal or technical corrections, were adopted by 11 votes with 2 abstentions. That is my report, ladies and gentlemen. I take this opportunity to speak in my personal capacity and on behalf of the MR on this specific amendment. My colleague, Mr Piedboeuf, will do us the honour of speaking about the program law as a whole. This is indeed an amendment aimed at correcting a perverse effect of the degressivity of the additional tax reduction for pensioners' incomes that had been introduced in 2007. Of course, the problem is not new and it systematically returns to the table, during each pension re-evaluation, as was the case in 2009, 2011, 2013 and still today. This amendment was signed by the majority, but also by the PS, sp.a, cdH and Ecolo. I would like to stress how pleased we are that the stated will to succeed on the part of the PS, and of Mr Laaouej in particular, and of the Sp.a. has met the equally great will of our majority, and of Minister Bacquelaine, to correct this problem of the past in the interest of pensioners with modest incomes. This demonstrates the importance and general scope of this amendment. This is a positive opportunity to conclude this parliamentary session on at least one vote that will be the subject of consensus. We can rejoice in that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip071x.u10	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, since there is an atmosphere in Saint-Sylvestre, a kind of concord encouraging the brevity of the speeches, I will not be very long. I would like to highlight a few points. Mr. Laaouej insisted on the same points but not for the same purpose. Of course, among the elements that we like in this programme law is the transparency tax. We've already talked about it. It was the continuation of the action of the previous government that introduced the spontaneous or even mandatory declaration. Now, there is a system that allows for specific taxation as early as the 2016 fiscal year, which complements this reporting system and allows for a better collection of taxes on buildings that avoided it. Such income which was not taxed, because unknown, will now be taxed in the head of the founder, his heirs or in the head of the beneficial owners. The constructions concerned are constructions without legal personality such as trusts or constructions with legal personality which would be taxed at less than 15 per cent. Where do these 15% come from? They come from the permanently taxed income system (RDT) in respect of dividends that inspired the setting of the rate. We can criticize this rate but we had to make a choice and we stopped it. We believe that this operation will benefit public finances. As far as legal persons are concerned, we distinguish between those located in the European Economic Area and those which are not. The former will be limitedly referred to in a royal decree; all the others are not limited because one wants to be able to respond to the tax engineering that always develops new ideas. So we want to stay open so that we can better capture the tax on these new constructions. Like everyone else, my group welcomes the introduction of this transparency tax. This is one of the important elements of the government's fight against tax evasion. The second element we welcome is the establishment of a mechanism to support start-ups, mobilize private capital and provide risk capital to SMEs. Like Mr Laaouej, we all believe that SMEs are the most job-creating ones and that they best ensure the economic development of our country. Among these measures to encourage the creation of SMEs, I mention the tax shelter for start-ups with tax reductions for those who acquire shares or shares through the contribution of money to an SME. I would add to this the measure exempting professional discount payments (10% for 4 years for new SMEs, 20% for new micro-enterprises) and the measure exempting loans to start-ups. Perhaps this will allow for tax engineering. That's to be checked. In the meantime, what is being put in place makes it possible to inject money into SMEs. And if these are cross injections, it's money that ends up in SMEs. We will see if these measures will need to be amended. In any case, these are positive and are in line with the dynamism of our SMEs. Thirdly, the new regime for the wholesale diamond trade is a controversial issue. We have chosen to establish a clear tax framework and legal certainty; this leads to an increase in the budget contribution of this sector with a simple method of perception of control and effective. This system also allows for the development of large volume trade with a large turnover of stocks. It is likely to maintain and develop a sector and increase tax revenues. This regime is clear, pragmatic and precise. It covers a sector of more than 1,700 enterprises and more than 30 000 workers. It is true that it is a specific system for a specific sector. But this also exists in other professions. We talked about it in committee. There are flat-rate systems that simplify the fiscal life of a range of sectors. The only difference is that instead of using a flat-rate system to calculate a gross profit, we use a system to calculate a net profit, hence the rate applied. He can be questionable. Perhaps we could have put 0.5 more or less; we put 0.55. This in any case produces a complementary recipe. The fourth point we insist on is the increase in the bonus for social and fiscal employment. It is very important to maintain and work towards support for low incomes. With regard to the introduction of an amendment concerning intercommunals, it is certain that one can dream better in some cases. Here, we aim at a sector that it was not normal to deal with other than the same sector when it is formed as a BLSO. This exemption has been established. It is probably a vision that the MR had and that also corresponds to a reality that he lived. We will see if this system needs to be improved in the future. When I hear that it will increase the price of services etc., no, it is not an automatic effect. Increasing the tax base by increasing prices means increasing a profit. Increasing a profit means making a choice. We can also decide to charge less. We have less profit and we will pay less tax. These are the two possible visions. Finally, this bill provides for a supplementary contribution to the banking and insurance sector. Mr. Laaouej welcomed this. We also welcome this because it is a complementary contribution of around EUR 100 million. It's not nothing. This allows us to inject elements into the economy that enable us to support low incomes. I am not talking about the liquidation reserve, but it is true that it is also a way of fixing a gap between two periods. We're talking about a retroactive effect. Simply, the companies concerned were between two different laws. This iota has been blocked in some way, allowing these companies to benefit from the reserve as well. It's a revenue anticipation that eventually leads to a revenue reduction, but it creates income right away that can also restart the economy. In short, this whole programme law contains a series of measures to boost the economy, to boost SMEs. It now relies on a shift tax that goes in the same direction, pays attention to low incomes and allows SMEs to develop. I'm sure it's a bet. That's our vision of things. It is a bet of a redeployment of the economy based on SMEs, giving them a new breath with a reduction of burdens. It's about creating more jobs. That's the bet we're making. That's the bet of this government. We fully support both this government and this programme law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip071x.u11	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the provisions of the programme law are the final part of budgetary control, which we approved a few weeks ago. We discussed the social dimension this morning, and this afternoon we are discussing the fiscal and financial aspects. The fiscal and financial aspects of the programme law do indeed include some innovations, on which my group is very satisfied. I am thinking, among other things, of the caiman tax, about which later more. The various tax measures in this programme law, such as the increased banking tax and diamond tax, all fit into the government's policy to work on growth, job creation, legal certainty for companies and more tax justice. I will briefly comment on some of those measures. Many speakers have already mentioned elements of different measures. On behalf of my group, I would like to dwell on three measures in particular. First of all, there's the cayman tax. In doing so, we are responding to an important gap in our tax system and making it fairer. The Cayman tax, for those who like to hear it, is a new form of capital gains tax. It is a capital gain tax that is newly introduced into this program law. I am already interrupted, Mr President.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip071x.u12	For once I had not seen Mr Calvo, Mrs Smaers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip071x.u13	I understand that a number of fellow Members have missed me. I wouldn't want Mr Vuye to tweet: 'Amai, Calvo is so quiet, so there must be something going on.' Mr Vuye, it is heartwarming to know that you missed me so much yesterday. I enjoyed the Flemish life song yesterday. The people who could use some celebration in their lives, and there are a few in your group, I invite you very much, because the summer is Mechelen's. Mrs Smaers, you are brave, because you are using the discussion of the programme law on taxation to show once again that this government and this majority are committed to fiscal justice. I attended some of the committee meetings. However, your colleague, Mr Van Rompuy, said that these were budgetary measures. The operation justice, which would come later, would be the tax shift. You're saying that what you're proposing here is an operation of justice. Mr Verherstraeten is already getting nervous. Yesterday we heard him, we have also heard the CD&V young people and a number of people on the periphery of your party. Mr Vercamer nods eagerly and seems to agree with me that the tax shift is not really the operation justice. Those who took note of yesterday's reactions must agree with me that the operation of justice still has to come and that neither the caiman tax, the diamond tax nor the other things that were presented to us yesterday should be an end. You think tax justice is very important. Would you agree with me that steps still need to be taken in the coming months and years?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip071x.u14	Mr Calvo, we have had these debates here on several occasions. I'll tell you again. Thanks to CD&V there is a tax shift of 7.2 billion euros in this legislature. You heard right. We put that on the agenda last year. We have not stopped and there is, as we know, a tax shift. Has a purple green government ever implemented a tax shift of this size? Has purple green ever introduced a cayman tax? Has purple green ever introduced a speculative tax on the capital gains of shares? Has purple green ever introduced an increased banking tax? Has purple green ever raised the withholding tax to 27 %? No! I don't want to hear that corny record of Green-Ecolo and others anymore. In the meantime, we know that the tax shift is a fact. And yes, Mr Calvo, if it were up to us, we would have gone further. You know that, too. In addition to the caiman tax, as a new capital gain tax, we had asked for additional contributions from large assets. But just like you did at the time, we too must rule in a coalition.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip071x.u15	Mrs. Smaers, I'd like to give you two things about purple green. First of all, I was 12 years old at the time. Secondly, Mr Van Biesen has a point. Taxation was thoroughly reformed at the time. Between 2003, being the end of purple green, and today, a lot has happened, such as the banking crisis and LuxLeaks. The world has changed, social support has evolved, and so some steps should be taken. Moreover, I assumed that you had the ambition to do at least more than purple green. You just asked the following questions: Did purple green introduce a banking tax? No. Did purple green enter a cayman tax? No, no, no, Well, I'll ask you some other questions. Did the CD&V kids say that the speculator tax is a pubic patch? Yes. Did CD&V say there's gonna be a big power tax? Yes. Has Mr Peeters campaigned on this for months? Yes. Did Mr. Peeters bite the sand? Yes. Is Mr. Van Rompuy suspiciously silent? Yes. Is the tax shift an exercise in tax justice? No. Mrs Smaers, instead of explaining here what purple green has done, you should start working with the parliamentary majority. You do the dirty work for the N-VA and Open Vld. You sell the tax shift as a good exercise. What should you do, however? You should tell Mrs Onkelinx, Mr Van der Maelen and us that you will continue to work, that the CD&V young people are right and that Belgium deserves better than that tax shift. There is a majority for that in Parliament. Get to work with that majority instead of chasing and attacking us.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip071x.u16	Don't look at my actions, but listen to my words, is very appropriate to Green. I welcome a party like ours, CD&V, where criticism is accepted in its own ranks and where the CD&V youngsters can also express criticism and have their own opinion. That is good for the debate in politics and I welcome it. This means that this is not the final work, but that we will continue to work on a fair tax day after day.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip071x.u17	That's an opening I'd like to accept. You say that you are taking steps forward and that this exercise is not the end point. Well, this legislature still has a lot of days, weeks, months and years. Does this mean that we will be able to take further steps on fiscal reform during this term of office? Or is it a closed door for you?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip071x.u18	If you say this is a start for you, that is happy news. Soon you'll have the opportunity to put some things right. After all, many amendments have been tabled by us and by fellow Members of this House, including the index jump for rental prices, which you have always been in favour of. I therefore propose that you support these amendments. I will quote them all again for you later, so that, contrary to what you said to Mr van Groen, you can take action.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip071x.u19	Mr Calvo and Mr Temmerman, I can assure you that my party is in favour of this. Again, look at the facts: 7.2 billion. Don't forget that the tax shift wasn't just a justice operation, but that it came first and foremost to strengthen competitiveness. The reduction you, at least some of you, have been talking about for years, is now there. It serves to create jobs and growth, and that is what this government has done.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip071x.u20	Mrs. Smaers, may I remind you that you sang the same song about the index jump? You said it was the first step towards competitiveness, with oxygen for wages, but, on the other hand, I hear Mr Van Rompuy and Mr Vercamer from your group say that there should be a serious tax shift, a fair tax which contributes to the wealth. So please do not say that this was the first and that oxygen must be pumped into the economy. You've already done that, so to speak, with the index jump. There had to be something to that, but what? We did not see that yesterday, we will not see that today, nor will we see that tomorrow. Don't fool yourself, Mrs. Smaers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip071x.u21	Of course, I'm not entirely objective. I admit that. Many people have already expressed their views on what was proposed yesterday. Have you found a watcher who wrote that CD&V has contributed to the speech, Mrs Smaers?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip071x.u22	I remember your statements in committee two weeks ago when we talked about budgetary control and the programme law, very well, Mr Calvo. I heard you say there wasn't going to be anything from the tax shift.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip071x.u23	That's not true. That is what I want to see in the report.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip071x.u24	I remember very well your words that the tax shift would be lifted over the summer to September and October and that nothing would come of it. Well, the tax shift is here now.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip071x.u25	(...) Where are they? I think that's really unlikely.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip071x.u26	Cayman tax, withholding tax, speculation tax, banking tax, over EUR 1 billion from assets. Having to hear this hurts.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip071x.u27	Mr Calvo has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip071x.u28	Mrs. Smaers, I'm repeating my observation. You say the Greens talk and talk. CD&V also does a lot of blablabla about the tax shift, but nothing comes today. That's not my conclusion...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip071x.u29	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip071x.u30	Mr Verherstraeten is getting nervous. That's normal. Now wait until Mr Van Rompuy says: 'Servais', he is actually right. I know Van Rompuy thinks so. I know he doesn't think that exercise is enough. When are we gonna hear from Eric Van Rompuy about the tax shift? Has he said anything about it yet? Or should we wait until Sunday, until he writes a blog about it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip071x.u31	Mr Calvo, Mr Van Rompuy is asking for the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip071x.u32	Mr Calvo, we heard your tax shift on the government statement. That was 8.5 billion taxes that had to be collected in Belgium in order to clean up the budget. Of these, 4 billion was a capital tax. Everyone who owns their own house is a house of their own, which had to be taxed 1%. At EUR 350 000 it was then 2% and so on. That is how you arrived at 4 billion, and if you interpreted it widely, there was even 6 billion capital taxes. That was your wealth tax. The ordinary man, the ordinary homeowner who has worked for many years for his house, must therefore pay a tax on that for Groen. That's your tax shift! [[Rumor]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip071x.u33	Mrs Smaers and colleagues from CD&V, I find this discussion unlikely after everything that was said yesterday and after everything that has appeared in the newspaper. However, I will only repeat two things. I will not repeat Mr Vercamer's statement, which I read out yesterday in the chair. Let me just say what Mr Leemans says in the newspaper this morning. According to Mr Leemans, after all, one of your movements, the tax shift is zero. You can come here and say all kinds of things and cover them up by saying that we are talking about 7.2 billion. The 7.2 billion is not quite right either, because more than half is definitely policy and even comes from the previous government. Mr Van Rompuy, you may be able to go to our tax shift, but where is the added value tax that you are in favour of? Is there? No. The index jump for the rental prices was, I think, one of the conditions. Is there? No. What is it? An index jump. We can even expect a second index jump, by taking the increase in VAT on electricity out of the basket. Mrs Smaers, with a Ghent expression: in your place I would keep my mouth in my plumes. That's a Ghent expression and you'll forgive me, because I don't mean it sharp. However, I would be very quiet. What you have done, what your party has done here, the social face of this government, I would be truly ashamed after what we saw yesterday.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip071x.u34	Mr President, Mr Van Rompuy, I know that you very much like to talk about our proposal on capital tax. However, it is now time for you to know it. I've explained it to you several times. The figure you mention is in a story of global reform. The existing capital tax is abolished. People are exempted up to a median power. From that level we begin to tarify. This is the biggest tax reduction for the middle class in Belgian history. That is our proposal. However, it is not about our proposal, although I am happy to debate it. It's about what's on the table here today. Mr Van Rompuy, I remember it very well. During the discussion of the programme law in your capacity as chairman, you made a statement in the Chamber of Finance to the effect that that law was the starter and that the main dish would soon come. The main menu would be a story of justice. Your words were annoyed by Mr Van Biesen, who at that time did not just eat his office chair in committee, because you then had a talk about fiscal justice. I note that you said mañana at the time. The CD&V says mañana today too. When will you really put your proposal on the table? You do not speak of it, but I cannot imagine the following. If you say otherwise, I want to believe you. However, you have not yet explained it or dared to explain it. I haven't heard you say you think it's a good exercise. You've been talking about the tax shift all the time over the last few months. Can you say today that you believe in it and that is what CD&V has been meeting for months? Is this the result of the CD&V working group, which is a speculator fee of EUR 28 million? According to your own CD&V youngsters, that tax is a pubic patch. Is it the EUR 1.7 billion savings in social security that you have prepared in your working group? Is that the outcome of that month-long CD&V work? It can't be. Mr Van Rompuy, do you or do you not believe in what is on the table here? Is that an end-point or are you going to work with the majority here in Parliament to create, for example, an added value tax, which means a real capital tax? Mr Van Rompuy, would you like to join us or not?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip071x.u35	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to refer to what a professor of Ghent University said yesterday. He had a discussion about the size. He noted that the scope could be discussed. However, the fact that it is effectively a shift from labour to wealth is certain for him. None of the workers are getting worse. When we look at the figures, we see an amount of EUR 7.2 billion, of which EUR 1.5 billion in non-work-related income. Never did wealthier people have to pay more than they do now. Mr Temmerman, we have never been able to register such high amounts with the Socialists. So I'd like to have your Ghent pronunciation at the Ghent Festivals for tonight. Here, however, she is unfounded and indecent.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip071x.u36	Mr Verherstraeten, power-generating vehicles were not even allowed to appear in the table. I'm just looking at what's under this non-work income tax, which is an excellent scoop term. It contains everything: the dividend of Belfius, the National Lottery, the fraud plan, the copyright... Still, the amount is less than the savings made in social security. Mr Verherstraeten is trying to play his role as group leader of the majority. However, I have addressed Mr Van Rompuy. Mr Van Rompuy, you have been hyperactive in this debate over the last few months. So you cannot blame us for being curious about your opinion today, not only because we find it interesting, but because we do not find it an end, because we want to work with the people of good will in this House, who really want an operation of justice. Either you say today that this operation happened for you and that you no longer want to become a member of that club of good will, which wants to implement another fiscal reform this legislature. Either you say to stand by your word and words are equal to deeds for you, and then you do not take peace with the present. It's only natural that that question should be asked to you, given your activity over the past few months.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip071x.u37	I understand, Mr Van Biesen, that you don't like this. Oh, you like it? Then we can go on for a while. Mr Verherstraeten, you're quoting a professor, but we can also quote other professors. Another professor has said that the 7.2 billion to which you refer includes everything, as Mr Calvo also says. There is certainly a policy in this and there is also a whole section of the previous legislature. The professor who says this is wrong, but the professor you're quoting is correct? Again, look at your own movement. What has appeared by people of your own movement? Apparently, you do not succeed in correctly translating your point of view. Now be honest with me. I am the first to admit that a coalition must take a number of things and give up a number of things. We have had to do that in the past. That is the way the Belgian system works today. However, reality and history are what they are. Are you saying today that this is the tax shift we dreamed of a year ago, to which we referred six months ago and which we said last month was going to come? If you dare say that this is the tax shift of your dreams, then I wonder how you stand against the voter. You're saying you had to make concessions because you're in a coalition. Fair enough. But what did you get in return? A big question mark. You had to enter the index jump, but you don't have all the other things you wanted, such as added value taxes and an index jump on rental prices. You're trying to sell it now as something you're 100% supportive of. Mr Verherstraeten, you keep nodding yes, but I find it embarrassing for you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip071x.u38	Mr President, it is always good to refresh the recent memory. Mr Van Camp has been kind enough to go into the committee report of 8 July 2015. Mr Calvo, who wasn't here yesterday, but who always shows when someone else isn't here, says the following to the CD&V colleagues: "Today you say that the quality of the exercise is the most important thing for you. There is no commitment in this matter anymore. The CD&V colleagues say it's gonna be there before the summer. That's unbelievable. That's what you said on July 8th. Where are we now? Please, stop performing a show. Be honest and modest. You certainly wouldn't mind.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip071x.u39	Colleagues, I can understand that at any time people think they need to bring out certain of their inner expressions, but we are talking about a program law. I can understand the opposition's difficulties with the introduction of three new taxes, such as the banking tax and a cayman tax. The sp.a gave a positive opinion on this during our discussions. You've been abstaining. You didn't vote against it. There is nothing wrong with saying about this programme law. The only thing one does is try to put forward problems between the majority that are not there. In yesterday's agreement, each party gave and took. This has brought out the best for the country, its citizens and its working population. We've all worked on that together. There is no winner and no loser. That's been said a thousand times. What you're trying to do is wrong. It is not because MEPs want to move forward in a particular direction or have a different view, that the end result does not count. We have all taken a big step forward together towards what you consider to be a more just tax debt. Some sources of revenue from the State have never been touched. You don't talk about bank charges anymore. The caiman tax is still being extended.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip071x.u40	I have yet to give my statement.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip071x.u41	But you are talking about other points. Why don't you stick to the theme as such? In the end, you do not dare to comment on what is going on here because we are indeed introducing new taxes, mainly for banks and wealthy people. You, as an opposition, find it extremely difficult for this supposed centre-right majority to introduce new taxes that effectively tackle the heavyweights.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip071x.u42	Luk Van Biesen plays his part. Actually, he says it's about the tax shift, but please let's not talk about the tax shift. Every day, the Open Vld Group has a bigger problem with parliamentary freedom or speech. Let us have that debate to the full. It doesn't have to take that long for me. I am simply waiting for Mr Van Rompuy to give an opinion on what was decided yesterday. Mr Van Biesen says that it is the best possible solution for our citizens and our businesses: it is great. I have not heard you say that, Mr Van Rompuy. All you have to say is: "Yes, I want to do more." Then you will find allies in this House. Or you could say: "This is fine and this is the end of the fiscal reform." That's all I want to know. That's not such a crazy question, considering your course of the past few months.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip071x.u43	Mr Van Biesen, I have not yet given my speech. So you should not say that I have not spoken about this or that. I would also like to ask you if you were absent from the Finance Committee, where Mr Vanvelthoven has constantly talked about the issues you are talking about. Please, Mr Van Biesen, do not rewrite history. I'll tell you what I have to say later in the sitting.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip071x.u44	The only thing we might be able to picture is Mr Crombez's appallingly empty look at the moment Bart De Wever asked him how he would apply capital gains taxes without hitting the middle class. It stayed quiet. Nothing came up. It's gonna stay that way.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip071x.u45	I would like to conclude this debate very briefly and then continue with my presentation on the programme law. Collega’s van de oppositie, it’s the duty of the opposition to oppose, dat begrijp ik. We have a tax shift of 7 billion, which is on the table, which is achieving results, which has never been done before. Mr Temmerman, of course we are not going to be silent about this, there is no reason to be silent about it. You are now focusing on the power trap, but you know as well as everyone else that we have fought to get a reduction in costs, to give oxygen to companies and companies, to create growth and jobs. That is why it is also possible to reduce the burden on labour. That was realized for a big piece in this tax shift. Yes, there is a share of power, one of the three pillars, part of the tax shift: 1.5 billion comes from wealth. So we're not gonna be quiet about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip071x.u46	Mrs Smaers, I have just asked you a question, and you have now brought it up yourself. You say this is not an end point. Is it possible for this legislature to take further steps on fiscal reform? I would simply like to ask you that question and then leave you alone, because I look forward to the rest of your speech.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip071x.u47	Mr Calvo, it is clear that every year when the budget is drawn up we will put our budget items on the table.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip071x.u48	This is important news: CD&V says the tax shift exercise is not over. It is important that we know these contours, and the next appointment is at the next budgetary control and at every subsequent budgetary control. That is important news, we feared yesterday that it was completely closed, but, if the door is ajar, please.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip071x.u49	I come back to the Cayman tax, an important innovation in our tax system, which may be underlined. In the meantime, it has become clear that this tax will generate even more revenue in the coming years, which has been taken into account in the budget agreement proposed yesterday. I also note the Minister's answer to our questions in committee on this caiman tax. In the future, consideration will be given to whether tax structures such as foundations in Switzerland, Luxembourg and the United States can also be addressed and included in the scheme. With regard to the diamond tax, the government has also sought a workable and easily verifiable fiscal framework for the sector, which should ensure correct taxation. We have seen that the regulations of recent years have been insufficient and have led to annual discussions between diamond traders and the tax authorities. For this reason, a simplified tax system, a flat-rate taxation of the taxable base, has been chosen. Since it also creates additional jobs and economic security, we have also supported this proposal. A third important set of measures for our group provides for tax advantages for start-ups: firstly, the tax shelter; secondly, an exemption from the transfer of the company advance tax which can also be combined with some other measures; thirdly, an exemption for interests that a natural person obtained from loans granted to a crowdfunding platform. With these provisions, the government has further committed itself to financially supporting start-ups and SMEs, at the heart of our economy, by promoting alternative ways of financing. In previous years, it has been demonstrated on several occasions that the financing of SMEs has often been a problem since the economic crisis. An additional instrument has therefore been created to facilitate the financing of SMEs. As a group, we would like to stress that, through those measures to promote start-ups and SMEs, according to the provisions of the Programme Act, the tax advantages should be used for the start-up or expansion of real economic activities. These tax advantages cannot, of course, be used for tax optimisation. The amendment tabled by the majority in committee clarifies the need to comply with the conditions set out in the programme law in order to benefit from these tax advantages in order to prevent abuse. Logically, our group is pressing for these conditions to be worked out for the part of the tax exemption on loans granted to crowdfunding platforms. The Minister has already said in committee that he will take that with him. We also call on the government to continue working on the elaboration of the measures, with a view to establishing a strong basis in economic and financial legislation. Finally, I come to the amendment that was discussed in the Finance Committee this afternoon. Our group also welcomes the amendment concerning the adjustment of the degressivity mechanism for the additional tax reduction on pensions, which was adopted unanimously. It cannot, of course, be the intention to tax the holiday allowance of pensioners. This anomaly has also been corrected by the amendment tabled, which has put CD&V on the agenda. We are, of course, pleased with that. On behalf of Mr Vercamer, I would also like to say that we hope that the same solution will soon be found for the disabled and not just for pensioners. Thank you for the discussions in committee. I hope, Minister, that we will be able to implement the measures taken properly. Of course, these measures still have to produce results. Thank you for monitoring this closely for the purposes of the evaluation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip071x.u50	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we have indeed discussed this programme law for a long time in committee. So I will just make a few points. We have even had a discussion here. So I think it is clear what we think about the programme law. What's the essence? I believe that this programme law translates very well for which this government stands, namely to benefit the wealthy as much as possible, to treat the fraudsters softly, but above all to impose the burden on the families. That is, I admit, a bit rude, the summary of this programme law. One of the most important points always made by the majority parties is the famous carat tax. We can be brief about carat tax. Actually, that's support. The carat tax is not a tax, it is not a tax, it is actually support for the diamond sector. On the one hand, the majority sells this as an increase in the tax, but on the other hand, Mr Vuye and Mrs Wouters have made it clear in an opinion document that this is actually a support. They argue that unfair taxes are actually smart taxes. That's what it comes down to in the opinion piece. I will quote it literally, Mr Vuye: "Are fair taxes smart taxes?' That's what it says in your article of opinion.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip071x.u51	Mrs Temmerman, you read a question for that. You may not realize it, but there is a question mark behind it. You said it yourself through your intonation. The article says that taxes that are job destructive, that destroy jobs, 32 600 jobs, are stupid taxes. Those may be taxes you dream of, but at least we don't.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip071x.u52	I am sorry, Mr Vuye, I do not dream of these taxes, but just read what is in your opinion, namely: "Are fair taxes smart taxes?' This is called a rhetorical question, a question to which, because of your intonation, everyone should know the answer. The answer, in your opinion, is: no, just taxes are not smart taxes.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip071x.u53	Mrs. Temmerman, as far as I'm concerned, Knack doesn't publish any staves in addition to the opinion papers. So I don't know how you might know my intonation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip071x.u54	Mr Vuye, I was talking about your intonation from earlier, not about the staves in the opinion piece. I repeat what it says: "Are fair taxes smart taxes?" That's in your opinion piece. That must sound a bit weird in the ears of CD&V. I will not repeat the polemics, ladies and gentlemen, but you were in favour of fair taxation, weren't you? Now, your coalition partner is wondering whether these just taxes are good and smart taxes. Ladies and gentlemen, let us talk about carat tax. According to almost all experts, namely the Court of Auditors, the Council of State and also the government itself, the question needs to be asked whether this carat tax is not state aid. Even the government is wondering, because otherwise it would not have asked Europe to investigate this. It is curious, because state aid can only take the form of a kind of subsidy. It can't be that state aid is tax increases, can it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip071x.u55	Mrs Temmerman, I am sorry to return to your remarks just now. It's almost touching that you quoted me, which is why I went to see exactly what I wrote. Are fair taxes always smart taxes?......................................................................................................................... The following sentence follows, which apparently you have not read: "How righteous is a tax that destroys jobs?" It's great you're quoting me. However, I would like you to quote me in full and not in part, that you do not quote me wrong and that you do not put into my mouth any intotonations that do not appear in the written text. I would like you to be just correct, Mrs Temmerman, for which I thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip071x.u56	Mr Vuye, I have just quoted what it says, no more or no less. I didn't quote the whole article, that's true. Mr President, you will forgive me if I do not always quote all the articles in full. Mr Vuye, I've just read what it says. Once again, as far as the intonation is concerned, I was referring to the intonation that you have just put in your voice, if you quote me, you must also quote me correctly. That wasn't from an article, but it was pronounced two seconds ago. Let us now talk about what, among other things, the Court of Auditors and the Council of State say about carat tax. I quote the Council of State: 'However, it is doubtful whether the diamond system can escape the qualification of State aid'. I repeat that the government itself takes this qualification into account, because it shares, in response to the reply it will receive from Europe, that its entry into force will depend on it. It therefore takes account of the fact that Europe could argue that it is state aid. The fact that it is a favor regime is actually almost literally stated in the explanatory notes on page 69. Mr Vuye, you will forgive me if I do not read the full explanation, but only part of it. Let me quote: 'Supporting the desire of the sector'. And on page 70, it says: "As proposed and accepted by the representative institutions of the diamond sector itself." Mr Vuye, perhaps I should finish my reasoning before interrupting me. You may interrupt me, I have no problem with that, but I still have two points to touch and then this section is finished. Perhaps then you can react at once, because at the next point you may want to interrupt me again. On the one hand, you yourself say that it is state aid and so does the industry itself. There is no doubt about it in the sector itself, and I quote the Antwerp diamond dome: "The carat tax would give the oxygen sector." It seems weird to me that a load is oxygenating in itself. So, the fact that oxygen is given almost implicitly means that it's about support. Finally, we must also know that the sector is so happy that there is even a willingness to settle the disputes currently pending with the tax authorities. That's what the explanation said. This is reported by the Minister of Finance in his note to the Court of Auditors. It says literally: "In addition, this figure' could be supplemented by a possible increase of EUR 5 million as a result of the willingness to complete the current legal dossiers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip071x.u57	You said you quoted me on page 70, but I think it was someone else.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip071x.u58	No, Mr Vuye, you shouldn't think it's always about you. I was just quoting a sentence from the explanatory statement. Once again, Mr Vuye, if you quote me, you must quote me correctly and not say anything else. No, Mr Vuye, it is not always about you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip071x.u59	Mrs Temmerman, I find it quite remarkable that you refer to the fact that we have contacted the sector in order to know whether or not this system could work. I believe that it is just one of your party's key issues to cooperate in a sector and try to form a good social democratic framework. I believe that we have done so here. I also understand that this confuses you, because if you look at the way in which the current tax legislation is put together and if you have to count on the tax control to get a proper tax assessment, that means that the current law is not good. She did not do what she had to do: in a correct, clear, pre-determined way, so that everyone knows what to do. That is why we have entered a system in which two things have happened. Part of the sector has left because of the lack of clarity, not because of the controls. You're talking about the oxygen. This law will allow proper stock management. This will help to ensure that the stock is properly valued and that it can be properly financed. You cannot face this problem, even though your legislation is at the root of it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip071x.u60	Mr Van de Velde, you remind me of wishful thinking. The right stock is now being done on a flat-rate basis. How can one know if that is the right stock? Just so we're clear, the diamonds didn't leave Antwerp for those reasons. There are many other reasons.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip071x.u61	Mr Van de Velde, I will come back to this later, but here are two short answers. It is strange that the sector says it will return from Dubai because there is a tax increase here. You're proposing it as a tax increase. People don't pay taxes in Dubai. Tell me another sector where that can be done. Would you remind me of a sector that pays zero euros of taxes somewhere, but still comes back to our country because this is where taxes on this sector are being increased? Why isn't this working, Mr. Van de Velde? Maybe the controls should be improved. I'll get back to you later. Now there is no need for control, because it is flat-rate.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip071x.u62	You've had 25 years to do that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip071x.u63	Where there were controls, well...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip071x.u64	Mrs Temmerman, Mr Vuye has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip071x.u65	I hear Mrs De Coninck talking about the stock, but nowadays people are working with another system. There is a flat-rate determination of the taxable result on the basis of the turnover realised and not of the stock.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip071x.u66	Is it a sales tax?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip071x.u67	I'm saying that stock valuation can happen completely now. The flat-rate system used to put that under the mat. Now that's not necessary. Firstly, because it is clear and there is another burden. Because proper stock management is possible, we can now go back to a normal system and normal operation, with funding and so on being possible for our diamondaires.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip071x.u68	Ladies and gentlemen, I do not want to be pedantic, I had to do it in committee, but Mr Vuye's diamond tax has just read out this tax, which is a tax on turnover. The stock is of course important in a normal economic fabric, where one can effectively say through the stock what the taxable profit is, but here it is different. It is a unique measure, we do not have it for any other system. We are now going to look at whether this can withstand Europe's review. In any case, it is a tax, a percentage of the turnover realised. So, ladies and gentlemen, stop talking about stocks and the like, it is just about that. Of course, it has an advantage, and Mr Van de Velde is right in that, because it is of course very important for the good and sound administration of that diamond dealer to be able to determine his stock correctly. What is present here is a unique and only system of determining the taxable base. The taxable basis is established here in a percentage on the turnover realised, no more and no less.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip071x.u69	Mr Van Biesen, we agree on one thing, namely that it is a unique proposal. We are of course less in agreement on the rest, because it is simply a proposal to favour the diamond sector compared to today. I will reply later to what Mr Van de Velde said about the controls. Let us talk again about the percentage of 0.55% on the normal margins in the sector. This is the result of all kinds of calculations, but if we ask for those calculations, whatever the Court of Auditors has done, it becomes clear that we have actually started from a budget objective of 50 million and that we have taken that 0.55. I'm not saying that, but that's what the Treasury Inspectorate says. According to the Court of Auditors, the opinion of the Treasury Inspectorate makes it very clear that it is unclear whether the percentage of 0.55% used is a correct estimate of the comparison with the regular system. The Court of Auditors also says that Deloitte's study, which we did not see in the end, does not answer the question of whether a tax of 0.55% on turnover is a correct percentage compared to the common income tax system. It simply had to pay EUR 50 million, and then we looked at how that could happen. On the basis of the profit margins in past accounting records, which the FBI says in brackets that they are doubtful, one might say that this is an advantage. However, ladies and gentlemen, why should a diamond dealer be happy with the carat tax, which the government and the sector say will bring more to the government? The answer is clear, it is actually a support to the diamond sector. That's the real reason. I want to prove this once again. The carat tax has already been on the table during the previous legislature. At that time, the BBI gave an opinion to the government, which was as follows: "The BBI has already conducted several investigations with diamond dealers. These investigations show that the diamond sector is highly susceptible to fraud. For example, it has been found that the content of the Kimberley certificates is not always conclusive for the control in Belgium and that proper control of the Diamant Office is not always possible. This is literally from the advice of the BBI. The conclusion of this note is therefore, and I quote: "The practical experience of the BBI shows that the diamond sector is more of a fraud-prone sector. In the first instance, it could therefore be argued that it is not appropriate to systematically move away from reality within this sector and move to a flat-rate calculation, in particular carat tax. This advice from the BBI is disregarding this government. The previous government did follow that advice and did not introduce the carat tax. A recent report by the FATF-GAFI on money laundering in Belgium also makes it very clear that attention should be paid to this sector because it is highly sensitive to fraud. Let me give you another figure, ladies and gentlemen. From the statistics of the Financial Information Processing Cell, we can conclude that in 2013 the diamond sector accounted for well-known one case of money laundering, which means that we have a problem there. It is cynical that one of the most sensitive sectors of fraud is given a favor regime. That's the conclusion. Also the FPS Finance says and confirms that. The percentage of diamonds in SwissLeaks also shows this. I give you another quote, but from a professor who probably doesn't appreciate you, Mr Maus. He says in Humo: "What signal do we send to society?" Festival and fraud as much as you like, but organize a strong lobby and then the problem resolves itself. He continues: "This law regulates the black profits of the past at a homeopathic tax rate, at an ever smaller amount." Ladies and gentlemen, I think it is clear.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip071x.u70	That's the story I've heard blowing through socialist ranks for the last six or seven years. The continuous stigmatisation of whole sectors, without any nuance, is appalling. Those companies that cheat must be dealt with. They need to be tackled seriously, but each time stigmatizing a whole sector is faint and disgusting. You run into 30 000 employees here. These are people who participate in an important part of our GDP that day in, day out. I'm very sorry you keep doing that. In addition, we will perhaps have a look at this with your colleague in Antwerp. Today, the AWDC is absolutely prepared to contribute to a better and more stringent control system. They absolutely want to take up the gauntlet, because they want to get rid of the stigma that your party and your political will continue to apply. I'm thinking Laaouej and associates. Take those who fraud and stop stigmatizing the sector. You want to make that a sort of welfare story, about those twinkling diamonds that everyone knows will cost a lot of money and probably will raise a lot of money, and that we make a point of that. No, Mrs Temmerman, we are talking about the sector, about GDP, about added value, about a sector that gives a lot of people a job and food and drink.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip071x.u71	Mr Van de Velde, it may be that there are a few companies in between. I know the reality in Antwerp a little bit. I've seen a lot of diamond clippers and cocktail grinders. You should ask how their wages are paid. They get a minimum wage and the rest in black.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip071x.u72	Mrs De Coninck, this proposal is not at all about diamond grinders and cliffs. I'm not sure why you're bringing that up.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip071x.u73	What Mr Van de Velde said just now, Mr Vuye, did refer to that. You obviously did not hear what Mr Van de Velde said. There's a little communication disorder between you, isn't there? Mr van de Velde, I would also like to ask you to quote me correctly. I just quoted the Treasury and the BBI. It was the BBI who said that the sector is extremely sensitive to fraud. It was the GAFI who said that the sector is extremely sensitive to fraud. You always point to the socialists, but I am based on scientific texts, on texts from the minister's services and on an opinion given by the department on this law, albeit in the previous government. It is therefore not a statement from me, neither from Mr Laaouej, nor from sp.a, nor from the Socialists. It is a statement by a professor and a statement by a number of services who know very well what is going on in this sector. If you want to deny this reality, I think that's a bit taken by the hair. Mr van de Velde, I agree with you that we must support the sectors. I also agree with you that we must tackle the fraudsters. You just asked what we have done in the past. Well, in the past, Omega Diamonds, the company that cheated, has raised 150 million. Your taxes are going to raise 50 million for the whole sector. One company, 150 million! Do you know how much the same company would have to pay with your scheme? 3.8 million instead of 150 million. So don't tell me you're trying to deal with the fraud. We wanted to tackle fraud, but you are not taking any further steps. It would be a good thing if you were to say that this sector should be effectively made healthy. We can do that if we take out the fraudsters, but unfortunately you will certainly not take out the fraudsters with this tax. On the contrary, you will stimulate them. Mr Maus also said that he feared that rough diamonds would be passed on to ordinary diamonds, which would then be subject to the tax of 0.55% and no longer subject to the actual levy. That's what's gonna happen. And before you say that it is the socialists who stigmatize again, that statement is not from me but from Professor Maus.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip071x.u74	Mrs Temmerman, comparing a fraud file with regular new taxes, how unfair can one be? Let us keep the discussion as it should be. There was a system and it didn't work. Tax controls were needed to try to recover something. This is now being transformed into a clearly clear system, whereby both the sector and the government can properly foresee and apply taxes. I do not know if you have already visited the diamond sector, but I would like to organise it for you. In no sector does Economic Affairs play as short on the ball as in the diamond sector. In that regard, ma'am, I think you're wrong in every possible way.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip071x.u75	Mr Van de Velde, I will end with a brief summary. This tax is an aid measure. Why else would the European Commission launch an investigation, do you think? Because they suspect that this is support. Is it not strange that a state aid investigation is being carried out for a tax increase, so to speak? Secondly, why would the sector welcome carat tax as necessary oxygen for the sector? That's really weird for a tax increase, isn't it? I haven't heard from any of the sectors. Why, as has just been said, would diamonds believe that they will come back from Dubai, where they pay zero taxes, because there would supposedly be a tax increase here? You don't believe that, Mr Van de Velde. Finally, I repeat that by means of proper control, which you will not do, because there will no longer be the necessary staff for that control, that is another debate, however, the proceeds were 150 million. With your carat tax, the proceeds are 3.8 million. It is scandalous that you want to implement this measure. We have therefore tabled a number of amendments to the carat tax. We have tabled an amendment to delete it. So you can still reflect and not allow that carat tax to be applied. A second amendment may be even more important. You're saying you really want to deal with the fraudsters. Well, in the second amendment we are asking for the removal of the possibility for traders in rough diamonds to be subject to normal corporate tax. If you are so committed to the fight against fraud, I would suggest that you approve that second amendment. Mr van de Velde, my fellow Members of the majority, a third amendment stipulates that the tax in question will lapse if it appears that the accounting profit is too far from the profit fixed on a flat-rate basis, i.e. double that. That amendment, too, is quite reasonable. If the accounting profit is double what Professor Maus suspects, namely that so much more profit is made that goes all the way to the shareholders, and you really mean it, then that tax should be able to lapse. I hope you will also approve that amendment. My second point concerns the taxation of intercommunals. It is clear that a number of things will be passed on to the families here. Other members have already mentioned it, very often it is about an association of hospitals. There are the intercommunals around water and the intercommunals around electricity. They are all services to which ordinary citizens call. If a tax is levied on those services, it means that this tax will be passed on to the families anyway. My fellow Members from Open Vld, this is, once again, in addition to what you defended with such great fire yesterday, in particular the increase in VAT on electricity, an increase in family taxes. The worst thing, ladies and gentlemen, is that you have seen this yourself, because you yourself have tabled an amendment not to apply it to hospitals or to water consumption. Unfortunately, the Council of State has said that this cannot be done; it is only still possible not to apply it to hospitals. However, water is also a basic requirement. Yet you will continue to do so, just as for electricity. Ladies and gentlemen, you know that all the measures taken here and at Flemish level on energy and electricity will increase the electricity bill for our citizens by 30%. At 30%! Part of it is the tax on those intercommunals.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip071x.u76	Mr President, I could have asked Ahmed Laaouej the same question, who said the same thing earlier. I would like to understand the reasoning that leads you to say that taxation of intercommunals will increase tariffs. What we tax is an existing benefit. I do not see why the taxation of profits should lead the intercommunal to increase its tariffs to the detriment of consumers. I would like you to explain to me the reasoning behind this price increase. If one taxes an intercommunal on its profit, it already pays a price higher than the actual cost. Why then increase the price to the consumer and therefore the benefit? I'd like you to explain it to me, because I don't understand.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip071x.u77	Without pretending to teach a lesson, I find your reasoning very interesting, Mr. Piedboeuf. To follow you, finally, we can without any problem increase corporate tax, for example. What would force them to increase sales prices to customers?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip071x.u78	Calm down! You, who only have the word "competitiveness" in your mouth, who complain about the height of wage costs, social charges and who want to reduce wages and employers' social contributions to enable businesses to be more competitive, now adopt a reverse reasoning as far as intercommunals are concerned. Be consistent, Mr. Piedboeuf!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip071x.u79	Ladies and gentlemen, I do not want to be pedantic, as I said earlier, but I also had to explain this in committee. As in committee, I have to say it again. Normally, the introduction of corporate tax on intercommunals will lead to a fall in prices in the short term, a fall in prices in the medium term, and in the longer term, this may indeed lead to a fair price setting when the intercommunals finally realize that they should not work on the principle of profit, but only get the money from citizens for what they really need to provide these basic needs such as water and electricity. In a first phase, this will lead to a fall in prices, also in the medium term, as reserves will be reduced. You know that very well too, because a lot of your people occupy very high posts in those intercommunals. You have also seen, Mrs Temmerman, how many billions of reserves some intercommunals have, stored money at the expense of the municipalities and the citizens, without having returned it to the municipalities, without having returned it to the users. It is therefore high time we put a stop to this. In this way, we can send people the right bill for their electricity, their water and such tasks that the intercommunals carry out today. So I repeat what I said in committee. In the short term this will lead to a fall in prices, in the medium term it will lead to a fall in prices and in the slightly longer term prices will indeed have to be adjusted to the actual price at that time.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip071x.u80	Mr President, I think Mr Laaouej is already in the clouds of the mountains where he is going to go on vacation because we do not understand anything! I just asked why it would raise the rate? I'd like to have this explained to me!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip071x.u81	I will try to explain it on the basis of an example from a sector that Mr Piedboeuf knows well, the beer sector. When the fees on the beer are increased, the brewers increase the price they ask the café bosses, on which the café bosses raise their price for a beer. That is what happens when the fees are raised: prices go up.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip071x.u82	I believe that the explanation of the people of the opposition is clear, but I would like to point out to my fellow Members of the majority that there is a real inconsistency. You know that 27 municipalities have been drawn to the Council of State against this tax. I will not list all these municipalities, but it is very strange that, among other things, the municipality of Lubbeek, where Secretary of State Francken is mayor of the title, is there. Isn't it strange that he goes against himself to the Council of State? It is very strange that Puurs, where Flemish group leader Koen Van den Heuvel is mayor and where Deputy Prime Minister Kris Peeter's council member is, is also present. Colleagues, either we are defending this measure or we are fighting it, but it is of two things one. We cannot say, on the one hand, that we support the measure, because it is a good measure and, on the other hand, we are opposed to the measure because it is a bad one. I can't do that, fellow Members. Just the fact that these municipalities, where members of your majority have executive powers, go to the Council of State, proves that this is a bad measure, which is going to end up in the middle of families again, as we are already used to in this government. So it's nothing new under the sun, again the power of change. Ladies and gentlemen, if you are already sure that this is a bad measure, because your own colleagues in the municipalities are opposed to it, then you can still correct it. We have tabled an amendment to that effect, and we are giving you that opportunity. The aim of the amendment is not only to leave the intercommunals and hospitals, but also the distribution of drinking water, electricity and gas and the management of household waste. I am sure that after this debate the majority will vote enthusiastically in favour of our amendments. Colleagues, I come to the caiman tax, which is inspired by the Dutch system. Back then, Secretary of State Crombez proposed a Cayman tax in the previous legislature. Unfortunately, the then government party Open Vld did not want it. Mr Van Overtveldt, I think you are always correct, according to your vision, of course, to answer the questions that are being asked and that you are also explaining. However, you have disappointed me very much. Not in your political opinion, because I know them, and they can only disappoint me. You have disappointed me in the way you say in your introduction: so many others have tried to do something about it, and we are doing it now. The reality is a bit different. You have accepted our proposal, but not at all. You seem to have little inspiration to change a lot about it, because it's actually the same thing, but you're not going to go through with it. You also say: we are doing it here, this government is making a proposal. It is indeed a bit of our child, but we do think that you are raising it very badly.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip071x.u83	Mrs. Temmerman, you're just developing a very interesting reasoning. You say it's our child, our proposal. It's not really your child, it's from the Netherlands, let's be honest about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip071x.u84	The inspiration comes from the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip071x.u85	He's an adopted child. Then you say something very interesting. You say: Mr Crombez wanted to do so, but he did not get it through. You guys sure got that. So, in fact, you admit that we make a difference. Do I understand you correctly, or do I misunderstand you? You admit that we make a difference.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip071x.u86	Mr Vuye, I am going to say something very personal. I take it very seriously that you say that an adopted child is not a child. Yes, you did. You said: it is not your child, it is an adopted child. This is a personal matter. This is also a personal fact.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip071x.u87	Mrs. Temmerman, that's certainly not personal. I would ask you once again not to put into my mouth any intonations, no insinuations, no insults I did not mean. That is also very personal to you, because it is not the first time you have done so.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip071x.u88	Mr Vuye, I stand by it, it is very personal to me. It really hits me, for me, this is a personal fact. An adopted child is also a real child. Let's just leave it at that. Let's close this incident with this.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip071x.u89	I have not said at any time that an adopted child would not be a child. In another life I teach human rights, I insist that I am not accused of such matters. Especially when I haven't told them.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip071x.u90	I take it you didn't mean it like that. I'll get it in a minute. Again, this is very personal. Let's close the incident. It's a tax debate. So, it was our child and you raised it badly. If the caiman tax is to be applied, then there must also be a closing piece. That's the offshore approach. It's a good thing the tax is coming, but what's wrong with it? One doesn't see where the capital comes from. In fact, they've been asked literally. Let me quote again: "The inspection services are asked not to use a first declaration of the viewing tax as a criterion in data mining or in the selection of tax controls." This means that we do indeed have a caiman tax, but we do not see where the capital comes from. If that capital comes from fraudulent constructions or whatever, let it be committed. What is more, in order to remove the fear that a first declaration of the viewing tax will automatically lead to tax investigations of previous years, the tax administration makes it clear to the taxpayer that a first declaration is suspected to be solely the result of the new scheme and therefore does not constitute a presumption of prior tax irregularities.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip071x.u91	Mr President, Mrs Temmerman has every reason to be concerned and I share her concerns. Fiction scenario: tomorrow, offshore structures pay more than 15% tax, while they do not pay taxes today. This fiction, I would remind you, consists in transposing the Belgian tax system to these offshore structures. It really doesn't make any sense. These offshore structures will no longer have to be declared. This means that the tax administration will not be aware of the fact that a Belgian taxpayer has economic interests in an offshore structure. That's where you're missing your target. Unfortunately, you have denatured the sp.a.'s proposal, tabled in Parliament, which can still be reactivated, rebuffed, because it covered all offshore structures. I think unfortunately, your Cayman tax becomes a Gruyère tax, that is, it will allow a whole series of loopholes. It's not too late to change your mind yet. I ask you to draw inspiration from the amendments that have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip071x.u92	That's exactly it, Mr. Laaouej. You're absolutely right.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip071x.u93	Mr President, I can understand the uncertainty of some of my fellow Members when they ask whether the legislation is perfect. I made a very good note of what happened last time. We can indeed call Mr Crombez the father of an initiative in the same direction as the present Cayman tax. Mrs Temmerman, how do you explain that anyone who writes about this or makes a calculation of the legislation before us today says that it will bring much more than what was initiated by the government? Everyone says that it is clear legislation that is going to bring much more. How can this law be so patchy and miserable and give so many doubts that so many amendments are needed, if everyone assumes that the revenue from this caiman tax will be much higher than that provided for in this programme law? In the future, it will even give rise to a much higher yield. By the way, yesterday the Finance Minister made it very clear that a number of adjustments to this caiman tax next year will add a larger segment, namely a number of countries that were not included in the calculation, namely the United States and the like, to the caiman tax operation as such. In other words, I do not see how it can be said that it is a worse version than Mr Crombez's version. You know that we stopped them at the time, because we think there were some inaccuracies. We want to see Mr Crombez as the founding father of the idea, we want to give him this title perfectly, if you like. We would like a cup to be poured or a statue to be erected, if that is what you would like. An sichis this measure is so correct, and it tackles a number of assets that we have not yet been able to identify; we look right through these structures and we can indeed bring money here. Everyone, but everyone, says that this is going to bring much more than is included in this programme law. In other words, I do not understand the concern of some members of the opposition that it is incomplete and bad legislation, much worse than the initiative of the founding father you are quoting.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip071x.u94	Mr Van Biesen, a little serious! You read the documents that were in the possession of the Court of Auditors like me. The Court concludes that it cannot assess the budgetary performance that has been arbitrarily set by the government. She says she doesn't have enough elements. I personally went to the Court of Auditors to look at the records on which it relied. It's not serious! The performance that has been set is not based on anything! The interest of the sp.a. proposal was to offer a very broad scope. Here, you have narrowed the scope and you claim that this will bring more than the Crombez proposal could report. That doesn't make any sense!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip071x.u95	Mr Laaouej, effective, it is. Mr Van Biesen, I do not dispute that the law you are proposing is going to bring about anything. I don't dispute that. I do not think my fellow Members would dispute that either. Except you should have gone much further. Cd&V colleagues, if we are in favour of justice and if, as I have heard earlier, the fellow Members of the N-VA absolutely want to fight fraud, then you must go much further. To prove that again, I'd like to take a quote from Minister Geens. Minister Geens answers to a question by Mr Vanvelthoven literally: "In the case of the HSBC investigations by the parquet, "Now comes the "Now" in the cases where a recently established foreign offshore company was used, the Public Prosecutor considers that it can be assumed that falsehood was committed in writing, in which the offshore company was not established to carry out real trading activities but merely to hide the identity of the real owner or beneficiary of the capital held in the foreign bank account from among others the Belgian fiscal authorities. What does that say, Mr. Van Biesen? With your legislation you will tax a particle, but the origin of the amounts will not charge you. However, your own minister, Minister Geens, refers to investigations of the parquet, in which the parquet warns that the origin of those capitals is probably fraudulent. So you must go much further. It will bring much more for the state treasury if you really want to deal with fraud, as you all claim here. This was possible with Mr Crombez's proposal, and that is not possible anymore. That's probably why you were against it. I wasn't there and I don't know, but probably that was one of the reasons why you opposed it. Again, I do not dispute at all that this caiman tax will pay anything. Only it will not deal with the great fraud and will not deal with the origins of the capitals.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip071x.u96	Mrs. Temmerman, two things apart. I believe that the Minister will make that clear in a moment. This caiman tax is a new tax that we introduce to look through companies. Is this a new instrument against tax fraud? No, it is a new tax, which is going to tax what one is trying to cover up or has somehow withdrawn from Belgian taxes.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip071x.u97	That is exactly what I am saying, Mr Van Biesen.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip071x.u98	No, that's not what you're saying. You say that this caiman tax should be an instrument for combating tax fraud. We say that this is an instrument from today to always to go on and on and see what is trying to escape the tax in order to be able to tax it here. That's what we do. That is fundamentally different from what you say. You're saying that the caiman tax should be used to look at these people's bank accounts and see where they got it from. That's not what that caiman tax is about.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip071x.u99	Mr Van Biesen, you are absolutely right.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip071x.u100	Mrs Temmerman, there is a second element to which I would like to draw your and everyone else's attention. You always talk about just taxes. Are you saying that any tax that exists today and has been approved by this Parliament throughout all the years that this country has been in existence is an unfair tax by every group that is present here? You now want to introduce fair taxes. Are you saying that you have always introduced unfair taxes? Be a little honest with yourself.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip071x.u101	Mr Van Biesen, I did not say this at all. In your reply, you are absolutely right. What do we say? If this government claims to want to fight fraud, then this is an excellent instrument. Your own Minister None says that the origin of these amounts is usually fraudulent. Get on with it! In your reply, you do not contradict me. On the contrary, you agree with me. One could go much further. As usual, this government says: the fraudsters are not going to be dealt with here, and we leave the fraudsters to rest. Then I'll come to the bank tax. The banking tax is a good thing. It is good that the financial sector, which is the cause of the crisis that we are still experiencing, should not forget that it also contributes a little. This sector bears a crushing responsibility in the crisis. The government agreement states that the bank levy that would be introduced would be adjusted as the risk profile of the bank is higher. Unfortunately, that is not the case here. The smaller banks have protested against this bank tax and rightly so, because it will burden the smaller banks and the deposit banks, which work seriously, much more heavily than the larger banks and certainly the banks that bear risk liabilities. Why has this not been addressed when we see what the crisis has caused by the high risk behaviour of a number of banks? I repeat, however, that the banking tax in itself is a good thing. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to review the amendments in order to give you the opportunity to support us if, as you have just said, you want to take action. Cd&V colleagues, in addition to the amendments that I have explained on the various subjects, I have also tabled an amendment for a real tax shift. A tax on added value, Mr Van Rompuy. I am sure that you will now take action and approve it. We're curious. I've got another one for you, Mr. Cd&V's colleagues: the index jump for rental prices. Once again, you have the opportunity to take action. We have also tabled an amendment on this subject which you can support.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip071x.u102	I would like to support Mrs Temmerman in her invitation to update the CD&V. I just took note of the interview given by Mr Van Overtveldt in De Tijd. Mrs Smaers has just said in the Chair that this debate is not over. Vice Prime Minister Peeters stated in the newspaper this morning that he will continue to put fiscal justice on the agenda. I understand Mrs Temmerman's invitation all the better now. Mr Van Overtveldt says: 'No new discussions on taxation.' You are now trying to stand back after yesterday's defeat by saying that the discussion is not over, but is still following. That is what Mr Peeters says in De Tijd today. However, Mr Van Overtveldt blasts that door again with unseen speed. Mrs Smaers, these two things cannot be reconciled, can they? Have you read the interview, Mr Van Rompuy? Mr Van Overtveldt said that today. If necessary, we'll spread it here on the banks. (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip071x.u103	Members want to be able to control that, don't they? I read it out: Minister of Finance Johan Van Overtveldt (N-VA) has no point in negotiating a third tax shift in this legislature. CD&V Deputy Prime Minister Kris Peeters had conducted an assessment. It could have been said that Mrs Smaers just said that in the Chamber. How long does CD&V last? You come here today to approve a series of antisocial taxes, a favor regime for the diamond sector, you stand your back after yesterday and say it will come, mañana, mañana, mañana. While you say that in the Chair, Mr Van Overtveldt says that it has been done, that there will be no fairer taxes in this country during this legislature, that the debate is closed. (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip071x.u104	Is there still anything possible? It's one or the other. It is said that there will be no further discussion during this term of office. That is something other than what a coalition partner just said in the chair.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip071x.u105	Mr Calvo, I think we should give him the opportunity to adopt the amendments later. Then the act is added to the word effectively. We look forward to it with great interest. I have one more amendment to discuss. It is a question of restricting the extended friendly settlement. We shouldn't think back to SwissLeaks. That's all fresh in memory. Ladies and gentlemen, what is my amendment for? The aim is to give the services, which are already very limited and which, when we see what remains to be done, will be even more limited in their control function in the future, really the opportunity to go to the big fraudsters. So let us also approve the restriction of the extended friendly settlement. Ladies and gentlemen, the sum of 250 million coming from the regularizations, which we have now seen in the tables to our great surprise, is unlikely. I was of the opinion that we had put an end to these regularizations with the previous government. Colleagues of CD&V, you were also an absolute supporter of the abolition of the regularisations. Once again, we have to see that the action is not really included in the speech. After all, EUR 250 million of regularisations have been registered. However, I would like to give you once again the opportunity to put things right by approving our amendment. Colleagues of CD&V, admit that we are a constructive opposition, which gives you at least four times the chance to effectively take action. I hope you will seize those opportunities this time.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip071x.u106	Mr President, after speaking this morning on the social side of the programme law, I am now speaking on its tax side. As regards, first of all, the Cayman tax, as the work in committee has shown, there has been no systematic analysis of the declarations of the previous years of the companies concerned and, in so doing, there is also no guarantee of redress in the event of past tax evasion, even though the tax administration can investigate suspicions of tax evasion. Very generous exemptions are granted to various companies, including investment agencies or publicly traded companies, on the pretext that they are otherwise controlled. However, the controls in question do not relate to compliance with tax obligations. There is also no tax payable in Belgium, if a 15% tax has been paid in the host country. This practice maintains a differential advantage in investing capital in the countries concerned, which may open the door to a new legal form of tax evasion. In summary, if one can follow the objective of a tax contribution from Belgian companies or citizens with offshore companies, the proposed legislation has shortcomings such that a substantial and unjustified tax advantage remains for investors in offshore structures with the risk of creating a new air appeal for new tax avoidance practices. In addition, too many unjustified exceptions remain in this new regime, whether in respect of past non-taxations or specific statutes. As we have tried to demonstrate in committee, alternatives exist. Thus, one could question the exemption enjoyed by certain companies in an unjustified way, apply CFC rules, as is the case in many other European countries – the tax paid in the tax haven is deductible from the tax payable in Belgium. Therefore, there would no longer be a competitive advantage in placing his money in tax havens. On the other hand, companies economically active in the latter would not be penalized from the moment they pay a normal tax equivalent to that which they should have paid for economic activities and profits made in Belgium with a division between the tax actually paid in the country concerned and that paid in our country. As far as the Diamant tax is concerned, it is clearly a tailor-made scheme, which is particularly advantageous for the diamond sector and relies mainly on blackmail for relocation rather than on a particular economic reality. In this regard, I would like to ask Mr. Van Rompuy, but he's not here. I'll put it down later. This text should have been the subject of a specific initiative rather than being drowned in a programme law. Under consideration under the previous legislature, the idea of this particular regime was abandoned following a murderous opinion of the FPS Finances considering the sector particularly sensitive to fraud, as demonstrated by the HSBC file, and instead advocating a strengthening of its control mechanisms. Anti-abuse devices are completely incomplete and based on the good faith of the sector. While the burden of proof should be reversed, it is up to the sector to prove, in particular, the licit origin of the diamonds sold. Today, nothing has changed with regard to this sector, except the presence in the government of a party that is even more sensitive than the others to the arguments of this very active sector in the Antwerp region. The opinion of the Council of State on this issue is particularly critical. Like the Finance Inspectorate, he felt that budgetary assessments were subject to caution, and above all, that this specific regime might be contrary to European non-competition rules. [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip071x.u107	We all wonder! At a time when important elements are mentioned, it is clear that he prefers to be absent, and we can understand that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip071x.u108	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip071x.u109	I don't think so! For any other economic sector, Europe's positive opinion would probably have been awaited before legislation was adopted. Another sign of the fact that the diamond sector has a particularly long arm compared to the federal government. The expected revenue is very low given the profits made by the sector and also the amounts paid in certain fraud cases such as the "Omega Diamonds" case. I now turn to the measures for the companies that are starting up on which my colleague Vanden Burre will speak earlier. In principle, we can only support the idea that start-ups benefit from a specific support scheme encouraging venture capital investments. On the other hand, it appears that the proposed legislation has many loopholes that could lead to tax engineering and heavy losses to the public treasury, as the Council of State has expressed concern. Amendments were made to the text by the majority in the context of the budgetary discussions, but they appear to be insufficient in relation to the risks represented. Rather than adopting imperfect legislation whose experience indicates that it is difficult to amend subsequently, it would have been necessary to act with greater measure and prudence. With regard to the banking tax, once again, the federal majority adopts the principle of a bank tax which penalises smaller institutions by making them proportionally more of the budget effort than the level of risks they represent, de facto benefiting the largest institutions with the largest risk profile and which, for some of them, have been responsible for the banking crisis that we have experienced. It would have been necessary to act in a very different way, as the British government did by adopting legislation and a tax system that would encourage the emergence of smaller banks whose diversity corresponds to the needs of different segments of the market and which can better distribute risks. Mr Van Rompuy, you who were commissioned at the time by the CD&V to lay the groundwork for the tax shift that the government presented to us yesterday, what do you think of the amounts that are mentioned here? Can you explain how you can integrate the Diamond tax as part of a tax shift tax? In your view, is this part of the reorientation that the CD&V advocated and, if so, where could we read this kind of proposal in its program? Mr President, I now await Mr. Van Rompuy, who was not present when I developed this point. His answer could be interesting for the continuation of the debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip071x.u110	I feel like I'm taking an exam! The Ecolo Group, specifically Mr Calvo and Mr Nollet, are asking me questions. I wonder if this is a truth test or a multiple choice test! What does the examiner expect from me?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip071x.u111	You were in charge of this case. Before you can unload it, we need to hear from you about it, especially on this part, to determine whether or not this is relevant to your calculation of the amount of the tax shift. You can answer according to a multiple choice, but we will not quote different figures here. Say it more frankly yourself! Do you find yourself in this part? Do you consider this to be a translation? If so, what part of your program?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip071x.u112	First of all, I am pleased that Mr Van Rompuy has found his voice. For a moment, we thought he'd lost his voice. Thanks to Mr Nollet's question, we know she's back. Mr Nollet's question is similar to mine. Mr Van Rompuy, you have insisted on asking that question as a multiple-choice question. I'll accept that invitation. According to Eric Van Rompuy, the tax shift that was yesterday is definitely a good thing? A: very good. B: okay. C: good nor good. D: bad. E: a bitch's trick. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip071x.u113	Get back to start-up.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip071x.u114	Mr Van Rompuy, you have invited us to ask you a multiple-choice question. We can't make any more efforts. You found your voice. Use them. Let Parliament know what your attitude is on this decided tax shift.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip071x.u115	Mr Calvo, I have told you a few times. One can ask for the floor, but one should not speak here at the request of fellow Members.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip071x.u116	As there is freedom of speech in Parliament, there is freedom of silence.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip071x.u117	You can say whatever you want and so can the other members. No one has to answer your questions unless it concerns ministers. [[...]] [[: (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip071x.u118	May I ask you to continue, Mr. Nollet?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip071x.u119	Mr President, I am unable to continue. In the face of this sidereal lack of response on the part of Mr. Van Rompuy, I have to get out of this. Unfortunately, we will remain unanswered by the CD&V.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip071x.u120	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this afternoon's sitting began on a rather consensual basis with relatively concise interventions and in the spirit of the Holy Father, to quote Mr Piedboeuf. Besides, I do not know whether it is due to fatigue, to the approach to the end of the session or to the feeling that everything has already been said about the programme law, with the passing time, important debates are taking place. We made the connection with the tax shift. Indeed, one can wonder about the different perceptions that we can have. Behind the facade satisfaction displayed by the majority, one feels a few states of soul, some differences of appreciation. Behind any agreement, whether it is the one that is sunk in the draft program bill or the one on the tax shift that has been announced, there are necessarily positive and negative elements. We can all have a nuanced appreciation. In any case, my wish is to have a balanced assessment of the text proposed here, as I had the opportunity to say during the debates in committee. I don't throw everything in the trash. I do not consider that everything should be swept away with a back of the hand. I agree, for example, with the proposals discussed in committee at noon on the amendments introduced. I find that some elements may be the subject of consensus. Even in the text of the programme law, some elements seem interesting to me, going in the right direction. At the same time, I do not give full satisfaction to the majority. The first positive element is certainly this transparency tax, this Cayman tax filling a gap in the legal framework of our tax systems. It will now be applicable to legal constructions. This is an objective that I think is very commendable. That being said, beyond adherence to the objective, a number of questions can still be raised. I don't want to criticize for pleasure, but beyond good intentions, I sometimes wonder if the results will live up to expectations. I would just like to point out some ambiguities. The very purpose of the measure can be called into question. In committee, Minister, you told me that you pursued two simultaneous objectives. But they seem contradictory to me. On the one hand, you want to dismantle certain structures designed to evade tax. On the other hand, you're looking to increase the recipes. I still think it's hard to reconcile. A clarification is needed, especially as you arrive with at least fluctuating numbers. Indeed, the tables that were distributed yesterday show that an additional €260 million could be expected. We will have an opportunity to discuss this again because I am not sure that you will achieve these budgetary objectives. The bill contains provisions that undermine the intended purpose and may render the Cayman tax inoperative, in whole or in part. It provides, for example, that the legal structure will be able to benefit from all the deductions contained in the Income Tax Code. In addition, clause 38 of the bill removes the reporting requirement. This will certainly weaken the scope of this measure. Similarly, its application would require a systematic exchange of information. However, this is not provided for in Article 39, although Belgium had undertaken to set up such a mechanism. We must remain vigilant in this regard, especially since the purpose of this mechanism is commendable. A second step seems to me to be going in the right direction. This is obviously the tax shelter, to which the cdH subscribes. Stimulating business creation, how do we not agree with this objective? We know that Belgians are accumulating their savings in several accounts for a total of 260 billion euros. It should be used to help boost growth. This is one of the goals of the tax shelter. In this regard, we have no states of soul. Nevertheless, a few questions deserve to be asked. First, the proposed scheme for SMEs, unlike the Cooreman-De Clercq Act, does not envisage any compensation for the beneficiary of the tax advantage. It's your choice. We will see if, in practice, this is not likely to cause problems. Minister, the text you are proposing on behalf of the government opens the door to tax engineering mechanisms, perhaps with the risk that the scheme will not ultimately benefit only real start-ups and that there will be a sort of boon effect. If this were the case, the cost of the measure could well exceed the government's budget. I have no reservations about the principle of exemption for loans via crowdfunding platforms, except that this law does not define what an approved platform is. There is a gap in the legal arsenal. And while waiting for this lack to be filled, there is concern that the provision may prove to be inapplicable. In more or less positive measures, I would like to highlight the one which provides for the extension of the deduction for single investment in digital goods, in particular payment systems and cybersecurity equipment. The CDH supports this measure all the more readily as we have tabled, through my colleague Vanessa Matz, a bill along the same lines. It is clear that the use of electronic payment has many advantages, including the strengthening of business security and the fight against tax fraud. The third major chapter for which I have no major difficulty concerns the banking contribution. This is a limitation of certain tax advantages enjoyed by the banking sector, in particular as regards notional interests. We are therefore dealing here with notional interests, and I would like to welcome them. I would even tend to invite you to go further. I know it's hopeless because the majority decided to keep this system against winds and tides. However, here, you question it in part as part of the banking contribution. I think you would be well advised to go further in calling into question a mechanism that is known to be so expensive for the budget and how little or no benefit it has, in an unfair way, to all businesses, particularly SMEs. Minister, if there are chapters that require nuanced appraisals, including positive assessments, such as the three chapters that I have just mentioned, there are, however, elements in your program bill that are frankly not going through. I am not going to relaunch the debates that we have had in committee and again this afternoon, but the carat tax regime is one of those elements on which we cannot reconcile. Mrs Wouters said that we would see in the future, on the basis of Europe's opinion, whether this was a fair measure or support for the diamond sector. As far as we are concerned, this is very clearly a gift to this sector, whatever the arguments put forward by Mr. Van de Velde. In a way, I can understand that some Antwerp elected officials are keen to support an important activity in the sector. There is no illegitimacy to do so, but what I am concerned about here is that the diamond sector is not quite a sector like the others. To be sure, it is enough to read the reports published by the Financial Action Task Force, the FATF. As has been said on several occasions, this sector is particularly exposed to money-laundering practices and high financial crime. It is known that the SwissLeaks file has revealed among the many perpetrators of fraud, diamonds and not least. It is therefore a sector that deserves preferential treatment but not in the sense that you propose it. Rather, it would be to be attentive to fraud and money laundering practices and to be concerned with the fight against fraud in that sector. At the antipode of this approach, you offer us a tailor-made device. If it were to be appreciated to its proper extent, it would be sufficient to refer to the press release published by the Antwerp World Diamond Centre as of March 31, 2015. It was a real cry of victory. I do not believe that a tax which the sector itself welcomes can be presented and interpreted as a tax on this sector. On the contrary, it is a real gift. We can't condone him. I must say that even in committee, the attitude of the government and the majority has borne this suspicion somewhat. We were refused the hearings that were requested, when we had quite frankly the time to do so, between the introduction of your text and the vote in committee. The government also refused to include in the report the opinion of the FPS Finances dating back to 2013 which pointed to certain problems. This would have made it possible to shed light on all the readers of our proceedings. In the same spirit, Mr. Minister, you refused to communicate the opinion of the Finance Inspectorate referred to by the Council of State in its own opinion. Nor did you agree to communicate the impact assessment carried out by Deloitte, also mentioned by the Council of State. You kind of passed on the message that you had to circulate, that there was nothing to see! That's not our feeling at all. On the contrary, we have the impression that, in this area, what is to be seen behind your smoke screens is not pretty, pretty. This is enough to discredit this preferential regime that you are granting to the diamond sector. Mr President, I should like to refer to a final chapter, which is just as improbable as the previous one: the chapter on the taxation of intercommunals. I have the impression that on this subject, you have carried out a purely ideological approach. I am not defending the world of intercommunals, but I want to speak for all the municipalists who consider that, beyond a few cases of this kind, which may be detrimental to the image of the sector, in general, in their very existence, intercommunals are only the extension of local authorities, the extension of the communes. Also, I do not understand why you insist on treating communes and intercommunals differently. This is a phenomenon of inequity, under which the mechanism you propose gives the impression of pursuing a purely ideological goal. In doing so, you will harm sectors that have no other ambition than to provide basic goods and services. We have talked about electricity, and we can make the link with the debate on the tax shift: the increase in VAT on electricity is part of the same dynamic as the desire to tax companies in sectors that provide essential services and goods, which simply participate in the general interests of the municipalities, whether they assume them directly or through these intercommunals. How can it be reasonably argued that the water distribution sector must be subject to taxation? In the first version of your amendments, Mr. Minister, you considered simply exempting this sector from water. You have issued a communiqué in this regard. These are the elements that were used by members of the majority to explain that there was a genuine willingness to take into account the fears of the municipalists. Finally, you have turned back, so that we find ourselves with a totally unsatisfactory device, which gives rise to many appeals. I have good reason to believe that these appeals will certainly succeed. The reality of the services rendered to the public will catch up with you and will sooner or later force you to abandon a purely ideological approach. Minister, on the whole text, I can consider that the glass is half full or half empty. In any case, as regards the diamond tax and the taxation of intercommunals, we consider that even if this glass is half full, it is not drinkable.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip071x.u121	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have sought a word to characterize the programme law which would give an overview of it. This law is the legalization of fraud on all floors. The first floor consists of the tax shelter for start-ups. We remember the tax shelter for cinema which had given rise to quite incredible abuses at the expense of the audio-visual world and to the benefit of a few unscrupulous speculators.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip071x.u122	Mr. Van Hees, you're saying anything! Everyone agrees that the tax shelter system for cinema has been a considerable step forward. The tax shelter has never been put in place to combat but to strengthen and assist current forms of subsidy. If there is a very developed Flemish and French cinema, it is thanks to this tax. The whole sector and the filmmakers recognize it. Ideologically, you are a thousand miles from what is happening in this complex sector. You have to take off your glasses and really look at things in front of you! Do you want to kneel the cultural sector? Do you want to control parliamentarians? What do you want to do, Mr. Van Hees? It's becoming a limit!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip071x.u123	Mr Miller, I do not think this is the debate, but I will answer you on two points. Firstly, we obviously do not have the same interlocutors in the audiovisual world. Personally, I have had discussions with film producers who tell me that investors' money is coming but that most of this money is going back into their pockets. Secondly, you will not deny that there has been a scandal. We even had to review the law. I wonder why if there was no abuse.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip071x.u124	Mr President, there have indeed been abuses here and there. For the rest, what Mr. Miller says is correct. This is really the sector that was claiming the tax shelter. For negotiating with him for years, I know. The tax shelter has been seen as a great victory for culture and the audiovisual sector. So let us not confuse the fight against abuses – of course there have been – with the principle that is necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip071x.u125	Mrs Onkelinx, again, we do not have the same interlocutors in this sector. Tax shelter in cinema, abuse and, almost logically, it becomes a model for this government with a new tax shelter system that introduces a floppy of conditions. I'd say it's kind of like a tax niche with lots of doors and windows open to abuse. We're not going to name them all. They were cited in committee. And there are probably many more that we're going to discover in the future. One could mention the cross holdings where two relatives agree to invest in the other's company and vice versa, which allows for a deduction on both sides. We're not going to get into the technical questions here. Simply put, what bothers me in this area is the response of Minister Van Overtveld, who says, "I will ask the administration to be vigilant." I have two thoughts about this. On the one hand, it's a little weird to set fire and then ask the firefighters to put out that fire. On the other hand, you want to use these firefighters, these tax controllers, even though there is a deliberate policy of reducing the number of public services, particularly the tax. It didn't start with this government. I therefore wonder how these tax inspectors will be able to extinguish the fire that the government lights because they are really understaffed. In real firefighters, too, there is also a staffing problem. The second floor of this legalization of fraud on all floors is the Cayman tax. It starts from a supposed fight against tax structures installed in tax havens but, if you scratch a bit, you realize that no tax will be applied in Belgium if a foreign tax of up to 15% is applied abroad, but with Belgian tax conditions. It is quite incredible to apply Belgian taxation at a foreign tax rate. One wonders how this can be possible. As far as I am concerned, I can only consider this as a form of amnesty, especially if, as the minister has said, we know who will decide, who will analyse the concrete cases. In fact, it is written black and white in the explanatory memorandum that it is the ruling, the Advance Rulings Service, that can be seized to deal with this kind of issue. We know that the Belgian ruling does not fully correspond to the Luxembourg ruling, but we know the drifts of the latter. One can have the greatest fears about the application of the Cayman tax through the ruling. One may still have to know a new LuxLeaks or a new BelgoLeaks, following the application of this tax, which is presented as a miraculous solution in the fight against tax havens.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip071x.u126	Mr President, I would like to return to the LuxLeaks. Mr Minister, could you finally tell us whether the Luxembourg foundations will be included in the list of offshore structures that will be covered by the transparency tax? Indeed, at this stage, Minister, you have still not answered this question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip071x.u127	Sir, I will answer your question later.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip071x.u128	In that case, I am continuing my intervention. This Cayman tax does not apply to companies. In doing so, there is a problem as front companies can be created. There is also the issue of the taxation of capital that generates the income that is at issue. Designing how we're going to tax the revenue generated by these structures is one thing. But if income is generated, there is capital. If this capital is in structures, tax havens, there is a great chance that it will be landed in an unorthodox way. Will this capital be taxed? How? This is the global issue of transparency and, if I may say so, the transparency tax that will be applied to the overall situation of these tax structures. It is worrying that the explanatory memorandum refers to cases where there are indications of fraud. In other words, the government's view is that normally there is no fraud, but in some cases there may be fraud. However, I have the impression that when such structures are created, it is rather with fraudulent intent. How to use the data that the tax authorities will collect? The minister tells us that this is an administrative task. As if it was not her problem when he took over Mrs Sleur's powers in the fight against tax fraud.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip071x.u129	I have heard the comments of the traditional opposition, but Mr. Van Hees has a special personality, as Mr Miller has just pointed out! Before, there was nothing. Now we have the Cayman tax that fights against these devices. You should be happy! You've been critical for weeks. Now that we have introduced a tax, you continue to criticize!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip071x.u130	It is not said that this is not a good thing in itself, you are told that this tax is imperfect. It is part of our work to propose to you to improve the device.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip071x.u131	I'd like to nuance. I think that this device can be more dangerous than beneficial, given the doors open to abuse, and that most of the contentious cases will be ruled out. Many of us believe that the ruling does not treat tax cases fairly, does not respect the Constitution, which provides that there is no tax privilege. Indeed, it is known that those who have their entry into the ruling are given favourable opinions by the administration.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip071x.u132	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip071x.u133	I take my word, Mr. Piedboeuf! On the third floor of this legalization of fraud is the Diamant tax. I'll surprise you, but I'm not really for that Diamond tax. I would like to point out that the diamond sector is not an area like any other: 70% of SwissLeaks files are related to the diamond sector. What is quite surprising is the double speech of the majority. With the "pile" discourse, the Diamond tax charges the sector twice as much as before, while the "face" discourse claims that it takes the Diamond tax to help this sector face international competition. I want to hear the version pile or the version face but pile and face at the same time, it is not possible! There is such a gap between these two discourses that one or the other must be chosen, but the majority refuses to choose. I analyse what the majority says and the situation in our country and the diamond sector to say that the coin will fall on the face: we help the sector. It is the latter who asks for this tax and no one can deny it in this assembly. It is the sector which is asking for this tax and which is very happy to have obtained it. The Diamant tax is a flat-rate tax; the taxable basis is defined as 0.55% of turnover. What are the criteria that led to this 0.55% rate? I asked the minister in committee a number of times. He answered me, but not how that percentage was defined. Minister, you gave me several criteria for comparison. You told me it was twice the ratio declared in the diamond sector. You compared with the wholesalers in the other sectors where we took the median between the first quartile and the second quartile... Why was this rate chosen? We never got an answer to that question. We are tabling an amendment which proposes to consider all the diamond companies controlled in recent years, to look at their real ratio and not what they have said. Excuse me, but we may have doubts about the veracity of the figures reported by diamond companies. Consider those that have been checked, subject to correction, for which the taxable benefit has been increased tenfold. The Council of State also has serious reservations about this Diamant tax, since it considers that this could be State aid according to the European Union criteria. Generally speaking, the European Union is the Gospel! But here, apparently, the Gospel has less impact than usual and we do not expect the opinion of the European Commission to have this law passed. Finally, when we compare this Diamant tax with what we do in relation to the unemployed... We are ready to mobilise investigating judges for home visits among the unemployed, and in terms of diamonds, we meet the demands of the sector. That's pretty amazing! There is a fourth floor, in some way the bonus of this legalization of fraud. This is not in this law, it is in the picture given by the government yesterday; it is the new DLU quater. From 2017, there are 250 million euros in admissions thanks to a DLU quater. It's a new amnesty. I thought DLU's "U" meant "unique." But it's still the fourth edition. I think, I have always considered – and the more DLU, the more I think – that these amnesties, especially repeatedly, are an incentive to fraud. You actually have a small entry of 250 million that you can indicate for 2017. It's the visible entrance. But there is the invisible exit much more important, it is the incitement to fraud. You tell the fraudsters that they can always cheat since they will always be amnestied one day or the other. I persist in saying that it is the government of fraudsters. But the government, on the other hand, persists in giving me reason. I will add two annexes to these different floors. I'll start with the bank tax. Having heard everyone talk about it, I still recall that this is not a bank tax, but a reduction in a tax gift. This is quite logical because the banks have caused a huge financial crisis, following which they have been forced to increase their own funds. It would be quite incredible if they could, moreover, obtain tax deductions. Mr. Minister, I am concerned about the moderation of this contribution on the grounds that a certain rate of profit should be maintained in the sector. I'm afraid you didn't learn all the lessons from the 2008 crisis. Indeed, the main lesson to be drawn from this is that it is precisely because of this profit hunt that we have plunged into this serious crisis, the consequences of which we are still paying today. I shall conclude with a point which has been mentioned very little: the exemption from professional prepayment. This program law invents a tenth such case. Without going into the details of the measure, I just want to draw your attention to its overall logic. Here is the evolution in numerical terms. In 2005, there were three or four types of professional discount exemptions. We were 198 million euros in loss of profits for state funds. In 2012, the latest figures available in the annex to the state budget, we are at 2.8 billion. It can be said that he is the little brother of notional interests, but who is growing ever more. This is 14 times more than in 2005.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip071x.u134	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip071x.u135	But yes, that's true. Mr. Minister will confirm later. It's obvious. That is the amount, but we must also talk about the principle of professional discount exemptions. When I explain this to people, they don't believe me! That's the reality! I wanted to ask you a little favor. I'd like you to go down the street to explain to the worker what professional discount exemptions are. So you'll tell him, "There's your boss holding up part of your salary to give it to the tax office, but he's keeping part for him." You'll see if he believes you or not! You will see if he believes that such deductions are possible in Belgium or not. I bet he won't believe you!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip071x.u136	If you tell him the story like that, he obviously won't believe you! I'm happy because you just confirmed that notional interests cost $2 billion. In the election campaign, it was $6 billion!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip071x.u137	You still have to listen to me. I said he was the little brother, but he keeps growing up. Who knows, with the drop in rates, which causes notional interest to decrease, and the increase in professional discount exemptions, perhaps one day the little brother will exceed the big one! That's what I said. Mr Piedboeuf, is it not fair when I say that it is the boss who takes part of his worker's tax to pay it to the tax and who keeps part for him? I'd like to hear your opinion.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip071x.u138	Does the worker have to declare that he paid less than what he paid in his tax card and in his tax return?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip071x.u139	No.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip071x.u140	So it is not the worker's money that is taken for business, but it is the state that decides to allocate part of that revenue. You don't explain well and everyone understands poorly.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip071x.u141	This is the worker's money. It's real.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip071x.u142	I confirm that you have set the cost of notional interest at two billion. That is, a third of what you said in the election campaign.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip071x.u143	Mr President, I would like to ask for clarification on a specific subject. Following Mr Nollet's speech on the entire document, the criticisms and comments that have been made on behalf of Ecolo-Groen, I would like to focus on a specific point of the proposed tax shelter for SMEs. On reading the proposed measures, I would like to make sure that an entrepreneurial sector such as citizen co-operatives is not forgotten. This sector is dear to the Ecolo-Groen Group. These cooperatives are structures which, through shares of co-operators, launch citizen projects, whether in the field of energy or local production, in the reassignment of neighbourhoods or places of life. These structures could, in the light of the tax shelter SME text, be associated with investment funds and structures and thus de facto be excluded from the system as a whole. It would be a real missed opportunity. I wanted to draw your attention to this and ask you to provide a mechanism to include them. I don't think you thought about it. You are planning other measures such as Starter funds (with FSMA) or crowdfunding platforms. It would be good if you planned a specific mechanism that could include these co-operatives. We will be careful because it would be a shame to exclude this growing entrepreneurial sector that creates local employment. Obviously, on behalf of Ecolo-Groen, he would like to be fully associated with the tax shelter measures in favour of SMEs.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip071x.u144	There are no more speakers, the government has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip071x.u145	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the programme law before us contains important elements which will enable us to reduce the burden on labour. That is what it is important for us all to do. The programme law contains measures such as the banking tax, the browsing tax and the diamond system. They are all measures that increase fiscal justice. Banks, foreign constructions and the diamond sector will make more tax contributions. In this way, we can reduce taxes for citizens and businesses. In this way, step by step, we reduce the burden on labour and make work more attractive. In addition, this programme law also includes a number of incentives for start-ups, such as the tax shelter for start-ups and the reduction of wage costs for start-ups. I will now turn to the various parts of the programme law and, of course, I will start with the browsing load. The foreign legal constructions that this caiman tax draws on have already been referred to by Mr Van Biesen in a very pertinent manner earlier are strictly legal. In the case of illegal, fraudulent situations, we have instruments other than the caiman tax to deal with them properly. With the caiman tax, the government wants to give a clear signal that we expect everyone to contribute to the development of more fiscal justice. The legal arrangements set up from Belgium in foreign tax havens will now contribute to the Belgian state treasury according to Belgian standards. There was a lot of scepticism from some angles at first. Do you think that tax will come? Do you think he's strong enough and solid enough? I can only see today that this caiman indeed has teeth. In addition to teeth, this caiman also has a legal basis to pass the test of EU law and the double taxation treaties concluded by Belgium. Lessons were learned from an earlier bill, which was submitted not so long ago. What was good, of the administrative preparation in this area, was also retained. What could have been better, we've adapted. Especially, the caiman tax got stricter. While the old bill provided only for a fictional ownership of assets and building rights, this bill goes further by introducing a transparency tax with all the related effects. This has certain advantages in order to avoid escape from tax, apart from legal transactions which carry out a legal construction or a possible change in form, for example. A second novelty in the design of the caiman tax is the raising of the border within which legal persons are considered as legal structures. The government raises that limit to 15%, whereas it used to be 10%. In calculating the percentage of 15%, a taxable basis is established on the basis of Belgian standards. Why is that being done? The viewing tax acts against those who wanted to avoid Belgium by resorting to more favourable foreign structures. The Belgian general rules are therefore the right touchstone for that assessment. Of course, the calculation also starts from a specific basis. One cannot rely solely on the revenue actually received and completely ignore all the economically sound tax rules. It is also logical to have to apply the deduction rules for the calculation of 15% fictitiously. That is no problem. In Belgium, favourable schemes or deduction rules are in fact modulated sufficiently strict or apply only to specific economic activities. The legal constructions covered by the Cayman tax are de facto irrelevant in this respect. Taking Belgian rules and deductions into account allows the transparency tax not to miss its target. The new 15% rule introduced by this project provides a fair and correct basis of control to qualify legal constructions, taking into account the objective of the transparency tax. The draft also aims to ensure effective taxation of income, while ensuring that double taxation is avoided as far as possible and that income is taxed as far as possible by the effective purchasers. Finally, this Cayman tax also takes sufficient account of European law, in particular the important case law that has already been made in similar review arrangements. In the EU context, proof of an effective economic activity must be provided in order to avoid being subject to a viewing tax. Since the viewing tax is an anti-abuse rule, it is logical that it does not apply to entities carrying out real economic activities. The possibility of such proof is explicitly laid down in this draft law. The viewing tax is therefore a legally well-founded measure, specifically aimed at tax avoidance through certain legal arrangements. The measure is strictly applicable, but at the same time it does not miss its objective and can also withstand the confrontation with European law and the double taxation treaties. Of course, the caiman tax is a new instrument. This means, by definition, that a learning process must be completed. Are we going to re-adjust the Cayman tax tomorrow? No. Are we going to take that learning process seriously? Yes. Of course, there is always the possibility to refine that instrument further. In fact, we have entered 260 million in the tax shift for the Cayman tax, on top of the amount entered in the budget. I would remind you that in its calculations of the potential yield of the Cayman tax, the FPS Finance has put 460 million forward on an annual basis, and at that time it was unable to calculate the impact of such constructions in the United States, Switzerland and Luxembourg for methodological reasons. I am convinced that the government, with the amounts it subscribes, behaves in a very responsible manner in dealing with possible revenues from this tax. The diamond system, the second big hatch, essentially does two things. First of all, it ensures that the sector is more specific to registered traders, since it is not about the whole diamond sector that will contribute substantially more than what is currently the case. The sector will contribute an additional EUR 50 million per year by means of a sales tax. At present, income from corporate taxes from this segment of the diamond sector represents on average around 20 million euros per year. So there will be at least 50 million on top of that. For decades, it has been shown that the sector is very difficult to grasp, for example through stock and valuation discussions. We can ignore that fact, we can even accept it, but this government has chosen to do something about it effectively. Through the diamond system, the proceeds will thus amount to 70 to 75 million euros per year. I would like to stress once again that normal income tax continues to apply in relation to income that does not come from the diamond trade. Secondly, the aspect of legal certainty. The diamond system does indeed give the sector greater legal certainty. There is more clarity, both for the sector and for the tax authorities. This is an important fact for every economic agent, including in the diamond sector. We can be lighthearted about it, but let us not forget that we are still dealing with thirty thousand jobs and 5% of our exports. With regard to those who oppose this rule and call it a favour, I would like to say the following. Approved diamond companies which have in the past updated their stock against the payment of a contribution of 4.5% are currently liable for an additional contribution of 10%, in case of non-compliance with the condition of unavailability imposed in this respect. These contributions are not deductible for professional expenses. This scheme was introduced by the 2006 Act. So it is certainly not the first time that a government has taken a measure that only applies to the diamond sector. As far as VAT is concerned, at the risk of being a little technical, I would remind you that the VAT Code exempts from tax, since 1971, "the deliveries of fine pearls and stones, gems and the like made to persons who are exclusively traders in these goods and the inter-Community imports and acquisitions of these goods made by those traders. (....) the provision of services in respect of such goods provided to the same persons." In establishing this exemption scheme, the legislator wanted to avoid a large tax credit to the traders concerned, knowing that if the transactions were subject to the tax, the tax would be deductible. In addition, diamond sales by such traders are most often carried out abroad because they are exempt from VAT in the case of intra-Community exports or deliveries. In these circumstances, periodic VAT returns from such traders could give rise, without special arrangements, to a systematic VAT credit which will be subject to refund. It is therefore apparent that governments and parties were still faced with the specific sector of the diamond and that they were trying to provide a response through all kinds of specific measures or exceptional measures. Besides the cayman tax and the diamond system there is the bank tax. Here too, the very simple but socially highly defendable logic of fiscal justice applies. During the financial crisis, the government contributed to avoid, inter alia, the collapse of credit institutions through capital injections and capital guarantees. This was necessary to safeguard confidence in the financial sector and to prevent credit to companies from getting into trouble or stopping, with all the consequences of this, including in terms of jobs. We therefore believe that it is only fair that the sector should now also contribute to the reduction of labour costs that this government is implementing. The contribution of the financial sector, the so-called banking tax, will amount to 100 million euros in structural terms, starting in 2015. There is 75 million from the banking sector and 25 million from the insurance sector. The proposal adopted by the government respects the balance between the banking sector and the insurance sector and between large and small banks. This time, large financial institutions contribute more sensitively. The Government is well aware that the profitability of credit institutions and insurance companies will be put under pressure in the coming years, due to factors such as low interest margins, the increasing role of capital markets in corporate financing and the impact of the strictest capital requirements. This context means that we are gradually reaching the limit on the overall tax burden for these institutions. Some of us, when I put forward such a statement, do not forget that a sound financial sector is of great importance. I would almost say that it is essential to create a sound economy. I come to corporate tax and the intercommunals. I'll start with the objective. It is very simple, very clear, very transparent, very defendable: fair, loyal tax competition between the private sector and the public sector. This objective is based on what is stated in the government agreement and therefore results in the subject matter of intercommunals exercising commercial activities to corporate tax. The government includes some adjustments in the new programme law to meet the aspirations of local authorities. For example, reserves accumulated under the corporation tax will also be paid to shareholders free of corporation tax by means of a change of law. An appropriate response shall also be given to the issues related to the provisions for risk derivatives and costs relating to revaluation capital gains and capital gains not yet realised or expressed. In this way, the programme law of December 2014, the past of the intercommunals, will not be subject to corporation tax. Hospitals and care institutions which exist in the form of an intercommunal are exempted. By opening the tax system for legal persons in relation to hospitals and other care facilities, particularly for the less able and the elderly in the form of an intercommunal, the government wants to treat these institutions on the same footing as private sector institutions. It is the purpose of the activity that is taken into account, the absence of any commercial character rather than simply the legal form. In this way, the government achieves the creation of a loyal competition between the private sector and the public sector included in the coalition agreement. I come to another element, the stimuli for starters. If we want to ensure that, after a period of crisis and economic uncertainty, enough entrepreneurs and businesses are ready to start, to engage in activities and to create jobs, then we have to give them a boost. In order to remain competitive, we need to align our instruments to attract specific types of companies and international companies with developments in neighbouring countries and in the rest of Europe. This government does so with a number of incentives for start-ups. The programme law contains a number of fiscal measures to increase the oxygen content of small and start-ups and to eliminate the funding gap. These measures concern measures for SMEs and micro-enterprises. To qualify, an SME should not exceed more than one of the following criteria: annual average of staff 50, annual turnover 7.3 million, balance sheet total 3.65 million euro. As regards the start-up tax shelter, a tax reduction of 30% provides for the personal income tax for the natural persons investing in an SME by acquiring new shares to be issued. For investments in micro-enterprises, the tax reduction is 45%. Payments for the acquisition of new shares or units in an approved start-up fund shall be eligible for the tax relief up to EUR 100 000 per taxable period. There is a large number of additional conditions that have been discussed in committee to prevent abuse or carousels. I will not go into these various conditions in more detail. As far as cooperative societies are concerned, I see no reason why they should not be able to enjoy what is proposed. The only condition that is required is that they meet the conditions. If they do not meet the conditions, unfortunately they cannot enjoy the benefits. I come to the exemption from the transfer of company tax for start-ups. This measure reduces wage costs for start-ups. During the first four years, SMEs will not have to pass on 10% of the normally due corporate tax tax on their employees' wages to the tax authorities. For micro-enterprises this is 20%. This deduction is normally applied only once, particularly in the year of investment. The exemption for interest from loans to start-ups supports the financing of start-ups through crowdfunding. The granting of loans through a crowdfunding platform will be supported by tax through an exemption from withholding tax on the interest of the loans. A whole range of conditions are also attached to this in order to prevent improper use. The loan must be concluded for a minimum of four years. That's one condition. It must have been provided by a natural person acting within the normal management of his private property. She needs to get there through a crowdfunding platform. The loan may therefore not be granted directly to a start-up company. There are a number of other conditions. The deduction for digital investments is also provided for. The increased deduction for investments will be extended to investments for the security of information and communication technologies and for the digital payment and billing systems. Under the Government Agreement, the Government intends to use support for business growth, in particular for SMEs and for productive investments, by supporting and encouraging such investments. By extending the increased deduction for investments in the security of information and communication technology and digital payment or billing systems, digital investments made by SMEs can benefit from an increased deduction for the investment of their profits. Then I'll come to the liquidation reserve. During the previous legislature, the rate of withholding tax on winding-up boni was increased from 10% to 25% from 1 October 2014. This increase was accompanied by a limited transitional arrangement for reserves approved by 31 March at the latest. Later reserves would then be subject to the withholding tax of 25%. This government has clearly committed itself since its inception to undoing this increase. The programme law of December 2014 took an important step towards this through the introduction of the winding-up reserve system. Since the introduction of this system, SMEs have the possibility of creating a liquidation reserve with their profits after tax. An anticipatory levy of 10% shall be paid. In the event of subsequent liquidation, the established liquidation reserves will then be paid duty-free. By this Program Act, the Government extends the scope of application by also taking into account, as of today, the reserves for the 2013 and 2014 taxation years. As far as the tax section is concerned, this programme law deals essentially with two issues, namely reducing the burden on labour through fiscal justice and, in one move, providing business start-ups with opportunities and oxygen to join growth. In this way, we make work rewarding and enterprising attractive.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip071x.u146	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip071x.u147	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1125/20) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1125/20) The draft law contains 101 articles. The bill has 101 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip071x.u148	• 4 - Marco Van Hees cs (1125/15)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip071x.u149	• 49 - Jean-Marc Nollet cs (1125/16)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip071x.u150	• 2 - Marco Van Hees cs (1125/15) • 50 - Jean-Marc Nollet cs (1125/16)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip071x.u151	• 26 - Stéphane Crusnière cs (1125/15)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip071x.u152	Mr President, you are taking the time to read all the amendments, but we have all received them in a package. I would like to thank the services for that. Could we not win a few minutes by going directly to the votes? We have received the amendments in order. I was able to check it out. It is very nice of the services to have given them to us. But I wanted to check with you if it is necessary for you to read them.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip071x.u153	That's very nice of you. I am pleased not to have to read these amendments, but I must ask whether everyone is satisfied with them and whether there are any comments to be made on the amendments as they are known to you? [[Assent]] Then we consider the amendments to be well-known. It's true. Amendments have therefore been read out or have not been read out. • 47 - Benoît Dispa (1125/15)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip071x.u154	• 10 - Peter Vanvelthoven (1125/15) • 7 - Peter Vanvelthoven cs (1125/15)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip071x.u155	• 10 - Peter Vanvelthoven (1125/15) • 3 - Marco Van Hees cs (1125/15)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip071x.u156	• 41 - Stéphane Crusnière cs (1125/15)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip071x.u157	• 43 - Stéphane Crusnière cs (1125/15)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip071x.u158	Annex V.Part 2.124 (b) 100/1(n) • 13 - Peter Vanvelthoven (1125/15) Chapter 7 (n) /Chapitre 7 (n) • 14 - Peter Vanvelthoven (1125/15) Annex V.Part 2.124 (b) 100/2(n) • 15 - Peter Vanvelthoven (1125/15) Annex V.Part 2.124 (b) 100/3(n) • 16 - Peter Vanvelthoven (1125/15) Annex V.Part 2.124 (b) 100/4(n) • 17 - Peter Vanvelthoven (1125/15) Annex V.Part 2.124 (b) 100/5(n) • 18 - Peter Vanvelthoven (1125/15) Annex V.Part 2.124 (b) 100/6(n) • 19 - Peter Vanvelthoven (1125/15) Annex V.Part 2.124 (b) 100/7(n) • 22 - Peter Vanvelthoven (1125/15) Annex V.Part 2.124 (b) 100/8(n) • 23 - Peter Vanvelthoven (1125/15) ****** The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and articles that have been tabled and on the whole will take place later. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and the reserved articles as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. ****** Decision of the article-by-article discussion:
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip071x.u159	Held: the vote on the amendments and Articles 2, 3, 38, 39, 44, 48, 67 to 72, 86. Article adopted by article: Articles 1, 4 to 37, 43, 45 to 47, 49 to 66, 73 to 85, 87 to 101.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip071x.u160	******
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip071x.u161	The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. If there is no objection, I shall consider it adopted; in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be sent to the committees responsible. If there are no comments on this subject, I will take it into account as a matter of fact and refer the proposals back to the relevant committees in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 22 July 2015, I also propose that you consider: - the legislative proposal (Mrs Muriel Gerkens and Mr Anne Dedry, Mr Benoit Hellings, Mr Wouter De Vriendt and Mr Georges Gilkinet, Mrs Meyrem Almaci and Mr Kristof Calvo, Mr Stefaan Van Hecke, Mr Gilles Vanden Burre and Mr Jean-Marc Nollet) amending the law of 24 January 1977 on the protection of the health of users of foodstuffs and other products, prohibiting the marketing or marketing of and the production of containers intended for foodstuffs containing bisphenol A or S, No. 1228/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip071x.u162	- the motion for a resolution (Mr Veli Yüksel, Mrs Nahima Lanjri and Mr Roel Deseyn and Mr Jef Van den Bergh) on the diversity policy of the SNCB group, No. 1276/1; - the motion for a resolution (Mr Veli Yüksel, Mrs Nahima Lanjri and Mr Roel Deseyn and Mr Jef Van den Bergh) on the quality of postal services, No. 1277/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip071x.u163	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 22 July 2015, I also propose that you take into account: - the bill (Ms. Muriel Gerkens and Anne Dedry, MM. Benoit Hellings, Wouter De Vriendt and Georges Gilkinet, Meyrem Almaci and MM. Kristof Calvo, Stefaan Van Hecke, Gilles Vanden Burre and Jean-Marc Nollet) amending the Law of 24 January 1977 on the protection of the health of consumers with regard to foodstuffs and other products and prohibiting the trade in or placing on the market and manufacture of food containers containing bisphenol A or S, No 1228/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip071x.u164	- the motion for a resolution (Mr Veli Yüksel, Mrs Nahima Lanjri and Mr MM. Roel Deseyn and Jef Van den Bergh) on diversity policy in the SNCB Group, No 1276/1; - the motion for a resolution (Mr Veli Yüksel, Mrs Nahima Lanjri and Mr MM. Roel Deseyn and Jef Van den Bergh) on the quality of postal services, No 1277/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip071x.u165	Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip071x.u166	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 103 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 21 Abstensions Total 124 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft. (1241/7) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a draft for Royal Assent. (1241/7) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip071x.u167	Vote on Amendment No 4 by Marco Van Hees cs on article 2. (1125/15) Vote on Amendment No 4 by Marco Van Hees cs to Article 2. (1125/15) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 2) Yes [[27]] Yes No. [[80]] No Abstentions 19 Abstensions Total 126 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 2 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 2 was adopted. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 5 by Marco Van Hees cs on article 3. (1125/15) Vote on Amendment No 5 by Marco Van Hees cs to Article 3. (1125/15) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 3) Yes [[26]] Yes No. 82 No Abstentions 17 Abstensions Total 125 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 3 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 3 was adopted. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Mr Crusnière voted in favour. Vote on Amendment No 20 by Peter Vanvelthoven to insert an article 34/1(n). (1125/15) Vote on Amendment No 20 by Peter Vanvelthoven to insert an Article 34/1(n). (1125/15) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes [[16]] Yes No. 82 No Abstentions 28 Abstensions Total 126 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 21 by Peter Vanvelthoven to insert an article 34/2(n). (1125/15) Vote on Amendment No 21 by Peter Vanvelthoven to insert an Article 34/2(n). (1125/15) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the vote previous is valid for this one?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip071x.u168	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 8 by Ahmed Laaouej cs on Article 38. (1125/15) Vote on Amendment No 8 of Ahmed Laaouej cs to Article 38. (1125/15) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 5) Yes [[43]] Yes No. 79 No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 125 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 49 by Jean-Marc Nollet cs on Article 38. (1125/16) Vote on Amendment No 49 by Jean-Marc Nollet cs to Article 38. (1125/16) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 6) Yes 33 Yes No. [[80]] No Abstentions 11 Abstensions Total 124 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Mr Di Rupo and Mr Frédéric voted in favour. Vote on Amendment No 9 by Georges Gilkinet cs on article 38. (1125/15) Vote on Amendment No 9 by Georges Gilkinet cs to Article 38. (1125/15) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 7) Yes
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip071x.u169	Yes No. [[80]] No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 126 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 11 by Peter Vanvelthoven on Article 38. (1125/15) Vote on Amendment No 11 by Peter Vanvelthoven to Article 38. (1125/15) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 8) Yes [[43]] Yes No. [[80]] No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 126 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 38 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 38 was adopted. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 25 by Ahmed Laaouej cs on Article 39. (1125/15) Vote on Amendment No 25 by Ahmed Laaouej cs to Rule 39. (1125/15) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 9) Yes [[43]] Yes No. [[80]] No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 126 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 2 by Marco Van Hees cs on article 39. (1125/15) Vote on Amendment No 2 by Marco Van Hees cs to Rule 39. (1125/15) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 10) Yes [[35]] Yes No. [[80]] No Abstentions 10 Abstensions Total 125 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Mr Delpérée abstained. Vote on Amendment No 50 by Jean-Marc Nollet cs on article 39. (1125/16) Vote on Amendment No 50 by Jean-Marc Nollet cs to Rule 39. (1125/16) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 11) Yes [[43]] Yes No. [[80]] No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 126 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 24 by Ahmed Laaouej cs on Article 39. (1125/15) Vote on Amendment No 24 by Ahmed Laaouej cs to Rule 39. (1125/15) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 12) Yes [[43]] Yes No. [[80]] No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 126 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 51 by Jean-Marc Nollet cs on Article 39. (1125/16) Vote on Amendment No 51 by Jean-Marc Nollet cs to Rule 39. (1125/16) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip071x.u170	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 39 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 39 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 52 by Jean-Marc Nollet cs on Article 44. (1125/16) Vote on Amendment No 52 by Jean-Marc Nollet cs to Rule 44. (1125/16) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip071x.u171	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 44 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 44 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 1 by Marco Van Hees cs to insert an article 46/1(n). (1125/15) Vote on Amendment No 1 by Marco Van Hees cs to insert a Rule 46/1(n). (1125/15) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 13) Yes [[27]] Yes No. 87 No Abstentions 11 Abstensions Total 125 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]] Vote on Amendment No 26 by Stéphane Crusnière cs to Rule 48. (1125/15) Vote on Amendment No 26 by Stéphane Crusnière cs on Article 48. (1125/15) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes [[43]] Yes No. [[80]] No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 126 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]] Vote on Amendment No 27 by Stéphane Crusnière cs to Rule 48. (1125/15) Vote on Amendment No 27 by Stéphane Crusnière cs on Article 48. (1125/15) Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip071x.u172	Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on amendment No 47 by Benoît Dispa to Rule 48. (1125/15) Vote on Amendment No 47 by Benoît Dispa to Article 48. (1125/15) Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip071x.u173	Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 28 by Stéphane Crusnière cs to Article 48. (1125/15) Vote on Amendment No 28 by Stéphane Crusnière cs on Article 48. (1125/15) Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip071x.u174	Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 29 by Stéphane Crusnière cs to Rule 48. (1125/15) Stemming over amendment nr. 29 van Stéphane Crusnière cs op artikel 48. (1125/15) Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip071x.u175	Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 32 by Stéphane Crusnière cs to Rule 48. (1125/15) Vote on Amendment No 32 by Stéphane Crusnière cs on Article 48. (1125/15) Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip071x.u176	Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 33 by Stéphane Crusnière cs to Rule 48. (1125/15) Vote on Amendment No 33 by Stéphane Crusnière cs on Article 48. (1125/15) Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip071x.u177	Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 30 by Stéphane Crusnière cs to Rule 48. (1125/15) Vote on Amendment No 30 by Stéphane Crusnière cs on Article 48. (1125/15) Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip071x.u178	Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 31 by Stéphane Crusnière cs to Rule 48. (1125/15) Vote on Amendment No 31 by Stéphane Crusnière cs on Article 48. (1125/15) Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip071x.u179	Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 34 by Stéphane Crusnière cs to Rule 48. (1125/15) Vote on Amendment No 34 by Stéphane Crusnière cs on Article 48. (1125/15) Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip071x.u180	Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 35 by Stéphane Crusnière cs to Rule 48. (1125/15) Stemming over amendment nr. 35 van Stéphane Crusnière cs op artikel 48. (1125/15) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 15) Yes [[37]] Yes No. [[80]] No Abstentions 9 Abstensions Total 126 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 48 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 48 was adopted. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? Vote on Amendment No 36 by Stéphane Crusnière cs to insert an Article 66/1(n). (1125/15) Vote on Amendment No 36 by Stéphane Crusnière cs to insert an article 66/1(n). (1125/15) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 16) Yes [[45]] Yes No. [[80]] No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 126 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? Vote on Amendment No 38 by Stéphane Crusnière cs to insert an Article 66/3(n). (1125/15) Vote on Amendment No 38 by Stéphane Crusnière cs to insert an article 66/3(n). (1125/15) Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? May the results of the previous s This vote is also valid for this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip071x.u181	Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 39 by Stéphane Crusnière cs to insert an Article 66/4(n). (1125/15) Vote on Amendment No 39 by Stéphane Crusnière cs to insert an article 66/4(n). (1125/15) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 17) Yes [[35]] Yes No. [[80]] No Abstentions 11 Abstensions Total 126 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? Vote on Amendment No 40 by Stéphane Crusnière cs to insert an Article 66/5(n). (1125/15) Vote on Amendment No 40 by Stéphane Crusnière cs to insert an article 66/5(n). (1125/15) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 18) Yes [[45]] Yes No. [[80]] No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 125 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 37 by Stéphane Crusnière cs to insert an Article 66/2(n). (1125/15) Vote on Amendment No 37 by Stéphane Crusnière cs to insert an article 66/2(n). (1125/15) Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip071x.u182	Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 10 by Peter Vanvelthoven to omit Articles 67 to 72. (1125/15) Vote on Amendment No 10 by Peter Vanvelthoven to delete Articles 67 to 72. (1125/15) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 19) Yes [[45]] Yes No. [[80]] No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 126 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 67 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 67 was adopted. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 7 by Peter Vanvelthoven cs on article 68. (1125/15) Vote on Amendment No 7 by Peter Vanvelthoven cs to Rule 68. (1125/15) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 20) Yes [[43]] Yes No. 79 No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 125 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 68 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 68 was adopted. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Mr Döh Haese voted against. Rule 69 has been adopted. Article 69 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 3 by Marco Van Hees cs on article 70. (1125/15) Vote on Amendment No 3 to Rule 70 by Marco Van Hees cs. (1125/15) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 21) Yes 2............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Yes No. 105 No Abstentions 19 Abstensions Total 126 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 70 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 70 was adopted. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 12 by Peter Vanvelthoven on Article 71. (1125/15) Vote on Amendment No 12 by Peter Vanvelthoven to Rule 71. (1125/15) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 22) Yes [[45]] Yes No. [[80]] No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 126 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 53 by Jean-Marc Nollet cs on Article 71. (1125/16) Vote on Amendment No 53 by Jean-Marc Nollet cs to Rule 71. (1125/16) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 23) Yes [[26]] Yes No. 97 No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 126 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 71 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 71 was adopted. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Rule 72 has been adopted. Article 72 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 46 by Stéphane Crusnière cs to insert an Article 74/1(n). (1125/15) Vote on Amendment No 46 by Stéphane Crusnière cs to insert an article 74/1(n). (1125/15)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip071x.u183	Mr President, as soon as another amendment has been tabled, with the signature, of course, of almost all the opposition groups but also of groups of the majority, having the same object and scope, we shall withdraw this amendment.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip071x.u184	Amendment No 46 was withdrawn. Amendment No 46 shall be repealed. Vote on Amendment No 41 by Stéphane Crusnière cs to insert an article 84/1(n). (1125/15) Vote on Amendment No 41 by Stéphane Crusnière cs to insert an Article 84/1(n). (1125/15) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 24) Yes [[45]] Yes No. [[80]] No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 126 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 42 by Stéphane Crusnière cs to insert an article 84/2(n). (1125/15) Vote on Amendment No 42 by Stéphane Crusnière cs to insert an Article 84/2(n). (1125/15) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip071x.u185	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 6 by Benoît Dispa on Article 86. (1125/15) Vote on amendment No 6 to Rule 86 by Benoît Dispa. (1125/15) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 25) Yes [[37]] Yes No. 79 No Abstentions 8 Abstensions Total 124 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Mr Calvo has abstained. Vote on Amendment No 43 by Stéphane Crusnière cs on Article 86. (1125/15) Vote on Amendment No 43 by Stéphane Crusnière cs to Rule 86. (1125/15) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 26) Yes [[46]] Yes No. [[80]] No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 126 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 86 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 86 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 44 by Stéphane Crusnière cs to insert an article 86/1(n). (1125/15) Vote on Amendment No 44 by Stéphane Crusnière cs to insert an Article 86/1(n). (1125/15) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 27) Yes 36 Yes No. [[80]] No Abstentions 11 Abstensions Total 127 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 45 by Stéphane Crusnière cs to insert an Article 86/2(n). (1125/15) Vote on Amendment No 45 by Stéphane Crusnière cs to insert an Article 86/2(n). (1125/15) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip071x.u186	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 13 by Peter Vanvelthoven to insert an Article 100/1(n). (1125/15) Vote on Amendment No 13 by Peter Vanvelthoven to insert an article 100/1(n). (1125/15) Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip071x.u187	Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 14 by Peter Vanvelthoven to insert a Chapter 7(n). (1125/15) Vote on Amendment No 14 by Peter Vanvelthoven to insert a chapter 7 (n). (1125/15) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 28) Yes [[35]] Yes No. [[80]] No Abstentions 11 Abstensions Total 126 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[)]] Vote on Amendment No 15 by Peter Vanvelthoven to insert an Article 100/2(n). (1125/15) Vote on Amendment No 15 by Peter Vanvelthoven to insert an article 100/2(n). (1125/15) Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip071x.u188	Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 16 by Peter Vanvelthoven to insert an Article 100/3(n). (1125/15) Vote on Amendment No 16 by Peter Vanvelthoven to insert an article 100/3(n). (1125/15) Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip071x.u189	Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 17 by Peter Vanvelthoven to insert an Article 100/4(n). (1125/15) Vote on Amendment No 17 by Peter Vanvelthoven to insert an article 100/4(n). (1125/15) Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip071x.u190	Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 18 by Peter Vanvelthoven to insert an Article 100/5(n). (1125/15) Vote on Amendment No 18 by Peter Vanvelthoven to insert an article 100/5(n). (1125/15) Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip071x.u191	Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 19 by Peter Vanvelthoven to insert an Article 100/6(n). (1125/15) Vote on Amendment No 19 by Peter Vanvelthoven to insert an article 100/6(n). (1125/15) Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip071x.u192	Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 22 by Peter Vanvelthoven to insert an Article 100/7(n). (1125/15) Vote on Amendment No 22 by Peter Vanvelthoven to insert an article 100/7(n). (1125/15) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 29) Yes [[27]] Yes No. 79 No Abstentions 18 Abstensions Total 124 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[)]] Vote on Amendment No 23 by Peter Vanvelthoven to insert an Article 100/8(n). (1125/15) Vote on Amendment No 23 by Peter Vanvelthoven to insert an article 100/8(n). (1125/15) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 30) Yes [[20]] Yes No. [[80]] No Abstentions 26 Abstensions Total 126 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? )
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip071x.u193	Ladies and gentlemen, with the exception of one vote, we have arrived at the end of our work for this session. Before leaving the hemisphere, I would like briefly to draw your attention to the following. After the long, intense debates of the last few weeks and this particularly intense session, we all need peace and quiet to recharge our batteries. The liveliness of our recent discussions reminds us that the House is the preferred place for debate on all issues that affect the future of the population. They were intense debates. They were good debates. Much has been said and much has been said. Over the last ten months, I have had to listen to a lot of things from this place, and that is a real compliment to which I would like to congratulate you all. I would also like to thank the Clerk and all the staff of the House, as well as the staff. [[Applause]] I must say that their skills and commitment have enabled us to conduct our work in the best possible conditions. I would also like to thank the journalists and the press for their presence and for reporting on our work. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, it was a fruitful session. After some rest, in September we will go against it again with renewed energy. At the beginning of the parliamentary year, we have a great deal of new and important work ahead of us. I wish all members of the House and their families a pleasant, revigorating and benevolent holiday. I wish this also to be done by the Ministers and the Secretary of State, as well as by their staff. I wish them a pleasant vacation too. To pour it into a final sentence, I wish you peace, health, joys of all kinds and much refreshment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip071x.u194	Ladies and gentlemen, the bell is about to ring. Holidays are now very close for those who have valiantly worked, discussed, justified, challenged, yelled or applauded. And this sometimes, until the end of the night. Notice, it has advantages to spend nights together! This makes it possible to identify parliamentarians who, after midnight, turn into dangerous Duracell batteries: more means to silence them! I had to personally invest to calm down a few ardours. Ladies and gentlemen, it has been a struggle for me! It also allows for the detection of ministers and parliamentarians who pretend to sleep, who push comedy to close their eyes but who, at the first opportunity, leap to defend their pre-square. These are the most dangerous, the claws are continually in action. To all of you, I wish you a great holiday. For lovers of hotels on the beach, please, do not imitate Mr. Hulot on vacation by multiplying bumblebees, nonsense and malfeasance! For once, I am going to be tendentious: by avoiding blunders, foolishness and malfeasance, the danger would be for members of the opposition to enjoy it while for members of the majority, they have done enough, no need to add any more! I would also like to wish the President-in-Office a pleasant vacation. He told me that he would take lessons in behavioral psychology to lead the Conference of Presidents. I do not know how he will come back to Parliament, but I am sure he will surprise us, perhaps even Mr Calvo. I would also like to thank the journalists, who, in my opinion, should be delighted not to see us anymore and not to be subjected to our verbal games. I understand them. I really wish them great holidays. On behalf of all of us, I would also like to wish the staff of the Chamber a nice holiday. On behalf of my colleagues, I would like to thank you, Madam Registrar, all the staff and all the staff, for your work, for your patience, but also for your kindness. I assure you that in these austere and difficult places, your smiles, your sympathy help us to carry out our task. Thank you all and very good holiday to all!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-24-54-plenair-ip071x.u195	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes [[80]] Yes No. [[46]] No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 126 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1125/21) Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1125/21) The meeting is adjourned. The Chamber adjourned until further convocation. The sitting is closed. The Chamber shall be divided until further notice.
