ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-plenair-ip061x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-plenair-ip061x.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, as agreed at the Conference of Presidents, I would like to ask you to table all the amendments relating to the pension scheme immediately. I shall ask for the opinion of the Council of State on this matter myself. I myself will seek the opinion of the Council of State so that the amendments can be translated immediately and sent to the Council of State. If we can act in this way, I propose that we postpone the discussion of the pension plan until we receive the opinions of the Council of State. Can anyone live with that? Mrs Onkelinx, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-plenair-ip061x.u3	Mr President, this is a very important issue for the majority, for the opposition but especially for people. It is a project that we find unfair, with inequalities and discrimination. We have a series of amendments which must not be sent to the Council of State and another series of amendments which must be sent to the Council of State. As you can see, at the level of the opposition, I think we are in sufficient numbers to demand that the debates be suspended pending the opinion of the Council of State. If you do it yourself, as we said in the Conference of Presidents, there is no problem. I therefore table the amendments as planned.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-plenair-ip061x.u4	Thank you, Mrs. Onkelinx. If other members have amendments, please place them in perch.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-plenair-ip061x.u5	Mr President, I have already handed over the amendments to the Registrar's office for submission to the Council of State. These are additional and additional amendments to the debate we have had in committee. They are based on answers or non-responses that we have obtained from the government and, in particular, from the minister. As you know, a very large proportion of Belgians are affected by this bill, including provisions which have a retroactive effect on the entry into force of this law. And it is mainly because of this latter element that we seek the opinion of the Council of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-plenair-ip061x.u6	Mr President, in the same way as other colleagues, our group has tabled amendments to do what has not been done so far, i.e. to look at the pension issue in a comprehensive manner, also taking into account working conditions and opportunities for sharing work, which is also stressed by prominent members of the working group to which the minister often refers to justifying its reform, i.e. pension experts. We were ready to request this opinion from the Council of State through the usual procedure. You do so, thus avoiding the majority from having to count. Not only do we have to work longer, as this pension project provides, but we also need to work shorter.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-plenair-ip061x.u7	Mr President, we had indeed agreed to this at the Conference of Presidents. I would like to emphasise once again that we have a package of amendments that we absolutely want to send to the Council of State. Of course, we will not discuss the content here, but we are mainly concerned with the injustice that is baked in the legal text. We would like another piece of advice on this. I would like to emphasise once again the misogynisticness of the legal text here. We await what the Council of State will say about this, especially the amendments we are tabling.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-plenair-ip061x.u8	Mr President, the PVDA has also tabled amendments and of course we are also asking for the opinion of the Council of State. There is an important social injustice in this law. We are not equal in the face of death. Some workers die before others, because of their hard work and social conditions. It is this social inequality that we want to decimate and that we have developed in our amendments. I would like to close with a more practical question, Mr President. Is there any idea of the timing of work in the coming weeks on the 67-year-old bill?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-plenair-ip061x.u9	Not exactly. Normally, if the amendments, translated into both languages, are forwarded to the Council of State this afternoon, the opinion will be expected by 17 July. But, apparently, there is a lot of work to be done in terms of translation. Therefore, if these amendments are transmitted tomorrow, we cannot hold the plenary session until 23 or 24 July. We must indeed take into account the bridge of 20 and 21 July. There is the bridge of the 21st of July. And so, opinions in one language will only be here on July 22. The opinions need to be translated and the plenary session will then be organised. If we can agree in this way, we will postpone the treatment of pension design. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 8 July 2015, I propose that the draft law amending the law of 15 December 1980 on entry into the territory, residence, establishment and removal of foreign nationals, Nos 1215/1 to 3, be entered on the agenda of this afternoon's plenary session. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 8 July 2015, I propose that you include in the agenda of this afternoon's plenary session the bill amending the Act of 15 December 1980 on the entry, residence, establishment and removal of aliens, Nos. 1215/1 to 3. Mr Konrad Degroote will report orally. Mr. Conseil Degroote fera rapport oral. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-plenair-ip061x.u10	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-plenair-ip061x.u11	Mr President, this draft law aims to increase the number of Registrars working at the Council for Foreign Affairs. This increase is necessary because the inflow has also increased, which has led to a delay in the treatment of professions. The number of magistrates has already been increased, but the workload for the Registrars has certainly not been reduced. In order to get along with the flow, to keep everyone informed in good time about his file and to be able to handle everything properly, this increase in the number of clerks is necessary. The various parties were able to express their views on this matter in committee last week. Following the statement by the Secretary of State, everyone agreed that this increase was urgent. The draft law was therefore adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-plenair-ip061x.u12	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, with this draft law, the government and the Secretary of State intend to increase from 10 to 14. The rapporteur, Mr Degroote, has rightly said that the RV has been facing an enormous influx of files in recent years since 2012. There are now an average of 26 000 professions per year. As a result, no fewer than 27 000 professions are lagging behind. As a result, the Foreign Affairs Council can no longer guarantee the necessary legal protection for foreigners and deal with the files within a reasonable period of time. This draft law seeks to remedy this and to guarantee the legal protection of the seeking foreigner. It wants to allow the Council of Foreign Ministers to remove the working stock and control the influx of new files. The government intends to comply with this by means of this bill, which aims to increase the number of clerks from 10 to 14. During the discussion in the committee, the Secretary of State stressed the intention to work with administrative catching-up cells at the Council for Foreign Affairs in order to overcome the additional cyclical slowdown. Those catching-up cells will mainly be entrusted with the processing of files through the purely written procedure; these are judgments which can actually be handled in a fairly standardised manner through a purely written procedure. The combination of these catching-up cells and the increase in the number of clerks from 10 to 14 should ensure that the backlog of staff is eliminated and that they are armed against any influx of new files. All of this is done in order to ensure sound and effective legal protection for the foreigner who appeals to the RV, so that all interested parties remain confident in this court. Mr President, as the rapporteur said, this draft law was adopted unanimously in committee. We are therefore counting on it to be no different in plenary.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-plenair-ip061x.u13	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? ) The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-plenair-ip061x.u14	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1215/3) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1215/3) The draft law has two articles. The bill has two articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-plenair-ip061x.u15	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-plenair-ip061x.u16	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur, Ms Leen Dierick, referred to the written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-plenair-ip061x.u17	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1136/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1136/1) The draft law has two articles. The bill has two articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-plenair-ip061x.u18	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-plenair-ip061x.u19	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-plenair-ip061x.u20	Mr President, I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-plenair-ip061x.u21	Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-plenair-ip061x.u22	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1151/3) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1151/3) The draft law contains 19 articles. The bill has 19 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-plenair-ip061x.u23	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-plenair-ip061x.u24	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur, Ms Nele Lijnen, referred to her written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-plenair-ip061x.u25	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1187/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1187/1) The draft law has 4 articles. The bill has four articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-plenair-ip061x.u26	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-plenair-ip061x.u27	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Jef Van den Bergh, Inez De Coninck, Peter Dedecker, Sabien Lahaye-Battheu, Roel Deseyn, Veli Yüksel, Gilles Foret.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-plenair-ip061x.u28	The text adopted by the Committee is the basis for the discussion (Rgt 85, 4) (1117/1) The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1117/1) The meeting's open. The discussion is open. The rapporteur, Mr Jean-Jacques Flahaux, referred to his written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-plenair-ip061x.u29	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, good weather is forecast again for the coming weekend. That's the ideal time for a day at the sea, or in Werchter, but there's not much to do next weekend. When you search Google for the fastest way to get to the sea, Google will tell you to take the bus. That has nothing to do with strikes. This simply has to do with the fact that SNCB still does not make its timetables available to third parties to include them in, for example, integrated mobility services. As far as strikes are concerned, there was a meeting this morning between ASTB and SNCB. Next Friday, the ASTB will answer the question of whether it will withdraw the strikes. We are very much looking forward to that. I would like to make the appeal here that strikes on Saturdays during the summer are not a good idea. Back to the topic of the day: the open dates. Open data is a concept that was incorporated by the majority in the coalition agreement as an important objective. With this proposal for a resolution, we wish to point out that this issue should be explicitly included in the management contracts of SNCB and Infrabel. Train passengers can now only use the SNCB app. Following the deletion of Railtime, the former Infrabel app, there have been many complaints about the SNCB app, which would not be sufficiently user-friendly. There is a demand from ICT developers and companies to develop their own apps that can capture train traffic. There is therefore an interest, but SNCB must make its data available for that purpose. That doesn't happen until today. The release of information to businesses, scientists and citizens stimulates innovation, entrepreneurship and the use of trains. The more train apps, the more websites, search engines and digital tools work with rail digital information, the more informed potential travellers there will be. Open data fits perfectly with the story of multimodality, using different means of transport and complementing each other. If you plan an excursion, you will immediately get an overview of the journey time by car, bike, bus or train via various search engines. At least that's how it should be. It may encourage travellers to leave the car in the garage and take the train, for example. We need to go for more innovation and less congestion. Open data only benefits passengers and mobility. Several governments are already setting a good example today. The Flemish government already releases data for use in traffic applications and intelligent transport systems. Abroad, different transport companies release their timetables and real-time information to web and app developers. In their own country, for example, De Lijn already makes its timetable available to the popular search engines. STIB and TEC also decided to make their data available. Something's already moving with SNCB too. In the autumn, SNCB's timetable would also be included in Google's applications. However, it is still insufficient for the time being. That is why we believe that the motion for a resolution which calls for the inclusion of open dates in management contracts remains absolutely necessary. It is time that SNCB followed that logic and had both its static information, for example on stations, timetable or service in the stations, and the dynamic up-to-date information, i.e. real-time information on incidents and delays, recorded and made available as open data. These objectives should, as has been said, be included in the new management contracts. SNCB will have to make its database available so that others can develop their own and more customer-friendly applications. If we blossom more train apps, train usage will only grow. We are convinced of that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-plenair-ip061x.u30	First of all, I would like to welcome the initiator of the Jef Van den Bergh resolution. It is undeniable that digital technology is largely the economic landscape of the 21st century and represents one of the important levers of employment and growth for Belgium. In particular, the digital sector represents a boon and an opportunity for innovative SMEs, as well as for start-ups and young entrepreneurs who want to engage in ethics. The federal government has understood these issues well and the importance of digital technology, as shown by the "digital Belgium" and start-up plan, but also by the Parliament which voted last week, by a large majority, to protect the open Internet. This state of mind, this openness, is all the more important as it fits perfectly into the European Union's policy of dealing with Belgium, especially to hang this leading car of countries relying on the digital economy as a lever of growth. It is also in this context that the federal government's desire to introduce open data, also known as open data, is reflected. Open data is the provision of data, particularly by the public authorities to society as a whole, without infringing the privacy of anyone. These well-used data allow for better interaction and connectivity between the administration and citizens and businesses. The intelligent use of this data also allows for the massive entry into the market of new services, new applications bringing an excess of services both in quality and in quantity. These new markets, privileged playgrounds for many start-ups and young SMEs should also benefit local employment and economic fabric. If these observations on the opportunities presented by open data are valid for all sectors, it is even more true for our Committee on Infrastructure, which deals with both mobility and the digital agenda. SNCB, with the large amount of data instantly updated to translate its immediate or scheduled service offer, is the typical example of a company where open data would benefit all players. Developers could create apps with instant information about rail traffic while users could benefit from a more comprehensive and fully customized service. Freedom of choice, consumer protection and the development of creativity are therefore intensified. In order to improve the performance of the railways, and therefore the services offered to users, but also to allow the emergence of new services led by innovative Belgian SMEs and start-ups, the MR Group supports this motion for a resolution to encourage SNCB and Infrabel to collaborate on the open data strategy. Thank you again, Jef, for this proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-plenair-ip061x.u31	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, when we received the text of this motion for a resolution in committee, I was initially rather positive. The longer the discussion progressed, the more I began to feel like Waldorf and Statler, not at all in terms of appearance, but because those characters at first also say that something is not bad, but in the course of the screening find that something fundamental is lacking. I respect, of course, the views of the proposers on a number of 'dogmatic' approaches, at least as far as I am concerned. As a result, the sp.a did not adopt this text. The question is what we have against open data. It is said that open data can be an enrichment. That basic idea is true, but what mainly disturbs us in the motion for a resolution and why we will vote against is recital D, which states that the public authorities must let go of what society or the private sector can do. That seems to be a very innocent sentence, but if one thinks philosophically about it, then that means that the government must get out of the picture. This is the common thread that runs through this majority. Everything government is de facto bad. If we can knock on the officials or public undertakings for a moment, we will do so. In all the texts, that actually creeps in silently, but that is absolutely not in line with our philosophy and we cannot support it. We are in favour of open dates in substance, but we cannot support this motion for a resolution. I'll illustrate that by e-Rail and Railtime. E-Rail was a non-profit association of private companies that had developed an app. This is a regrettable story that I also mentioned in the previous legislature. SNCB took action against e-Rail at the time. I think that was completely unwise. They then tried to develop Infrabel Railtime themselves. At the moment, that project is dead. At the time, we tabled an amendment on this subject, which we have tabled again today. In doing so, we want to change recital D so that cooperation between public authorities and private app developers can be made possible and services to travellers can be optimised. The past has shown that cooperation is possible and that it can only be improved. The current text wants the government to keep its hands off all of this. I also wonder whether it is not the central task of SNCB to collect and monitor the data. This text leaves everything to the private sector. That is not a problem in itself, as long as there is a neutral government organisation. The question arises, however, to what extent, in the context of privacy regulation as a user, certain resources and core data will have to be released to register on websites, for example, so that public data can be used. If we are against this resolution, it is mainly about that fundamental point. We shall also vote in favour of other texts, which share the same spirit of liberalising public services. That is why we have again tabled two amendments, in the hope that this majority will be able to be convinced to accept that amendment. A first amendment aims to organise cooperation and to amend recital D. In the second amendment we call for sufficient attention to be paid to privacy, an element which we have also discussed several times with Secretary of State Tommelein. A number of fellow Members who have been sitting here for a long time will agree that during the previous legislature there was hardly any talk of privacy, while today no newspaper can be opened or a discussion about privacy is being read. In our second amendment, therefore, we demand respect for the privacy of users. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this motion for a resolution is in itself a good one, but because of the level of privatisation that has crept into it, or perhaps has been nicely incorporated into it, and because the amendment on privacy was not adopted in committee, we will not approve it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-plenair-ip061x.u32	Mr President, Mr Geerts, I think your privacy argument is very faint, because the concept of privacy is explicitly contained in the concept of open data. It is explicitly about releasing non-personal information. As far as the rest of your speech is concerned, I find it rather strange that you say, on the one hand, that you think it is a good proposal but, on the other hand, that you will vote against it. I would rather have expected such matters from another political party, but apparently that is also true in your party. You are hiding behind the basic sentence that the government should not do things that the private sector can do. This applies in this particular case to the development of apps. We do not believe that it is a central task of the government to develop apps for all possible platforms. That's something the private sector can do. I therefore find it very regrettable that you insist that such matters should definitely be done with taxpayers' money. You seem to love spending extra taxpayers' money. In Greece, too, it was done and look where it ends. That's not our way to go. I regret your attitude on this point. Open data is an important theme that brings economic added value. It is a question of economic progress, but also of democratic progress. The public's understanding of the functioning of the government is a wonderful thing. It's on trial in your party program and in Green's. I therefore find it particularly regrettable that you are today playing dirty political games and voting against your own party programme and that of Green.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-plenair-ip061x.u33	Mr Dedecker, I welcome your intervention. She shows how fundamentally different we think about things. Open data is indeed in our party program. I mean it when I say I'm not against open data. Maybe you didn't listen very carefully. In committee, I gave my explanation. In this plenary session, I only said that we have a fundamental problem with point D, in which you say that the government must let go of what society or the private sector can do. In committee, and again here, we offer an alternative. We are far less dogmatic than you have just said. Through a collaboration between the government and private app developers, we want to optimise the service for travellers. That sounds like a nuance, but it's a world of difference. After all, you insist that everything that has to do with the government is bad. Comparisons with Greece do not belong here. The topical and urgent debate is just a few meters away. You can deliver that message there, not here. This is about your dogmatics. The idea of liberalisation should not have been included in this motion for a resolution. That is why we in the committee have tried to propose a valid alternative with our words. Should you yourself have held the pen for this sentence, nothing would have prevented you from accepting it. Indeed, cooperation is considered essential. My colleagues on the committee tried to convince you. I regret that the dogmatics of this government does not allow it. That is why we do not agree with recital D. As far as privacy is concerned, I think you're mistaken. I know that data must be anonymised in itself, because that is the aspect of open data, but in the light of the need to safeguard privacy, we must be careful not to grab everything. I believe that this will be the new debate which has actually begun in this legislature and which will be further developed in the coming years. I hope, Mr Dedecker, that I have answered you sufficiently.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-plenair-ip061x.u34	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in this fundamental debate for the future of the SNCB Group, we are at the aperitif of the debate which is due to come next week. I believe that all the groups in this Parliament, especially those of the majority, are waiting for Minister Galant's train. This train is a little late. It's announced way 5, Infrastructure Commission, next week. Mr. Ducrame doesn't know that. We therefore await this important debate on Ms Galant's strategic vision, which will be a new challenge for SNCB. We know that there are several challenges ahead for the SNCB Group, among them the financing issues which are very annoying to the majority when we remind them of the savings, Mr Van den Bergh, which have been asked of the SNCB Group for this parliamentary term by this majority. So I'll call them back because I see it hurts you. These savings imposed by the majority outline the context in which the SNCB must evolve, with a strategic vision of the Minister. We are waiting and the minister and her strategic vision. To furnish this expectation, Mr Frédéric, I come to talk to you about the open data of SNCB and to explain how much we want that in the future management contracts of SNCB and Infrabel... Mr Van den Bergh, that's what this is about, your text (you are the primordial) aims to give guidance on the drafting of management contracts. Like the rest of what Mrs Galant does, these contracts are announced one day, postponed the next day and still expected on the third day. You know that! There was the procession of Echternach; now there is the procession of Mrs. Galant. The management contracts we expected in 2015, Mr Frédéric, will not be at the meeting. They will be postponed to 2016. So, before we start the discussion on management contracts, the majority comes with a few texts, a few small ammunitions. Mr. Van den Bergh comes with open data, a very interesting subject, exciting about the future of rail but there are two conditions to meet. That is also what my colleague, Mr Geerts, has just pointed out. The context of your text is very unpleasant for the public service. The first element that appears in your text, in the recitals, is this very unfortunate sentence which says that, after all, most of SNCB's missions can be privatized. This is a clear call not for murder, but for privatization. There is a sentence that says that some elements could be made by the private. When we tried to get you to correct this in committee, we did not get a satisfactory answer. That is the first reason why we will not support this text. Mr Ducrame, it will be necessary for the MR to take a clear position on this issue because it does not! You talk about a lot of other things, but you never talk about your real goal in terms of mobility. The second element concerns the protection of personal data. When we tried to improve the text to say that there needed to be safeguards to ensure that there was no commercial use – and therefore drifts – of this data opening, we did not have a guarantee. This subject will obviously be at the heart of the next management contract, and no one doubts it. We want tomorrow's management contracts to have a strong element on open data. Tomorrow, in particular in terms of multimodality, in connection with De Lijn, STIB, TECs, trains, there must be an improvement of the service to the benefit of users through the use of open data. That is what is desired. When you give, by your resolution, a clear message for the conclusion of management contracts, you remove the necessary tags in terms of personal data protection and you do not give any guarantee. When you were questioned, you didn't give any answers, which is even more distressing. But, above all, you have opened up, through your text, the possibility of privatizing the whole file. We are in favour of a clear text in the management contract, and not just on this issue but on many public service objectives. We will oppose your text. We hope that the SNCB will finally become a major issue in the mobility policy of a government that has decided to act through budgetary constraints, without giving any perspective.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-plenair-ip061x.u35	Mr President, I would like to respond to a few comments at the end of the debate. With regard to recital D, which has been mentioned a number of times, we are accused of dogma and so on. I actually think that is a dogmatic reading of the preamble. I understand that recital as follows: why should we do what others can do better? We must read the preamble in this way, regardless of the dogmatic interpretations others give to it. A second element is privacy. As Mr Dedecker has already mentioned, the definition of open data already includes absolute protection of private data. These are records of trains, stations and delays. It's not entirely clear to me what that has to do with privacy. I have a bit of a feeling that on a subject on which there is great consensus, both speakers have been looking for nails on low water, which have also been indicated, in order to be able to oppose it. The expression it's the duty of the opposition to oppose is very strong here. However, I am pleased that a large majority will be in favour of the resolution before us.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-plenair-ip061x.u36	Mr President, I would like to reply to Mr. Van den Bergh. Not giving him an answer would be to consider that what he said does not matter, which is not the case. I would like to tell him that the amendments that have been introduced by Mr Geerts are the best way, and perhaps a last step. If you consider that your recitals do not matter and are misinterpreted, or interpreted in a dogma-tic way, you have the opportunity, by making an opening gesture with regard to these amendments, to have unanimity. Isn't that right, Mr. Geerts? So I'm going back to you with the argument. Who is dogmatic in this file?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-plenair-ip061x.u37	It is an open question, Mr Cheron. There's no answer. Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The meeting's over. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-plenair-ip061x.u38	• David Geerts cs (1117/4) ******
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-plenair-ip061x.u39	The vote on the amendments that have been tabled and on the whole of the proposal will take place later. The vote on the reserved amendments and on the whole proposal will take place at a later stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-plenair-ip061x.u40	Proposals tabled by: Proposals submitted by: - 540: Carina Van Cauter, Sabien Lahaye-Battheu, Nele Lijnen - 109: Sonja Becq, Raf Terwingen, Servais Verherstraeten. I propose that a single discussion be devoted to these two legislative proposals. I propose that you devote one discussion to these two bills.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-plenair-ip061x.u41	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The reporters are Ms Özlem Özen, Ms Sophie De Wit and Mr Stefaan Van Hecke.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-plenair-ip061x.u42	Mr President, I refer to the written report. Since my two fellow Members are abandoning me, I cannot give a proper report.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-plenair-ip061x.u43	Mr President, at first sight this proposal is a proposal like another, yet it has a special significance and we note a deep human feeling temperature. It fits in with a long series of legislative parliamentary initiatives, including the work of the Special Committee on Sexual Abuse, in order to improve the position of the victim of sexual violence. The continued attention to the damage caused by sexual violence to humans has led to, inter alia, an increase in the limitation period. There was also a right to speak for aid workers and the use of the Sexual Aggression Set was encouraged. The emphasis was placed on a good flow of information between all actors involved. I would like to mention just a few of the measures that have been taken. In other words, a great deal has been done to address this issue, to make things concrete and to make victims of sexual violence feel that there has been social involvement in what has happened to them and that they are not alone or unprotected. Nevertheless, ladies and gentlemen, a great deal of work remains to be done. We need to stay alert and set the bar ever higher in the legislative work. We must deal with all aspects and consequences of sexual violence and, more generally, of crimes that harm the physical integrity of others. All aspects are undesirable and so they all need to be eliminated and answered. According to recent figures from the public prosecutors, around 12,000 cases of sexual assault or rape were opened in 2012. The victims not only have moral damage, but often also serious physical injuries. In addition, they still run the risk of being infected with virus disease, such as HIV. In some cases, the risk may rise to 1 in 100. It is, of course, important that the victims are treated immediately and that they are given AIDS inhibitors within 72 hours. The cost of treatment amounts to more than EUR 1 000 per month. Moreover, the medication can have serious side effects and not only causes social security, but also costs the victims themselves, simply because the suspected perpetrators refuse to undergo an HIV test or test on other communicable diseases. This is particularly true of the facts of sexual violence. The same applies, however, to other forms of violence, for example, when a police officer is bitten by a arrester or when an emergency incident occurs. The legislative proposal that we are putting to the vote today, which was unanimously adopted in the Committee on Justice, is therefore intended to oblige a suspect or a third party to undergo a test in order to avoid unnecessary and costly preventive treatment, but above all to free the victims from weeks of uncertainty and fear. The test can determine whether the persons are carriers of the HIV virus or other serious infectious diseases such as hepatitis B or C, which can be transmitted to the victim at the time of the offence. The starting point is that the defendant voluntarily cooperates in the blood collection, but in the event of refusal, the King's Attorney may order the removal of a quantity of cheek mucous membrane, albeit after permission from the investigating judge. When we refuse, we deliberately opt for the saliva test. In this way, we avoid the risk of infection of a doctor or of accompanying judicial or police personnel in the event of the defendant's reaction to a blood sample. It is not intended to link criminal consequences to the results of the analysis. According to doctors, it is virtually impossible to prove that the suspect has passed the infection on to the victim. However, we can limit the suffering of the victims as much as possible by not exposing them to unnecessary medication when it appears that there is no risk of infection. Of course, we also lay down rules on the communication of the report by the expert who carried out the investigation, sharing the results of the analysis no more than necessary than for the purpose proposed and destroying the samples as quickly as possible. We are aware that the new law must respect a number of international and national rules of law, which protect, inter alia, physical integrity and the right to privacy. However, those principles provide for exceptions. In other words, they are not absolute when the facts in question have a legal basis and are justified in the interests of public order or morality, or are motivated by the pursuit of the prevention of criminal offences. In our view, the new legislative text is going through the scrutiny of the proportionality requirements. As the chairman of the Privacy Committee pointed out during the hearings, a blood test obviously violates the integrity of a person. However, the question arises as to whether that right should not give way to the same victim's right to physical and psychological integrity. As a victim of a crime, her or his integrity has already been violated, and almost always in a bolder and more violent manner than the intervention needed to take the test. In a reasonable balance of interests between the two interests in this fundamental rights dispute, it is clear that the victim's claims outweigh those of the suspected perpetrator or even of the third party concerned. As the text has now been drafted, such a blood drain is a limited measure, which hardly violates physical integrity. In our law, we also have several precedents. Its execution will also be carried out by a physician, which provides the necessary guarantees of professional conduct, with the least damage. Of course, personal data may only be collected for specific, explicitly defined and justified purposes. The definition of the objectives pursued must therefore be so precise, detailed and complete that it can be properly verified whether the personal data collected are adequate and relevant, and not excessive in relation to the purpose of the processing. Therefore, the explanatory memorandum to the legislative proposal explicitly states that it is only intended to provide the best care and support for the victim and does not aim to criminalise HIV or other communicable diseases and/or criminalise the transmission of such diseases when this is not intentional. Colleagues, there is now a pilot project in the judicial district of East Flanders, Ghent. According to the first signals we are receiving, it is going very well. With our proposal, we want to create a legal framework and respond to the demand of the field in order to improve the position of the victims of, above all, but not only, sexual abuse. I hope that our text will receive the same support in plenary as it did in the Committee on Justice. It was a heartwarming feeling to me that the classical contradictions that sometimes seem to be baked in our order could be overcome in committee. The text was adopted unanimously. I do know that democracy is called the art of organized differences of opinion. I also know that the problem of boat refugees and the humanitarian consequences of the continuing crisis in Greece are of a totally different order, but when it comes to truth and justice, Albert Einstein said, there is no distinction between small and big problems. This proposal increases justice for the victims of sexual violence and improves their legal protection once again. Thank you all very much.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-plenair-ip061x.u44	Mr President, I will be brief, because Mr Van Cauter has actually said everything that needs to be said about this text. I'll add two or three things. Firstly, ladies and gentlemen, this is a remarkable text, especially when one sees where we come from. The problem has been identified on the ground. Doctors, police and prosecutors have found together that there is a problem that had to be addressed, but for which there was no legal framework. We had to leave a white leaf to offer a solution. It was therefore not an easy matter. Making this law was a delicate balancing exercise. It's been a long time. Many amendments have been tabled. There are several slopes walked and abandoned again. We can regard this as a collective work in which majority and opposition have worked constructively. I do believe that vigilance is necessary. I have continued to ask critical questions in committee about the possible consequences of one or the other choice. We can't settle everything with this law. I believe that we must remain vigilant so that if problems arise on the ground, we can quickly remedy them. Finally, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that we have also used the second reading in the drafting of this law. We did not do this in order to delay treatment, but to strengthen the quality of the text. That second reading really made the text even better. This was done at the request of the majority, who apparently is convinced that a second reading could be good for the quality of the texts. It is very important that we have achieved this in the Committee on Justice. We have the culture there to accept this and use it in a positive way. I hope that this can be applied on the ground. Hopefully this will be a very strong support and a step forward in the reception of victims of sexual violence.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-plenair-ip061x.u45	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we ourselves had tabled a legislative proposal concerning the problem of possible infection with a serious disease, HIV or hepatitis. This bill was based on a proposal from Mr Sabine de Bethune, which was tabled more than a legislative period ago. However, we were pleased to have contributed to the finalisation of the legislative proposal subsequently submitted by Mr Van Cauter. Victims of a violent crime are given the opportunity by this bill to obtain an early ruling on a possible contagion. In this way, people can be prevented from taking unnecessarily preventive medication, which can have serious side effects and is expensive. The finality of this bill is therefore mainly health and the need to be sure as soon as possible about whether or not there is a health risk, without pre-empting the criminal investigation. I believe that this was the most important element in the whole discussion. This has also been demonstrated by the hearings, by the comments of Sensoa and the Privacy Commission. The finality is health, not the HIV infection itself or the intention to charge a potential offender by including it as part of the criminal investigation. I believe that the many discussions in committee and beyond, and the hearings, have made a good contribution to the present legislative proposal with all the nuances it contains. The main purpose of this legislative proposal is to ensure that the data can be clarified quickly without prejudice to the criminal investigation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-plenair-ip061x.u46	Mr President, Minister, everything has actually been said. Mrs Van Cauter, it has to be said that there is a shift here. It may be just a small stone, but it's one. Any stone that can contribute to better protection of victims is an important one. I am very pleased that we have been able to work together on this in committee. I think we also owe this to victims who have experienced such serious cases. That way we can already offer a solution. We can generalise a pilot project which has been successful in practice. We can give a positive response to this. I think this is an important bill, no matter how small the stone is. Indeed, Mr Van Hecke, the second reading has been used in this case. There is a difference between use and abuse, but in this case the second reading was used for good, which can provide a number of safeguards under the legislation. It is clear that this must be done, because each party must be able to be protected in such a situation. I think that we have succeeded in this balancing exercise.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-plenair-ip061x.u47	Mr President, in order to allow us to return to the Justice Committee for the question-and-answer session, I will be very brief. On behalf of the MR Group, I welcome the outcome of this text, which is the result of lengthy debates already under way during the previous parliamentary term. This is a well thought out, mature proposal, and a second reading has been added. Indeed, Mr Van Hecke, in this case it has been particularly well used and we welcome it. What are we talking about? The aim is to optimize interventions for victims. As we know, there is a medication process that, within 72 hours of an attack, can eventually stop the process of a disease. But we can also save money for this intervention if it proves useless because it is care that, for the patient, is physically, psychologically and financially heavy. If, through this system, we can avoid this kind of intervention that would prove useless, it would be a good thing. We also welcome the fact that this committee has been able to work calmly and to reach a consensus which has led to unanimity on this final text. That is a good thing and, as chairman of the committee, I can only welcome it. This is an improvement that is brought about by the fate of the victims.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-plenair-ip061x.u48	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-plenair-ip061x.u49	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (540/9) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (540/9) The title in Dutch was changed by the Committee in a proposal for a law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure as regards the possibility of transmission of a serious infectious disease." Commission and draft law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure as regards the possibility of the transmission of a serious infectious disease.' The bill has 7 articles. The bill has 7 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-plenair-ip061x.u50	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 9 July 2015 at 2.15 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Thursday, 9 July 2015, at 2.15 p.m.
