ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-13-54-plenair-ip072x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-13-54-plenair-ip072x.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, the Chamber meets today of its own accord pursuant to Article 44 of the Constitution. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, the House is meeting today, as a matter of law, under section 44 of the Constitution. I declare the legislative session 2015-2016 open. I declare the 2015-2016 legislative session open.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-13-54-plenair-ip072x.u3	By letter of 22 September 2015, the Prime Minister shall transmit a copy of the Royal Decree of 22 September 2015 entitled "Government discharge'. By letter dated September 22, 2015, the Prime Minister transmitted a copy of the Royal Order of September 22, 2015 entitled "Government – Resignation – Appointment".
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-13-54-plenair-ip072x.u4	Article 50 of the Constitution states that "A member of one of the two chambers appointed by the King as Minister and appointing him shall hold his office and resume his term of office when the King has ceased his office as Minister." Article 50 of the Constitution provides that "the member of one of the two Chambers, appointed by the King as Minister and accepting him, shall cease to sit and resume his term of office when he has been terminated by the King as Minister". According to Article 1a of the Law of 6 August 1931 determining the incomparencies and disqualifications concerning ministers, former ministers and ministers of State, as well as the members and former members of the Legislative Chambers, the Minister or State Secretary of the Federal Government who ceases to sit is replaced by the first eligible successor to the list on which the Minister or State Secretary is elected. According to Article 1bis of the Law of 6 August 1931 establishing incompatibilities and prohibitions concerning ministers, former ministers and ministers of State, as well as members and former members of the Legislative Chambers, the minister or secretary of state of the federal government who ceases to sit is replaced by the first substitute in order of the list on which the minister or secretary of state was elected. On 14 September 2015, Ms Sophie Wilmès took the oath as a member of the Federal Government of Didier Reynders. Sophie Wilmès, who was an alternate for Didier Reynders, was sworn in on September 14, 2015 as a member of the federal government. We must therefore proceed with the admission and swearing-in of the first successor, in a useful order, to replace Mr Didier Reynders. We must therefore proceed to the admission and swearing-in of the first substitute in good order to sit in lieu of Mr Didier Reynders. This concerns Mr Gautier Calomne, the first successor to the MR list of the Brussels-Capital constituency, in place of Mr Didier Reynders. This is Mr Gautier Calomne, the first alternate member of the MR list for the electoral district of Brussels-Capital. The credentials of this successor were declared valid at our meeting on 19 June 2014. The credentials of this alternate were validated at our meeting on 19 June 2014. I therefore propose that this successor be allowed to sit as a member of the Chamber of Representatives in place of a member appointed by the King as minister and for the duration of his term of office. I therefore propose that you proceed to the admission of this alternate to serve as a member of the House of Representatives in place of a member appointed by the King as Minister and for the duration of his duties. I would remind you that the successor who replaced or replaced a Member following his appointment as Minister, retains the rank he had as successor, in case a mandate falls open pursuant to Rule 12 (3) of the Rules of Procedure. I would point out that, pursuant to rule 12, third paragraph, of the Rules, an alternate who replaces or has replaced a member appointed as a minister shall retain the rank he had as an alternate in the event that a term becomes vacant. Are you sure you don't mind? No observation? [[No]] It is thus decided. That will be the case. I would remind the House that the elected representatives of the electoral board of the Brussels-Capital constituency are part of the Dutch or French language group of the Chamber, depending on whether they take the oath in Dutch or in French. If the oath is taken in several languages, the language in which it was first taken is decisive. I would point out that the deputies elected by the electoral college of the electoral district of Brussels-Capital are members of either the French linguistic group or the Dutch linguistic group of the Chamber, depending on whether they take an oath in French or Dutch. If the oath is taken in several languages, the one used in the first place is decisive. I recall the words of the oath: "I swear to comply with the Constitution" "Your judge d'observer la Constitution" "Ich schwöre die Verfassung zu befolgen." Je rappelle les termes du serment: "Je jure d'observer la Constitution" "I swear to comply with the Constitution" "Ich schwöre die Verfassung zu befolgen." I would ask Mr Gautier Calomne to take the constitutional oath. I ask Mr Gautier Calomne to take the constitutional oath.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-13-54-plenair-ip072x.u5	Mr Gautier Calomne will be part of the French language group. Mr. Gautier Calomne will be a member of the French linguistic group.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-13-54-plenair-ip072x.u6	The next item is the appointment of the permanent Bureau. The next item is the nomination of the final Bureau. 1. The Agency shall consist of: - the President, - the three Vice-Presidents; - the Bureau members. 2. The Office shall be supplemented by: (a) former Presidents, members of the Chamber; (b) the chairmen of the political groups; (c) an additional member per political group with fewer than 12 members who are not members in No. 1 member of the Office referred to. 1. The Bureau shall be composed as follows: - the President; - three Vice-Presidents; - members of the bureau. 2. The Bureau shall be supplemented by: (a) former Presidents, members of the House; (b) the chairmen of the political groups; (c) one associate member per political group with fewer than 12 members and without a member of the Bureau referred to in point 1. The President shall be elected in accordance with Rule 157 of the Rules of Procedure. The President shall be appointed in accordance with rule 157 of the Rules of Procedure. The Chamber shall appoint the Vice-Presidents and Bureau members in accordance with Rule 158 No. 1, first sentence, on a proposal from the political groups. The Presidency shall be included in the allocation of these functions according to the proportional representation of the political groups. In addition, as many members as are necessary for each political group with at least 12 members to have at least one member of the Bureau. The Vice-Presidents and members of the Bureau shall be appointed by the Chamber in accordance with Rule 158(1), first sentence, and on the proposal of the political groups, provided that the Presidency is taken into account for the allocation of these functions according to the rule of proportional representation of political groups and that as many appointments are made as is necessary for each political group of at least 12 members to have at least one member on the Bureau.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-13-54-plenair-ip072x.u7	The only election to be held is that of the President of the Chamber. The only appointment to be made is that of the Speaker of the House. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-13-54-plenair-ip072x.u8	Mr President, I have the honour and pleasure to present Mr Siegfried Bracke's candidacy.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-13-54-plenair-ip072x.u9	As only one candidate is nominated, no vote shall be taken. Consequently, Mr Siegfried Bracke has been elected President of the Chamber and I would ask him to sit at the Bureau, but I am already sitting here. Since there is only one candidate, there is no vote. As a result, Mr. Siegfried Bracke is elected Speaker of the House and I would ask him to take a seat on the Bureau. Colleagues, thank you for your confidence and I would like to announce that I will do my utmost. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-13-54-plenair-ip072x.u10	The next item is the appointment of the three Vice-Presidents and the Bureau members. The three Vice-Presidents and the members of the Bureau should be appointed. In accordance with Rules 3, 1 and 158, 1 of our Rules of Procedure, we shall appoint 1 PS, 1 MR, 1 CD&V, 1 N-VA, 1 Open Vld, 1 sp.a and 1 Ecolo-Green in the following order. In accordance with Articles 3, 1, and 158, 1 of our Rules of Procedure, we must appoint in order 1 PS, 1 MR, 1 CD&V, 1 N-VA, 1 Open Vld, 1 sp.a. and 1 Ecolo-Groen. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-13-54-plenair-ip072x.u11	Mr. Chairman, I have the joy and privilege of proposing Mr. André Frédéric as the first Vice-President.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-13-54-plenair-ip072x.u12	Mr President, I propose the nomination of Mrs Françoise Schepmans.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-13-54-plenair-ip072x.u13	Mr President, I propose Mrs Sonja Becq's candidacy.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-13-54-plenair-ip072x.u14	I declare Mr André Frédéric, Mrs Françoise Schepmans and Mrs Sonja Becq elected Vice-Presidents. I declare Mr. André Frédéric, Mrs. Françoise Schepmans and Ms. Sonja Becq elected as Vice-Presidents of the House. We shall now proceed to the appointment of the members of the Bureau.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-13-54-plenair-ip072x.u15	Mr President, I would like to propose Mrs Smeyers' candidacy.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-13-54-plenair-ip072x.u16	Mr President, I would like to propose the candidacy of Mr Dirk Van Mechelen.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-13-54-plenair-ip072x.u17	Mr President, I would like to propose the candidacy of Mr Johan Vande Lanotte.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-13-54-plenair-ip072x.u18	Mr President, I propose the man who has the most experience in this field at home: Mr Stefaan Van Hecke.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-13-54-plenair-ip072x.u19	I declare Mrs Sarah Smeyers and Mr Dirk Van Mechelen, Johan Vande Lanotte and Stefaan Van Hecke elected members of the Bureau of the Chamber. I declare Sarah Smeyers and MM. Dirk Van Mechelen, Johan Vande Lanotte and Stefaan Van Hecke elected as members of the Bureau of the House. The Office shall also include: - former Presidents, member of the Chamber; - the chairmen of the political groups: Mr Hendrik Vuye, Chairman of the N-VA Group; Ms Laurette Onkelinx, Chairman of the PS Group; Mr Denis Ducarme, Chairman of the MR Group; Mr Servais Verherstraeten, Chairman of the CD&V Group; Mr Patrick Dewael, President of the Open Group; Ms Meryame Kitir, Chairman of the sp.a Group; (By letter of 2 October 2015, the sp.a Group of the European Parliament informed me that Ms Meryame Kitir was appointed as group chairman.) Mr Jean-Marc Nollet, Chairman of the Ecolo-Green Group; Ms Catherine Fonck, Chairman of the CdH Group; - an additional member per political group with fewer than 12 members who do not have a bureau member. I give the floor to the chairman of the CdH Group, who has not been appointed to the Bureau by the Chamber, for the appointment of an additional member. The following members of the Bureau are also members of the Bureau: - former presidents, members of the House; - the presidents of the political groups: Mr Hendrik Vuye, Chairman of the N-VA Group; Ms Laurette Onkelinx, President of the PS Group; Mr Denis Ducrame, President of the MR Group; Mr Servais Verherstraeten, Chairman of the CD&V Group; Mr Patrick Dewael, Chairman of the Open Vld Group; Ms Meryame Kitir, president of the sp.a. group; (By letter of 2 October 2015, the sp.a. group of the Chamber informed Ms Meryame Kitir of the appointment as group chairman.) Mr Jean-Marc Nollet, Chairman of the Ecolo-Groen Group; Catherine Fonck, president of the cdH group; - one associate member per political group with fewer than 12 members and without a member on the Bureau. I give the floor to the chair of the cdH group who does not have a member of the Bureau appointed by the House for the appointment of an associate member.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-13-54-plenair-ip072x.u20	Mr President, I propose the candidacy of Mr Francis Delperée.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-13-54-plenair-ip072x.u21	I declare Mr Francis Delpérée elected as an additional member of the Bureau. I declare Mr. Francis Delperee an associate member of the Bureau.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-13-54-plenair-ip072x.u22	The Chamber has been declared lawful and complete. This will be notified to the King, to the Senate and to the community and regional parliaments. The Chamber is constituted. This will be made known to the King, the Senate and the community and regional parliaments. That Kammer ist zusammengestellt. Seine Majestät der König, der Senat sowie die Regional- und Gemeinschaftsparlamente became hiervon in Kentnis gesetzt.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-13-54-plenair-ip072x.u23	Mr President, my colleague Mr Kristof Calvo sent you a letter on Sunday. We would like to know the answer that the Prime Minister has given you. In this letter, we asked to have access, before our work, to the budget tables, in order to avoid unnecessary debate, and perhaps as a gift to Mr Dewael, whose birthday it is today. You have told us, and I thank you again, that you have forwarded the request to the Prime Minister. I wanted to know his answer. There is a lot of uncertainty behind the figures that are given to us. Many questions remain. According to this morning's press, some new taxes would be questioned. On the bank tax, the figures do not match. If only for the credibility of the Prime Minister's speech, could we have access to the numerical tables? We have not yet had an answer to our request.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-13-54-plenair-ip072x.u24	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I confirm that the budget tables will be presented at the same time as the statement I will make in a few moments before Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-13-54-plenair-ip072x.u25	The next item is the government statement. The next item is the government statement. I call the Prime Minister. The Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-13-54-plenair-ip072x.u26	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, lucidity is the first condition for making good decisions for our citizens and for the general interest. There are many of our assets. The location at the heart of Europe and the presence of many international institutions, for example, but also our rail, port, airport infrastructure, the productivity of our workforce, its multilingualism are also well-recognised strengths beyond our borders. Ladies and gentlemen, today the Belgian economy is on the right track, on the right path, towards sustainable growth in order to maintain quality living standards. The National Bank's latest forecast is for economic growth of 1.3 per cent in 2015. This is slightly below the euro area compared to the expected average. Of course, these figures do not yet take into account the latest economic and fiscal decisions we have taken. We will ask the National Bank and the Office of the Plan to analyse the consequences. Growth is boosted by higher consumption, lower oil prices and depreciation of the euro. Export growth is expected to reach 3.4 per cent in 2015 and even 4.2 per cent in 2016. The number of bankruptcies decreased by 14% this summer compared to last year and business investment increased by 2.6% in 2014. They are even expected to grow by 3.3% in 2015 and 2016. The number of mortgages is booming, with a growth rate of 31 per cent compared to last year. Of course, these signals are encouraging. They show that we're on the right path. But these signals – we measure them – are not yet structural enough. Out of the question of pouring into a form of triumphalism! We are optimistic, but we are realistic. Economic and geopolitical developments at the international level have and will still have an influence on our situation. Growth in emerging markets has slowed. However, they are an increasingly important part of the world economy. For example, the IMF has reduced its global growth forecasts to 3.1 per cent in the July forecast. Economic reality is a perpetual movement. We must therefore strengthen our comparative advantages and correct our points of fragility. Strengthen our economic model in the service of social protections, not only quantitative growth, but also qualitative improvement of living standards. That is what we must aim for. We must, of course, put our budget in order. Compliance with European commitments is confirmed. We have made the choice to clean up our public finances. We want to reduce deficits to stem the vicious cycle of debt. We must constantly make sure that we spend less, but also that we spend better. The 2015 budget will be adjusted with an improvement in the structural balance of 0.6% in 2015 and 2016, with the objective of achieving structural balance in 2018. We will carry out regular monitoring not only on the budgetary front, but also a monitoring of the implementation of the economic and fiscal reforms that are decided. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the coalition agreement is based on a social project. The triptych of freedom, solidarity and responsibility is the cornerstone of that political project. Economic development is not an end in itself. Economic development and job creation are at the service of our social protection, and that is our objective. We are not just talking about solidarity; we are working on it. The first priority is to support job creation. We have taken immediate measures to strengthen investment and to facilitate the creation of additional jobs. Ladies and gentlemen, 99% of our businesses are small and medium-sized enterprises and they are the backbone of our economy and thus of our prosperity. We encourage entrepreneurial spirit and initiative. We want to support those who take risks so that they can create additional jobs. The start-up tax shelter is a strong fiscal incentive to ease access to finance and thus develop the real economy. We are convinced that the digital agenda offers a unique opportunity for our country. The digital economy should grow by 8% over the next five years. Digital Belgium needs to get our country in the top three of the most digitized countries in Europe. We are also convinced that a thousand new start-ups and fifty thousand new jobs can be created. The development of e-commerce is also a spectacular and exponential change. We can't miss the boat. For several months, the social partners have been consulting to adapt night work related to e-commerce. The government will ensure that the necessary decisions can be taken by the end of this year. There is also a lot of added value and employment in the catering industry. Everyone realizes that this is a very specific sector because of the unpredictability of the workload, and hence of the hours. Restaurants have waited a long time for adapted answers. We have introduced flexi-jobs, we have relaxed the regime of overtime and we have made the system of casual work more attractive. Those are concrete answers. Ladies and gentlemen, construction is faced with a paradox. On the one hand, construction activities in our country have increased by 1.8 %, but on the other hand, the sector has suffered a real loss of jobs for domestic workers. Every year, the sector generates more than EUR 20 billion for our budget. This crucial sector is in difficulty today. Social dumping creates unfair competition for our companies. We heard the alarm signal. We have been working with employers and trade unions for many months. The first measures to combat social dumping have already been taken. We need to combat the illegal posting of workers more effectively. In a broader context, both the fight against social and fiscal fraud must be at the centre. The battery of measures we have already taken will not miss its effect. Colleagues, the work done in one year is enormous. The reduction of social contributions from 33 % to 25 %, the exemption from the charges for the first jobs created in SMEs, improvements to the social status of self-employed people, the abolition of the compensation ceilings for the work of pensioners, the reform of income for supplementary unemployment, the tax shelter and crowdfunding to finance SMEs, the modernisation of time credit, the reform of integration allowances, the recognition and improvement of the status of close caregivers, are some of the many decisions already taken. With an obsession: creating conditions for more employment in our country. Jobs, jobs, jobs! We want to go even further! To go further is to make a commitment to implement tax reform and a shift tax. This commitment is being fulfilled. Work in Belgium is too taxed, all international surveys have shown this. We want to make a tax slide to increase net wages and lower the costs of hiring. More wages pocket for everyone, and above all for low and medium wages. We want to lower the tax burden. We must therefore improve the value for money of the functioning of the State. We have already started the process of re-designing our administrations and, above all, we have decided to inject EUR 8.3 billion of fuel into our country's economic engine. It's not a slogan, it's a decision. We are concrete. As of 2016, wages will be increased to 83 net euros per month for the lowest of them. At the end of the legislature, tax cuts will range from a minimum of 74 euros per month to 146 euros per month for low wages. 1 752 euros a year is far more than a thirteenth month! Promise held! This government is truly social and responsible. We are reforming the tax on natural persons. We are increasing the threshold from which the first euro of tax is paid. We increase the deductibility of lump-sum charges. We are reforming the 45% rate. We're removing the 30% rate. It is a historic reform, any benefit for wages, especially the lowest and average wages. Ladies and gentlemen, these tax reductions are financed by new taxes on capital income. I am thinking, for example, of the increase in withholding tax, the regularisation procedure, the caiman tax and the tax on stock exchange transactions and the tax on financial speculation. Never before has a government used so much of the income from capital to finance a tax reduction on labour. ( Applause ) We have increased the charges to discourage harmful behaviour for the environment or health. The increase in excise duties on diesel and the reduction in excise duties on petrol are perfectly in line with this environmentally friendly approach. A few weeks before the start of the Paris Climate Conference, we fully assume our responsibilities. In the same vein, the increase in taxes on tobacco and alcohol is part of public health prevention. Ladies and gentlemen, the fight against tax fraud must be a permanent fight. We strengthen our cooperation at international level. Not only have the measures taken in the past been confirmed, but we have also decided to employ a hundred additional officials to strengthen control. The budgetary objective is ambitious. We want to recover more than half a billion euros. Ladies and gentlemen, the wage handicap with our neighbouring countries has destroyed thousands of jobs in recent years and prevented thousands of other jobs from being created. This wage disadvantage with our neighbouring countries has destroyed thousands of jobs and prevented the creation of thousands of additional jobs. A year ago, here, we made a commitment that we kept. We are lowering the burden to encourage the creation of additional jobs. Of course, low wages will be preferred. And I want to be precise: as of 2016, employers' contributions will increase from 17.3% to 13% on a salary of less than 1,500 euros. Before the end of the legislature, we will be at 10.9 per cent. I dare to say this: we are taking a historic step, soon the wage handicap will be only a bad memory. The non-market sector is not forgotten. A substantial part of the reduction in costs is devoted to it and this reflects the desire to implement a fair and equitable project. Going further is also our wish for small and medium-sized enterprises. For the self-employed, EUR 580 million is mobilised. We are also perfectly consistent. Employment, investment and purchasing power are the three objectives. For example, we decide to exempt employers' contributions for the first time by an independent or by an SME. This measure is valid for the next five years. This amounts to up to EUR 11,000 per year compared to the current situation. We want to go even further as we extend the exemptions for second employment until the sixth recruitment, and this measure will even come into effect retroactively to January 1, 2015. In concrete terms, therefore, an SME will be able to reinvest up to 101,000 euros in 4 years compared to the previous situation. On the other hand, we are doubling the measure of deduction of productive investment in SMEs and for the self-employed. We also increase the purchasing power of the self-employed, as in three years contributions will increase from 22 to 20.5 per cent. This represents in concrete terms - I am also precise here - a gain of up to 800 euros per year. More than ever, SMEs and independents are our partners for prosperity. Ladies and gentlemen, agriculture is an economic sector in its own right and faces recurring difficulties. We want to act by introducing measures to ease the payment of social benefits or by devoting tax exemptions on CAP aid. Here too, we want to work with respect for the powers of the regions and to advocate at European level to increase the price of intervention in the context of the milk crisis or to draw up a support plan for beef farmers. Colleagues, the energy debate is a strategic issue. It's a difficult debate. We have measured it in this Parliament. We want to strike the optimal balance between security of supply, competitiveness and energy costs. The environmental and climate dimension is of course fundamental. In order to guarantee the supply, the law of extension of the Doel 1 and 2 units was passed. The opinions of the independent security authorities are obviously essential to us. The next challenge will be to succeed in working hand in hand with the Regions to jointly define an inter-federal energy policy. Ladies and gentlemen, the development of rail transport must also be a priority challenge. The strategic vision for the railways was presented to various actors. This plan must set the quality of service to the customer: punctuality, accessibility, safety and cleanliness. Every year, road accidents result in numerous tragedies in many families. We want to fight impunity at the wheel. Close consultation with the sub-areas, with respect for everyone's powers, will be important. Ladies and gentlemen, the airport strategy is also a delicate and sensitive issue. We need to strike a balance between maintaining an economic activity that creates jobs on the one hand and reducing noise pollution for neighbourhood residents on the other. As announced, a moratorium was introduced on the old flight plan for Brussels. For example, the number of people suffering from flights was drastically reduced. We know that this solution is not perfect or final. We know that this solution is neither definitive nor perfect. The government will continue to consult with local residents and the relevant authorities. I also call on the regional authorities to work together to find the best solution. Ladies and gentlemen, public undertakings are a strategic challenge. We want to make them more agile to be more resilient to social and economic change. The draft revision of the 1991 law has been approved by the government to create a level playing field so that public enterprises can improve their competitiveness. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are focusing on two elements: our generation must today take courageous and necessary decisions to safeguard our social protection. The increase in life expectancy calls for new financial resources to ensure access to quality health care and also to ensure the sustainable payment of pensions. We don't want two-speed medicine. We are in favour of free choice for the patient and therapeutic freedom for the doctor. For example, we have used the reform of hospital funding to link quality to responsibility. We have also made a pact with the pharmaceutical sector to control the evolution of the price of medicines while at the same time guaranteeing the potential for innovation. The future of pensions is primarily a test of solidarity between generations. Of course, it is easier to make people believe that we have to work less long, while we are raising pensions, but that is not the reality. We have therefore decided to limit the conditions for the various forms of early retirement and to gradually increase the statutory retirement age. The National Pension Commission is taking shape. We are also committed to a responsible dialogue with the social partners in order to define the modalities of the reform. In our country, a Belgian on seven lives below the poverty line. No one can continue to monitor this form of exclusion without being unemployed. We are also taking action in this area. Re-integration projects to provide a stable residence for homeless people are being extended and extended to a larger number of municipalities. New projects to better support low-income single mothers will also be implemented. Child poverty will be addressed through support for local initiatives. Last but not least, the automatic allocation of rights and the increase of social minimum priorities. I would like to stress that we are proud that the current government has increased the welfare envelope by 44% compared to the previous period. (Applause from the left) On that point, too, I am specific. The minimums were increased by 2% from September 2015 and 1.8 million pensioners received 15% more holiday money. In the same way, the flat rate and the minimum rates of unemployment and the living wage are increased by 2%. Here too, we want to do even better. From 2016 onwards, 50 million euros will be added to the increase in living wages, the IGAs and the lowest pensions. In total, more than 2.5 million citizens will benefit from these measures. Those are the facts. We have also taken the decision to reform the individual social integration project: a strong response in the light of a logic of rights and obligations. Colleagues, our responsibility is also to work tirelessly for the safety of our fellow citizens. In recent months, Europe has not escaped fanaticism and cowardice. Terrorists have murdered innocent victims. The Jewish Museum in Brussels, Charlie Hebdo or the train between Brussels and Paris were the scene of bloody attacks or attempted attacks. We must protect our democratic values more than ever before. The honour of the Democrats is to defend democracies in accordance with the rules of the rule of law. We must constantly ensure that this balance is struck between the right to security and the protection of fundamental freedoms, such as respect for privacy. We acted immediately with a plan of twelve measures, which were implemented. We have set up the National Security Council. We have organized the possibility of removing identity cards or passports for foreign fighters. We have strengthened the capacity of the task forces and the State Security. We facilitated the use of special investigative techniques. We even used the army in some cases and under certain conditions. I want to say that we are well aware that we are not done with terrorism and that we are going to have to continue to act. The government will soon have to consider the priority tasks for the police services. The aim will be to better articulate the different functions in order to better guarantee the level of security. Justice reforms are also under way. The first texts that improve civil procedure have already been voted on in Parliament. We are working to try to make procedures faster and more efficient. Criminal procedure needs to be improved. The "guilty plea" could be introduced and judicial review of pre-trial detention would be streamlined. In a few months, we have cleared the entire backlog of invoices in the Department of Justice. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we want to work hard to put the country in economic and social order. We want to make it safer for our fellow citizens. We want to be stronger to face the different challenges we face. We're lucid. European and international anchoring influences the situation in Belgium. European integration is one of the pillars of our action. The consolidation of the euro area and the strengthening of the internal market must be our objectives more than ever before. Of course, we must put our budgets in order and we are trying to do so. But we know that structural reforms for fiscal convergence or for the labour market are essential to promote growth and therefore employment. As the founding country of the European Union, we are determined to assume our full role and will be active in the discussions that have begun on the deepening of economic and monetary union. We also want to continue to strengthen cooperation within Benelux. Our diplomatic work is focused on different challenges. There are threats to Europe's immediate neighbourhood. In the east, with the crisis in Ukraine and relations with Russia. But also in the south, where the Middle East and North Africa are boiling. The situation in Syria, Iraq and Libya is a major factor of instability. We advocate a comprehensive approach, both humanitarian, political and diplomatic, and we believe that the military option is not excluded, in accordance with international law and within a coalition. I have a regular opportunity to measure the excellent perception of our military's work in operations abroad. Belgium wants to be a reliable and credible partner in Iraq, Afghanistan, Mali, Africa and the Mediterranean. Sometimes even in our streets, our soldiers work for our security. On behalf of the government, I want to tell them again, thank you! The preparation of the Defence Strategic Plan is well advanced. We will continue to work on this issue in order to define as soon as possible the contours and means for a solid Defence in the service of the security and stability of our society. Ladies and gentlemen, Europe is facing the worst migratory crisis since the Second World War. In a few months' time, we have provided thousands of additional places to accommodate the candidate refugees. We are in favour of a European distribution plan and at the same time we are working on the difficult dossier of the distribution plan in our own country. We are also using development cooperation to support the countries of origin. We are following a very clear direction. We have a human but strong migration policy. We call for both the strengthening of the external borders of the European Union and the introduction of hotspots. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, your assembly gave us its confidence a year ago. Since then, we have implemented many economic and social reforms. We have not chosen the easy way. I would like to reiterate that we want to make progress with respect for social dialogue. In a year's time, the government has concluded numerous social agreements and implemented them to a large extent. Social dialogue has played an important role in the history of our country. Together with the social partners, we want to meet the delicate challenges we face. After the sixth state reform, federal loyalty is another commitment we need to share. Here too, I am convinced that everyone will make their part of the effort to work together in a serene and constructive manner, regardless of the different democratic opinions or relationships of power. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are on the right path. We want to continue. We are on the right track and will continue our course. Our project must revive hope and strengthen confidence. The first decisions were not always easy to make. We certainly need to explain them better; we need to convince them better. We are taking action for the citizens, without exception: everyone is right and has rights and obligations. We do not want anyone to be privileged and we do not want anyone to fall out of the boat. We want to strengthen our economy; we want more jobs; we want to put our accounts in order; we want to consolidate our social protection; we want to fight poverty; we want to support the weakest. Our course is set. We have proved that we are taking responsibility. We are determined to continue the work. The first results will be visible. We are optimistic and realistic, we reject immobilism, we resolutely opt for action. The majority is solid and united, we continue the road together. I'm asking you to give the government the confidence. I ask you to trust the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-13-54-plenair-ip072x.u27	Colleagues, I received a motion of confidence from the Prime Minister at 10.55 p.m. It reads as follows: 'The government demands the trust of the Chamber'. Colleagues, I received a motion of confidence from the Prime Minister at 10.55 a.m., which reads: "The government is asking for the confidence of the House." We cannot vote on this question earlier than 48 hours from now. We cannot vote on this text until 48 hours. This means that we will vote on confidence at 10:55 a.m. on Thursday morning at the earliest.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-13-54-plenair-ip072x.u28	We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for this week's meetings. We must approve the agenda for this week's sittings. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Wednesday, October 14, 2015 at 10.00 a.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Wednesday 14 October 2015 at 10 a.m.
