ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic256x.u1	Madam President, Minister, for the first time you have decided to pay for the provision of military infrastructure as part of the Great Cold Plan. In Liège, Defence generally provided, free of charge, a 30-bed alternative shelter at the St. Lawrence barracks. From now on, charges will be charged for the reception of homeless persons in emergency situations: specific cost for the rental of military premises; specific cost for the provision of blankets, sheets and pillows; specific cost for snacks which, until now, were automatically provided for. For the Socialist Group, this is an incomprehensible decision. After the federal difficulties in receiving asylum seekers, where your department has not been mobilised, it must be noted that aid to the Nation is becoming paid today. My group has always strongly supported the principle of aid to the Nation, which must be an essential mission of our army. National Defence's priority is, and must remain, our country's international operationality. However, when Defence does not use its personnel, equipment and infrastructure for its missions or the preparation of them, it must maximize them to the benefit of civil society when the need arises. We can point out that the number of missions abroad is particularly low at the moment, so the army is available for its civilian missions. Minister, can you explain why this mission to assist the Nation is being called into question as part of the 2015-2016 Great Cold Plan, while National Defence has always shown its availability free of charge? Is this no longer a priority for you? What exactly are the services that will be billed by your department in this context and under what conditions? What savings or revenues do you expect to make? What will be the budgetary impact of this unilateral decision for municipalities and CPAS which are also in a difficult situation? Does this decision apply to all military infrastructure in the territory?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic256x.u2	Madam President, Mr Demeyer, Operation Winter started in 2004 to provide support to CPAS for the reception of homeless people during the winter months and to prevent the acute lack of capacity of local authorities. Since then, Defence has made military quarters available to various CPAS. It does not question the 2015-2016 Grand Cold Plan, but you should know that this service has never been free. Some services such as cleaning and repairs to the buildings made available have always been paid for. The following services will therefore be charged: cleaning of sleeping effects, damage to the infrastructure of military premises and the net cost of snacks. These costs are estimated at around 7,000 euros. In the event that the Defence performs a task that is not part of its main tasks, that task must be compensated in a fair manner. The organizations concerned were warned of this change by the provincial military commands and adjusted their budgets. This decision applies to the whole of Belgium. With regard to the work carried out by the military for the benefit of refugees, I invite you to listen to the answer I will give to the question contained in item 16 of our agenda in which I will elaborate on the work we have done. Already know that 8,000 places are planned and that we have worked in support of the installation of tents and sanitary facilities. In doing so, it is an exaggeration to pretend that we have done nothing!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic256x.u3	Madam Chair, Minister, thank you for your answer. Minister, I did not say that nothing had been done, but that we could have done more. Still, I must admit that I am delighted with your answer. However, beyond the amounts mentioned, what concerns me is that aid to the Nation, which was a service of principle, is no longer considered with the same perspective. That is why I have decided to table, on behalf of my group, a motion in conclusion of the inquiry which has just been developed to ask you to maintain, for free of charge, both materially, humanly and logistically, the aids in cold times and to give the so-called tasks of aid to the Nation all the importance that must come to them, as part of the drafting of the strategic plan of the Belgian army.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic256x.u4	A motion of recommendation has been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic256x.u5	Madam President, may I speak briefly? For us, aid to the Nation means aid provided by the army in emergency situations, where the resources of the civilian authorities are inadequate. Free help to the OCMW of Liège or to another OCMW is under no circumstances help to the Nation. That's not normally a military task. I think the Minister has answered correctly. The exceptional circumstances in which the civil authorities can rely on Defence are determined by the government, which established a crisis centre in 2003 by royal decree. The aid offered by the Minister under the Winter Aid 2015-2016 plan is in line with the legislation on third party performances by the Defence Department, and is in this case against the minimum remuneration, given the particular circumstances of social assistance. I therefore assume that there is gratitude for the OCMW and for the interprelant, and I therefore propose that we ask the plenary to approve a simple motion and move on to the order of the day.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic256x.u6	In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Julie Fernandez Fernandez and MM. Stéphane Crusnière, Willy Demeyer and Sébastian Pirlot and read as follows: The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Mr. Willy Demeyer and the response of the Minister of Defence, in charge of the Public Service, asks the government - to maintain National Defence's material, human and logistical free participation in the Great Cold Plan in 2015-2016 and in the future in support of the requests made by the relevant civilian authorities; - within the framework of the drafting of the strategic plan of the Belgian army, to give the so-called tasks of Assistance to the Nation (in particular the Royal Military Hospital, rescue at sea, flood support, mine clearance,...) all the importance that must come back to them and to make it, in parallel with operations abroad, one of the main missions of Belgian Defence by forcefully recalling that, when the Defence does not use its personnel, equipment and infrastructure for its missions or the preparation of them, it must put them to the maximum and graceful service of the civilian authorities when they so request. A motion for a recommendation was tabled by Ms Julie Fernandez Fernandez and Mr Stéphane Crusnière, Mr Willy Demeyer and Mr Sébastian Pirlot as follows: The Chamber, President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: and the reply of the Minister for Defence, in charge of Staff cases, calls on the Government - maintain the free assistance of the Belgian army, both in terms of equipment and personnel and logistics, within the framework of the 2015-2016 Winter Emergency Plan and in the future, taking into account the requests made by the relevant civil authorities; - in the context of the preparation of the Belgian army's strategic plan for the so-called assistance tasks at the service of the Nation (e.g. Military Hospital, marine rescue operations, flood relief, the mining service) to attach the importance it deserves and, in addition to operations abroad, to make it one of the main tasks of the Defence Department, once again strongly stressing that, if Defence does not use its personnel, equipment or infrastructure for these tasks or for their preparation, it must make them available to the civilian authorities as much as possible and free of charge as they so request." A simple motion was tabled by Messrs. Peter Buysrogge, Tim Vandenput et Veli Yüksel. A simple motion was tabled by Mr Peter Buysrogge, Mr Tim Vandenput and Mr Veli Yüksel. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over. Ladies and gentlemen, a lot of questions have been tabled, of which the authors are not present at the moment. There are therefore a lot of committee meetings today. I suggest that we ask mixed questions, unless someone really wants to wait for a colleague. I shall put aside separate questions until the questioner is present. Can everyone agree to that?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic256x.u7	Madam President, last week I provided you with a list of questions which could possibly be converted into written questions. I am prepared to do so, provided, of course, that I receive those written answers today. If that is possible, those answers should no longer be explained orally today.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic256x.u8	Well, that's settled with this one. Mr Top's questions will be converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic256x.u9	Madam President, given the large number of questions I have asked, but also on the agenda, if the minister agrees, I would like to proceed in the same way as Mr.Top and have the written answer to the questions that I have not had time to ask, given the deadline. I'm not worried about that. On the other hand, some of my questions are several weeks old and may become obsolete because the situation is changing.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic256x.u10	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, on 4 July, in an interview in De Standaard, Mr Eddy Testelmans, Chief of the ADIV, stated that he wanted to modernise the ADIV by tapping fibre cables. In this way one can listen in with the communication that goes through the optical fiber optic cables, namely the Internet, telephone and e-mails. He proposes to tap both foreign and Belgian cables. He says that a lot of communication goes through these fibre cables and that Belgium urgently needs to invest in order not to become hopelessly obsolete. There is a lot of doubt and discussion about this in other countries. Governments cannot exercise the right to simply look at data from citizens, businesses and other organisations. Such techniques ensure that governments store billions of data daily from innocent citizens. Research also shows that once such techniques are used, there is an effective effect in which human behavior changes. When people realize that their data is always stored, they will insely behave less freely. This means a reduction in freedom for citizens. A second consideration of such techniques is that a retrospective investigation can be carried out when someone comes to the attention of the government. If a person poses a threat to society, intelligence services can be useful. The question is whether it is really necessary to be able to go back five to ten years in his or her data. In addition, it appears from other countries, with the United States in the lead, that such eavesdropping techniques are vaguely written down in a law or that the services simply try to circumvent that law. This also makes eavesdropping techniques a kind of cyber threat and a threat to privacy. Mr Minister, do you support the ADIV in its plans to tap data via fiber optic cables? If so, how do you intend to address the privacy problem?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic256x.u11	Madam President, Mr Top, allow me to give the answer as it has been prepared. A number of questions are being answered that you have not asked, but perhaps that will provide a little more clarity. Based on my previous responses, I do not think Lieutenant General Testelmans has made any controversial statements. Therefore, I am not considering sanctioning him. Furthermore, the General Intelligence and Security Service (SGRS) does not, for the time being, intercept communications passing through fibre optics in Belgium, even on an experimental basis. That is not what we are doing today. I do support the General Intelligence and Security Service in its plans to intercept data via fiber optic cables. I also refer to my policy statement of 27 November 2014, from which I quote the following: "ACOS-IS/ADIV will modernise. Work will be undertaken in 2015 to prepare for the acquisition of resources enabling intelligence and security operations within the contemporary communication spectrum." So it's about technical preparation of what's needed. The modern processes and techniques allow us to collect data discriminatoryly on fiber optic cables, and it is important to note that, contrary to what you said, the collection of data on fiber optic cables cannot be retroactive. So it's only real time. The conditions for the use of this technique are laid down in Article 44a et seq. of the Act of 30 November 1998 regulating the intelligence and security services. In addition, the law of 8 December 1992 on the protection of privacy continues to apply. Data collection should take into account the principles of proportionality and finality. Interception of fibre-optic communications is not synonymous with widespread surveillance. So it is not because we have the ability to monitor the cable that it is also immediately a massive collection of data. Moreover, the ADIV is not authorised to intercept communications, except in the context of its mission. The Committee I ensures parliamentary control and thus also ensures compliance with all legal provisions by the ADIV and the ACOS IS.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic256x.u12	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Your first sentence was perhaps an answer to Mr Hellings' question because my question was not to take action against the person who appeared in the press. As far as the question of retroactivity is concerned, my intervention is rather to focus attention on the fact that data, which, of course, can be traced back to the network, must also be effectively stored for the future. Examples from other countries indicate that data on and communication between different persons are kept in the long term. The point of my intervention is therefore rather to be able to retain data for the future. I understand, of course, that you refer to existing legislation, both on intelligence services and on privacy. It will be up to everyone in this committee and in the Committee I to follow these matters very closely so that everything goes in accordance with the legislation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic256x.u13	Madam President, Minister, you and your Foreign Affairs colleague mentioned a few weeks ago the possibility of military intervention in Syria. At the time, Minister Reynders recalled, as a prerequisite for intervention, the existence of a mandate of the UN Security Council. If my memory is good, you said you were prepared to consider a military intervention in Syria, explaining, however, that Belgian participation would require additional funding for your department. These statements echoed, it seems, those of CD&V President Wouter Beke, for whom a military intervention in Syria had to be taken into account in resolving the refugee crisis. He thus aligned himself with his counterpart of the Dutch CDA party, who had affirmed that the issue of the influx of Syrian refugees into Europe could only be resolved by intervening in Syria, possibly hiring Dutch ground troops. France, on the contrary, seems to completely rule out the idea of such a land intervention, considering it unrealistic. It is said to be turning an operation into an occupation force. For my group, the resolution adopted by the House in September 2014 on the situation in Iraq and Belgium's participation in the international coalition was in no way an indefinite blank-seing. It laid down a clear and precise framework, without ambiguity, which included all the conditions then required by the PS, such as full respect for international law, including a UN and humanitarian framework, a comprehensive solution, i.e. not exclusively military, and guaranteed and regular parliamentary involvement. These conditions remain indispensable prerequisites for our group. Mr Minister, what is the position of the Belgian government today on the question of possible Belgian participation in operations of the international coalition in Syria, knowing that the geopolitical environment is, to say the least, moving, as evidenced by the recent entry into the dance of Russia and Iran? What would then be the path envisaged by the government? Do you consider the option of a land operation on Syrian soil? Does the Belgian army have sufficient budgetary and material resources to consider such intervention? What additional budgetary means would your department need to conduct such an intervention? In what overall framework would such an intervention take place? I'm thinking of 3D, of course. Is this position the subject of concerted action within the European Union? Which other States, if any, would participate in such an international coalition? Has a request to that effect been made to your services? Do you make obtaining a UN framework an absolute requirement for such Belgian intervention? What is your position with regard to the Syrian regular army? On 26 September 2014, the House adopted a resolution clearly defining the framework for a Belgian military intervention. It was thus limited exclusively to Iraq and explicitly asked the government to continue to guarantee the House's involvement by consulting it again if new circumstances changed the duration, nature and scope of the Belgian commitment. Since then, despite a change in the nature of the operation, the government has refused to put the matter to a House vote. Since this resolution is not valid in such a case, do you intend to request a new vote in Parliament if you decide to intervene in Syrian territory? Moreover, with regard to Iraq, the parliamentary resolution called on the government to take comprehensive action, i.e. action that is not only military, but also diplomatic, financial, economic and socio-humanitarian, so that a lasting solution to the crisis could be found with a view to stabilizing the region in the long term. Can you tell us how you have coordinated within the government for this purpose and what actions have been taken with your colleagues?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic256x.u14	Minister, a few weeks ago, several voices were voiced in order to take military action against IS in Syria, in addition to the deployment of our F-16 Tunisians over Iraq. The battle scene in Syria is complicated and has different players. Meanwhile, Russia has also launched an offensive and seems to have started the final phase of the conflict. Minister, I would like to ask you the following questions. Did the government get an official request to participate in a coalition against IS in Syria? If so, what could be such participation? Under what mandate could this military intervention take place? In view of the current situation in which Russia has also launched an offensive, do you consider it appropriate to take military action on or above Syria's territory?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic256x.u15	Madam President, Minister, behind what has been agreed to be called the refugee crisis is a horrific war, which we see every day on television, and which has killed more than 250,000 people. Europe's ability to intervene politically and militarily to stop this conflict has left a gap for all sorts of actors, including Russia, with all but clear and pacific agendas. A few weeks ago, you made a statement that was in line with the statements that were being made, at that time, all over Europe. In the face of the influx of refugees, the idea had suddenly emerged that the war should be ended and that resources should be devoted to it. You mentioned the fact that Belgium could participate in this effort, both with land and air resources, as long as it is part of a coalition and strategy. Minister, what is the status of this idea? This war intensified and became even more cruel. It is known that the Russian bombings are indiscriminate: they are not aimed at the Islamic State but rather, in a privileged way, other targets so as to strengthen the regime of Bashar al-Assad. What are the Belgian and European strategies to finally stop this war, to ensure that people can be protected there? You talked about clear conditions. What are they? Do you intend to refer to Article 51 of the UN Charter or other legal provisions? Do you intend to operate on the ground and how? You indicated that we no longer have the means to carry out heavy operations and that these would be other types of operations. Can we imagine operations like those carried out by the Peshmergas with the Americans recently in Iraq to deliver civilian hostages to the Islamic State? Have any requests been made? By whom? What do you expect from tomorrow's Vienna Summit, which will see Saudi Arabia, the United States, Turkey and Russia come together to try to find a solution to this war?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic256x.u16	As regards questions on the Belgian position regarding the need for a UN mandate for military action in Syria and the position of Belgium within the coalition, I would ask you to address the Foreign Minister, Mr Reynders. I will provide further information on this in a moment. As far as the list of countries operating over Syria is concerned, I have to tell you that this is classified information. Unfortunately, I cannot make it public in this forum. To date, Belgian Defence has not yet been asked to participate in the operations of the international coalition in Syria. This means that each answer must be interpreted in the conditional wisdom, as there is no specific question. There is little point in philosophizing about that now. In general, Belgium prefers to act with a mandate of the UN Security Council. As for the European Union, it has not yet expressed its views on its possible role in ending hostilities and rebuilding the country. However, Defence is prepared to assess any requests made to it in light of the government's mandate and budget allocation. I would like to explain more about the rather philosophical interview that has been published in the press. In that I say that we will never solve the story with just a military approach and actions in the air. As always, therefore, I stand for a 3D approach called diplomacy, development and defence. The next question is: what can we contribute? There are a few options. If we are asked to provide ground troops, then we have to answer that we cannot help in the first line as we do not have the necessary equipment. We don't have that capacity anymore. There are always several phases to a conflict. If we are asked to help, perhaps we should answer that we are ready to make a valuable contribution in a next phase, namely stabilisation and reconstruction. In any case, I believe that our contribution should have added value. The Belgian position is very clear: we prefer a UN mandate. The question is, of course, whether there are other possibilities, because Russia has so far been obstructing. As regards the fight against IS in Syria, which is legally based on Article 51 of the United Nations Charter, namely Iraq's right to collective self-defense. You know Iraq has asked for help. At the Paris Conference on 15 September 2014, an international coalition was formed to help Iraq. So there is a coalition that defends Iraq and does collective defence by also being active in Syria. It is clear to everyone that, if we want to defeat IS, we will also have to defeat IS in Syria. This morning, behind closed doors in committee, I outlined a more comprehensive picture of the situation. The fact is that the supply lines of IS clearly run through Syria. IS can also count on support in Syria. So if we want to defeat IS in its entirety, we will also have to defeat IS in Syria. Are the countries that are operating today over Syria illegal today? I don't think so. They are entitled to invoke Article 51 of the Charter as well as international customary law in relation to individual self-defense.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic256x.u17	Minister, thank you for your answers. I think that some politicians – I am not aiming at you – would do well to avoid saying everything and anything, especially with regard to land-based intervention. In the analyses published notably in the French specialized press, the estimates are that a land intervention would mobilise 100,000 men, take at least a year and a half to eradicate Daesh from the territory and would cost at least 60 million euros a day. I wonder who would agree to pay such a sum.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic256x.u18	Mr President-in-Office of the Council, we have already received a great deal of answers from the committee with closed doors. I am referring to the delegation from the Peshmerga which we received yesterday. General Jafar stated that everyone hesitates and waits for UN mandates, and brought us a cry for help. He even begged to use our army's old weapons. He said that everyone is waiting for UN mandates, but that Syrian warriors from 50 different countries attack them, often in a very horrible way. They also have no mandate, they have a safe passage. I am not saying that we should engage without a mandate, but his plea prompted us to think. You are right to say that we can help in different ways and that we must certainly bet on the stabilisation period, including through train and assist. Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic256x.u19	I am still saddened by the fact that you were teaching us today that you were doing philosophy six weeks ago. I think that's exactly what philosopher Europe is about. Meanwhile, there are hundreds of deaths every day. There are outsiders who don't care about human life and who bomb indiscriminately, with agendas that are absolutely not agendas for the protection of the population, which are simply support for the regime, which are not aimed at the Islamic State. We have allies within NATO itself, such as Turkey, who today admit that they are bombing the Kurds, who are among the only ones, today, to welcome people of all origins and beliefs, people who have played an extremely important role of stability on the borders of Syria and Iraq. We continue to observe what is happening there, saying, "Well, here we are. We can't afford it. We don't have the capacity." Indeed, you do not have the capacity to do so. It is a sad fact that Europe no longer has the capacity to act on such a brutal, violent, cruel and long war. This war lasted as long as the Second World War lasted. So I think that at some point, when we say we are a humanist Europe, we still have to try to stop the madmen who have seized this space at the gates of Europe and try to stop this war. I think that's the first humanistic duty. Every time I met people from there, they said, "You know, give us cookies, give us bandages while I get bombs on my head, that's not what I'm asking for." I think we really need to keep an eye on him. As the Chair said, we received a delegation of high-ranking Peshmergas. Some of them, I saw them on the front line over there. They're people who moved around when they were besieged over there, calling for help. We've always received them with the same words for months and months, saying, "You're great guys, you're doing an amazing job." But we don't help them. We pretend to be their allies, but we are not their allies. They're doing the job for us. In particular, they do the work of securing our own populations because they fight people who leave here and who will harass and assassinate people there, and then come back here to carry out attacks. One day, we still have to take seriously the role and responsibility we should play there. I am extremely disappointed to learn that in the end, it was simply a page of philosophy that you wrote six weeks ago. You talked about "political philosophy." These are the terms you used. At least that's the translation I've been given. It's your expression I'm just taking over. I think it's time to stop philosophizing on this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic256x.u20	Mr Dallemagne, I beg your pardon, but I think you're being rather derogatory about what I call philosophic philosophic philosophies. Then just call it thinking through. Don't get me wrong. Ik heb gezegd: I regret that Europe has no ideas, that Europe has not yet positioned itself, and thistera. I'm sorry. Are we ready to make the contribution we can make? Yes. I will be the first to see what we can do when the question is asked. But you must also realize that there are limitations for the Defense Department. When we talk about international defence, I do not agree with you when you say that Europe is no longer capable of doing what needs to be done. That's right! There are other countries within Europe that do have the means to carry out the first attack. The fact is that we must agree with 28 countries in order to intervene effectively. Of course, that's a bit harder. The fact that Russia and Turkey have now become involved, each with their agenda, makes it even more difficult. So I simply ask you the military question: if we intervene in Syria, who will be our local ally in the fight to stop that war? I don't know today. I don't have an answer to that. It can't be Assad.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic256x.u21	We received one yesterday in the Defence Committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic256x.u22	Today we have no idea exactly who the moderate troops are. We can indeed acknowledge the Peshmerga. But I do not think it is a long-term solution to allow the Peshmerga to take over all of Syria. Let us be honest about that, too.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic256x.u23	Mr Minister, I am of course right about the fact that some countries have that capacity. It's not you that I'm targeting, it's your Foreign Affairs colleague. I note that, in this case, as in others, we are taking a follow-up attitude. We are not taking enough initiatives to resolve issues critical to our security. We're waiting to see how the wind turns. Six weeks ago, he was shooting in one direction and, today, in another. We're going back. It is time for us to develop more serious plans to find out how we are going to stop this conflict. We are lucky to have the Peshmergas, who have welcomed two million people. If they had not been there, they would be on their way to Europe. With the Kurds and, unfortunately, the United States, they saved Kobane. No one else - in any case, not Europeans. We have been making this observation for several months. Now we have to move forward. I am glad – and this is the only good news – that you consider that those who intervene in Syria do so on a legal and legitimate basis. It is important to be able to fit into this framework.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic256x.u24	Mr Minister, in a debate between me and Mr Ducarme on The First on 1 July last, Mr Ducarme said, with regard to the replacement of the F-16s and the nuclear weapon: "Mr Hellings does not have a sufficiently broad view of the dossier because it is not necessarily assumed that it would be the replacement of the F-16 that would carry nuclear charges if he were to carry them. There are also other possibilities in terms of extending a number of F-16s that are on the table." This surprising exit suggests that the majority visibly decided to keep the illegal parking of the B-61 bombs in Kleine-Brogel. But, therefore, the question also arises of the opportunity to replace our current F-16s with new planes, knowing that to carry atomic bombs, our old aircraft would still be perfectly functional! Minister, is Defence currently analyzing the possibility of extending the lives of the current F-16s, to carry the American B-61 bombs or not? Is Defence aware of a precedent in the world for an army that has modernized its bomber fighters of this age? If so, which countries for which devices? Otherwise, is it wise to have a weapon of mass destruction carried by an aircraft so far considered to be obsolete, justifying the decision taken by the government at the beginning of the legislature to replace the F-16s?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic256x.u25	Minister, I have often asked you about the nuclear capacity of future F-16 replacements and their involvement in the number of competitors that could then remain in competition. Indeed, there is every reason to believe that we would then face a non-choice, since only the F-35 would be able to meet this possible criterion. Dassault has already announced that he would withdraw the Rafale from the race if this ability to take the B-61/B-61-12s was retained, as the competition no longer made any sense in his view. It would seem, however, that there is another option, which would be to retain a smaller number of F-16s in the longer term, which would then be assigned to this "nuclear mission" alone. This is in any case what Germany seems to have decided to do on its side, since, on the one hand, its choice was on the Eurofighter who cannot transport the American nuclear bombs and, on the other hand, it would maintain some former Tornado to assume the nuclear missions. Can I confirm this information? Is this the option chosen by Germany? Above all, could such a scheme be transposed in Belgium - which would allow for a real choice in replacing the F-16? Can you indicate whether the option I have described is technically feasible? Could a reduced number of F-16s be maintained and the service life of these devices extended by specific modernization? F-16s would in some way be moved and would be less used for other types of missions? Could they then coexist within the air force with their future successors, whatever they may be? Could we imagine continuing to entrust sensitive missions – as is the case with nuclear bombs – to old aging aircraft which, however, has or will have to be replaced in general within the air force?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic256x.u26	Madam Chair, gentlemen, thank you for your questions. Firstly, I would like to say, Mr Hellings, as regards what you said in your introduction, that I do not feel responsible for what a Member has said. I am not going to defend myself for things that are said in plenary. Mr Dallemagne, I want to confirm once again, as I have already done a dozen times in this committee, that, with regard to the replacement of the F-16s, none of the current candidates is capable of carrying nuclear weapons. They're all on the same line, there's no difference between them. Not one is confirmed as capable of carrying nuclear weapons. Having said that, for the answer to your questions, I refer you to my answer to the Parliamentary Written Question No 165 of 4 March 2015 by Mrs Karolien Grosemans, which you will find on page 282 of the Bulletin of Written Questions and Answers No 54/019 of 7 April 2015.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic256x.u27	Minister, I read our President's prose with great pleasure and I knew that answer. However, there is a new element. A member of the majority, of course you are not responsible for, has publicly opposed me, on radio, an important argument. Apart from saying that I don't know anything about it – but he has become accustomed to it – he says that there is on the table of the majority a project to extend the F-16, which is not trivial. This is not a strategic one. Wearing nuclear bombs in the light of the debate you have just had on the situation in Iraq and Syria does not change anything. That the F-16 or its potential replacement can continue to carry nuclear bombs will not change the ability to resolve current conflicts! It's a weapon of the past. On the other hand, from a budgetary and political point of view, of course, the survey that we talked about last year did not mention the nuclear load, but if de facto the F-16 replacement aircraft have to carry the nuclear load, it must appear in the specifications that you are going to present to us within a few months, perhaps after the presentation of the Defence Plan that we are looking forward to. If the specifications do not mention nuclear weapons and de facto it is an absolute hidden need of Defence, we will have a problem. We are talking about five to six billion investments, but there are precedents of military markets that have run out because there were hidden clauses. This must not happen again. This hidden clause does not serve Belgium's strategic interests.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic256x.u28	Minister, I have a simple question. Is it possible to keep a small number of F-16s alongside new aircraft, regardless of mission? That's my central question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic256x.u29	As I told Mr. Hellings, I'm not responsible for...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic256x.u30	I simply ask you to answer yes or no.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic256x.u31	I am sticking to the government agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic256x.u32	If I understand correctly, that means no, since the government agreement specifies that the F-16s will have to be replaced. So you won't keep a limited number of F-16s. One could imagine doing as in other countries: having an aerial fleet of hunting and bombing with two types of aircraft that coexist but apparently this is not the option you retain.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic256x.u33	It will be a decision of the government. As Minister of Defence, I stand by the government agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic256x.u34	So I understand it's no. The government agreement says the F-16s will be replaced. It's an important shade. If I may say so, you have responded very accurately to the technical plan. For the time being, the F-35s do not yet have the technological developments. But that wasn't my question, which was, you might think, a little more strategic and political. It is well known that the Americans will not transfer the keys that will enable their nuclear bombs to be activated to other types of aircraft, whether they are allies or not. In reality, it is probably the only type of aircraft for which this technological development is imagined. It is very likely that the Americans are working on these developments.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic256x.u35	Mr Dallemagne, I would like to mention that the Tornado is a European apparatus. In the past, this has happened.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic256x.u36	Do you then think that this is possible for European technologies tomorrow? Yes, you certainly do! I know you well!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic256x.u37	I think a lot, but I'm just saying that the Tornado is a European apparatus.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic256x.u38	You're right, and I wanted to hear you say it. So for you, it's quite possible to negotiate.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic256x.u39	I can imagine anything. We'll see in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic256x.u40	For you, this door is open and it does not skew the call for tenders.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic256x.u41	Mr Minister, aircraft and military from six NATO bases with nuclear capacity train in Germany on the use of nuclear weapons. Also Kleine Brogel participates in this. The annual exercise Steadfast Noon brings together those NATO air force units capable of using nuclear weapons. This year the exercise continues on the German base of Büchel. Germany, the Netherlands, Italy, Turkey, the United States and our own country would participate. I would like to refer to a passage from last year's coalition agreement: "The government endorses all credible and targeted efforts, preferably in a European context, to ensure effective and balanced disarmament in the world, both in the nuclear and conventional fields." Can the Minister confirm that NATO exercise Steadfast Noon was organised from 12 to 17 October and that Belgian soldiers cooperated in this? How many Belgian F-16 people participated in this operation? How many Belgian soldiers participated? How can this exercise, aimed at the transfer, loading and unloading of nuclear weapons, be consistent with the passage in the coalition agreement? Preparing for the deployment of nuclear weapons is contrary to international humanitarian law. For example, on 18 July 1996, the International Court of Justice considered such exercises totally unacceptable. Nuclear weapons cannot distinguish between civilians and military, so the use of tactical weapons must be described as a war crime. How can we reconcile our participation with these rulings of the International Court of Justice? Do you consider this perhaps pricey but unnecessary exercise to be justified in the current tight budgetary times? What price tag is attached to this exercise? On what scenarios are there practiced and what is the precise role of the Belgian Air Force in this exercise?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic256x.u42	Mr Top, NATO frequently organises international exercises aimed at strengthening and optimising the standardisation of flight procedures and interoperability between air force units. I therefore confirm that the Belgian air component also took part in the NATO exercise Steadfast Noon this year, with F-16 pcs of the 10th Wing Tac, together with the Netherlands, Germany, Italy and the United States. I think your data is correct. During that annual exercise, complex flight operations are trained by multinational formations of different types of aircraft. As with other exercises, no details are released about the tactical execution and specific assignments of the different participants. The participation in that exercise fits within the annual training budget, so you don't have to worry about that. Belgium shares with many countries the vision of a world without nuclear weapons. Until the right conditions have been created to allow the worldwide elimination of nuclear weapons, NATO remains a nuclear alliance with a well-protected, safe and efficient deterrent capability. In 2010, the Di Rupo Government, of which you were a member, agreed to the new NATO Strategic Concept, which contains that general picture. In addition, in the context of non-proliferation, and in consultation with NATO partners, our country is actively participating in the development of initiatives that create the right conditions for further reductions in nuclear weapons. This is in line with the coalition agreement, which states that nuclear disarmament and non-proliferation must be carried out in a realistic and pragmatic manner, with the NATO Strategic Concept and the Non-Proliferation Treaty as the main guiding principles.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic256x.u43	Thank you, Minister, I did not know that I was part of the Di Rupo government myself. I know about this now, too. My answer is twofold. Firstly, if we insert a passage in a coalition agreement confirming efforts to remove and dismantle nuclear weapons, then we must also take the first steps to this end. You have pointed out that this is an annual exercise. The previous governments will therefore have given their approval for these exercises. But you cannot continue to shirk your responsibility by saying that other people have done so, and others have done so. Now you are at the helm and you are responsible for the policy. I see nothing but that you will continue to carry out these matters yourself. Your passage is nothing but a tissue for bleeding. Secondly, I shouldn't worry about the budget. It may well be that this exercise is included in the budget, but I am concerned when I hear all the signals from military and other people about the lack of the strategic note and the strategic vision. Then it is not just about the commitment to this exercise, but about the total deployment of our defence capabilities for our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic256x.u44	Madam President, Minister, in July, Lands defense bought some 40 smart vests from the Dutch defence company Thales. Thales works together with the Israeli company Elbit. Elbit Systems is involved in the Israeli occupation in several ways. The company developed detection technology for the wall and also provides surveillance technology for the settlements through its subsidiaries. The company is mainly known for the development of drones. It produces and supplies the most important attack drone for the Israeli army. Elbit responded, among other things, to a number of project applications under the European Horizon 2020 programme. Horizon 2020 finances research projects limited to civilian applications. When defence companies participate in such research projects, it is of course conceivable that the results will also be used for military applications. In the European Parliament, 73 Members have already called, across the various political groups, to stop financial support for Elbit. For our investments, too, it is actually contradictory with our values that we indirectly support such a company. In total, the Dutch Defence signed a $150 million contract for smart vests in the Benelux. This contract runs over a five-year term and appoints Elbit Systems as the main contractor with the Dutch company Thales as the sub-contract holder. I would have liked an answer to the following two questions. Are you aware of the link between our Belgian smart vests and the company Elbit? How did the award happen? Were any other partners considered?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic256x.u45	Madam President, Mr Top, first of all I would like to refer to my answer to oral question No. 4446 of 19 May 2015 of the Chair of this Committee. That answer can be found on page 31 of document No. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. However, I will add a few words to this answer. In implementation of the existing Benelux Framework Agreement between the Ministers of Defence, an implementation agreement was signed with the Netherlands and Luxembourg on 6 April 2011, whereby the Netherlands was designated as a single contracting nation for a joint purchase of smart vests. So the Netherlands is the leading nation here. In December 2011, the Dutch Defence Department in that role of single contracting nation sent a bid request to ten potential manufacturers. After evaluation of the tenders, Sagem, Elbit and Cassidian, currently Airbus, were selected as preferred biders and asked to provide pilot models. On the basis of the tenders and the tests carried out with the pilot models, a technical-operational and logistical evaluation was carried out. In May 2014, Elbit was selected as the preferred supplier. Actually, there is still a trial of a rejected supplier against the Netherlands, but this will not affect the result. The contract was awarded by the Dutch military on July 1st of this year to Elbit, with respect for the procedures and controls in force in the Netherlands as is the case in each EU country for public procurement, including a note from the Minister of Defence to the Second Chamber on June 4th 2015 that did not affect the signature of the contract. I would also point out that Belgian companies are involved in this project and can supply goods as subcontractors. So let me be very clear. The Netherlands has the lead and applies its rules. We are participating in a Benelux programme implemented by the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic256x.u46	Thank you for the answer. I'm just giving you my reservations. Of course you refer to the Netherlands as the leading partner. Of course, others were also referred to as preferred prayers. However, I remain hungry in terms of values. You refer to Dutch legislation, the usual standards that are in line with European law. However, I must express my indignation at the fact that values have not been taken into account in drawing up the specifications, in the sense that they are an Israeli company, the settlements and the matters I have just mentioned in my introduction. It continues to give me a bitter feeling when such manufacturers are allowed to make an offer for this. I would like to include the reference to other Belgian companies as subcontractors, but that would probably have been no different from other suppliers. In this regard, it cannot be a condition or a bonus for those Belgian companies or the Belgian economy. It's a missed opportunity. One could have sent a clear signal to Israel and the company that the things they carry out in the settlements are actually rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic256x.u47	I do not know if it will make much impression, but I will inform my Dutch colleague.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic256x.u48	Questions Nos 5932 and 5933 by Mr Top are converted into written questions. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Lijnen's 5937 will also be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic256x.u49	Madam President, Minister, in the current security situation and in the face of the increasing threats, strong responses must be given in the short and long term. It has been a long time since my group called on the government to provide intelligence services with the necessary financial and human resources, including the SRMS. Major statements – these are not yours – aimed at abolishing rights and freedoms for all citizens are a false solution, which will not diminish the terrorist threat or increase the security of citizens. It is in this sense that we remember the worrying statements by Eddy Testelmans at the beginning of the year that military services were already in survival mode this year with no investment and a 10 per cent loss of personnel within five years. However, we have just learned that the State Security will reorganize its external service to focus as never before on the threats of radicals and terrorists. The service will also recruit an additional 40 officers, which is good news. Minister, as part of this reorganisation of the Security and the focus on the fight against terrorism, how do the relationship between the Security and the SMS structure? Do they have to evolve? In the fight against terrorism, what exactly is the division of labour between these two bodies in order to foster synergies? In this context, do you also intend to increase the material and human resources of the SGRS, who is in dire need of it? Do you also intend to reorganize it and refocus its missions?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic256x.u50	Mr Pirlot, since 2004, the General Intelligence and Security Service and State Security have concluded a memorandum of understanding. This includes intensive cooperation in the fight against terrorism. This cooperation shall be evaluated annually in the presence of the respective supervisory ministers. On the basis of the current government agreement, a platform was set up according to the directives of the National Security Council in order to optimize cooperation between the services. The SGRS emphasizes the phenomenon of terrorism abroad by paying specific attention to the impact on internal security. Within this framework, Defence provides technical support to the State Security, the Federal Police and the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office. The current and future security environment requires a modern intelligence service, organized and equipped to secure national interests, as well as to support military defence operations. The SGRS develops this structure according to the directives I send to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic256x.u51	As my colleague Mrs Fernandez Fernandez was not there, she asked me if I could read in her place the question she had asked, so that everything would be complete. Is that a problem if I read his question in his place? There were two parts.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic256x.u52	You may read Mrs Fernandez Fernandez's question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic256x.u53	Minister, the months go by and the government's goal of a strategic plan for National Defence still seems to be distant and in contradiction with the original timetable. Before Easter, after Easter, before the summer holidays, after the summer holidays... We are soon at Toussaint. Even if I'm very secular, I'd say that, like Sister Anne, I still don't see anything coming. Yet, a few weeks ago, you asked some 31,000 staff members in your department to "still show patience" before the announcement of concrete measures related to this 15-year strategic plan. The government has also mandated you to write, after the holidays, – through a General Policy Working Group (PGWG) – different budget scenarios for the future of Defence, in accordance with the government agreement. However, according to the press, the work seems to be rolling, especially in terms of budget, despite eight GTPG meetings. As we know, you have indicated that you want your budget to be stabilised, although this is unlikely to be the case during this Parliament. Indeed, the means available to you were planed as soon as the government took office in October 2014, rising to €2.1 billion (or 0.48% of GDP) in 2019. I would therefore like to ask you, Minister, the following questions. After months when I ask you about the timing of this strategic plan, and the summer holidays that have now expired, can you finally make it clear when it will be officially published? How are the GTPG's work moving forward? What does the government mean by writing different "budgetary scenarios"? During the holidays, you reiterated your statements about your ultimate goal: to increase the defence budget by 2030, despite cuts made by this government. What about these budgetary ambitions within the strategic plan? Will they be clearly quantified, or will they simply be declarations of intent? Will there be a debate on this matter in the House? If so, will it be pre- or post-government? In addition to the work of the GTPG, is there wider consultation, particularly with the social partners, on this subject? Thank you for your answers. I give you an immediate reading of my colleague's speech... but here it is! That won't make me have to imitate him.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic256x.u54	Minister, it has been months since the PS Group and other colleagues spoke to you in connection with the drafting of your future strategic plan under the government agreement and on which the House has so far received no official information. As the months passed and the leaks multiplied, you promised the military that they had to trust you alone and that you would keep them informed. It must be noted that this patience has more than understandable limits. A few weeks ago, the four representative trade union organisations interrupted the High Committee meeting with your cabinet in order to protest against the lack of information on the future strategic plan. Minister, how do you explain this clash between your office and the defence trade union organizations, when they have always been constructive in this work as demonstrated by the hearings in the House? What are the "personal and organizational aspects" that will be reformed as part of your strategic plan? How do you understand that you have postponed the promotion committees to an unknown date? What commitments do you intend to make to your staff and their union representatives in order to bring about social peace in your department, where, it should be recalled, consultation and good management of human resources must be a priority?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic256x.u55	Mr. Minister, the least we can say is that you have not kept your promises on schedule on this strategic plan. You made several promises at different times that we would have this strategic plan. All this is neither very reasonable nor very serious in the international context we know. This worries both the unions, the military hierarchy and our allies. The fact that Belgium, since the previous government has been in day-to-day business so far, still has no clear budgetary direction, strategically, in terms of its ability to intervene externally, is not responsible in the current context. It seems unacceptable to me that after so many months, you are still not in a position to present to Parliament a clear strategic note for defence. What you are busy writing appears increasingly to be the strategic note of the future government, given the time it takes to draft it. I would like to know whether the reality and budgetary constraints will ultimately allow you to have a clear direction and budget under this government and whether you are busy drafting the strategic note for the future government.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic256x.u56	Mr Minister, since my fellow Members are also asking questions on the same subject, I would just like to refer to a press release by ACOD Defence on 23 October on the absence of the strategic plan for defence. The strategic plan has been postponed several times, but according to your most recent statements about the plan, the impact would follow shortly after the summer recess. At the committee meeting on 22 April, you said: "I will present a long-term strategic vision to the government, which will allow a strategic plan to be drawn up before the summer holidays and an implementation plan to be drawn up by September. During the committee meeting on 27 May, you reiterated this timing: During the nuclear cabinet of 8 May, the analysis of the Belgian safety environment was approved until 2030. This is the basis for the strategic plan. The plan is planned, as foreseen, by the summer recess in terms of strategic choices. The effect will be after the recess, as has already been reported many times. I would like to have an answer to the following questions, Minister. In the meantime, the September deadline is well over again. What exactly is the state of play in the file? Was the long-term strategic vision, which was foreseen for the recess, already approved by the government or is it still on the table? Have a concrete implementation plan or plans already been proposed to your fellow Members? What's the new timing for the plan? Finally, at what times have the social partners been consulted on the long-term vision in recent months?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic256x.u57	Debates of the European Parliament Mr De Vriendt (Commission); Mr De Vriendt; Mr De Vriendt; Mr De Vriendt; Mr De Vriendt; Mr De
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic256x.u58	Madam President, the government is working hard to finalize the Defence Strategic Plan, which will determine the way forward until 2030. To be very clear, Mr Top, I said that after the Easter recess I would propose a strategic vision to the government. I did. It goes without saying that, in the current budgetary context, the necessary recapitalisation of Defence to enable it to evolve in a mutually supportive and balanced manner in a European and transatlantic security environment is a particularly complex exercise. Different fiscal and capacity scenarios – depending on an overall envelope calculated from a certain percentage of GDP – serve as the basis for the work of the policy technical cluster, whose mission is to prepare the decisions to be taken by the government. The strategic plan is a government project. Its publication will follow the conclusion of the agreement. I have said it a number of times and I shall repeat it again, because it does not seem to be understood correctly: it is a project of the government and there will only be one plan when the government has agreed to it. The Chamber will be informed as soon as a decision has been taken. The 2016 budget was drawn up to ensure operational commitment next year. Once the strategic plan has been approved by the government, it will be able to guide the budget for the coming years. It goes without saying that implementation of the plan will require close coordination with different stakeholders, including the social partners, but also NATO and the EU, including Member States. From the start of my ministry, I have met the social partners on a regular basis to inform them about the progress of the work on the strategic plan. At the same time, I also had several meetings with our partners from NATO and the EU, both bilaterally and in multilateral fora. With regard to the promotion committees, it was communicated in July that they would take place in 2016. Be aware that I attach great importance to social dialogue. It should be borne in mind that this is not a clash between my cabinet and the social partners, but that there has been a signal to the Defence Staff. I also clearly perceived the signal given on September 18 and met with the trade union organizations on October 6. This meeting was satisfactory for those present. The representative of CGSP even said that he was extremely pleased to have had this meeting. This meeting was followed by a negotiation on the actions we are going to take together in some 20 cases. As far as the Consultation Committee is concerned, the negotiations have been restarted.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic256x.u59	Madam Chair, Minister, pleasure comes from waiting. However, sometimes, the partner gets so bored by waiting, that in the end he falls asleep.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic256x.u60	Madam Chair, Minister, I am pleased that things are getting better. However, since the filing of my question – the date of the filing of this question proves, moreover, that parliamentarians do not take three months of leave – the CGSP has issued a communiqué. In any case, you will understand that with my group, I was moved by the situation. However, it is time for the strategic plan to be communicated to us. There are many leaks of information. It is a question of cuts, reduction of training, etc. We saw it earlier when it came to aid to the Nation. Still, I can understand that in uncertainty, minds can warm up, so I can only ask for information about the strategic plan to be communicated as quickly as possible. Finally, I am pleased that your relations with trade union organisations are on the right track.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic256x.u61	Minister, can you give us a date?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic256x.u62	A decision will be made once the government has made a decision on the matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic256x.u63	Minister, I am sorry to insist on this, I do not want to be unpleasant, but let me tell you that you have eaten your promise. The latter, however, is black on white in last year's October government agreement. In keeping with the terms of this agreement, the Minister of Defence will propose a long-term strategic vision to the government within six months so that the necessary decisions can be made for the overall budget framework, staffing, career and capabilities. In particular, the infrastructure, the degree of occupation, the recruitment, the geographical distribution, the rationalisation of the staffs will be dealt with... We are far from all this. This government agreement has therefore not been implemented. You have not fulfilled this commitment. And in the meantime, you've made intermediate promises. In fact, there is now only one document, namely the one on the safety environment in which one has to evolve. The big problem is that you systematically refuse to answer questions in Parliament because you believe that they are part of this strategic plan, whether for barracks, staff or equipment. In doing so, Parliament is unable to exercise its oversight role over the government. You refer each time to the strategic plan whose date of publication is not even known.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic256x.u64	Mr Dallemagne, you are asking me questions about the future. In this case, there is no question of exercising your control role since there is nothing to control!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic256x.u65	Minister, no decision has been made here. But Parliament deplores the lack of political direction in the field of defence.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic256x.u66	There are fifty-two items on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic256x.u67	Minister, count the number of issues for which you are referring to the strategic plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic256x.u68	Mr President, first of all I would like to refer to the speech of my fellow Members. Mr Fernandez Fernandez, with his current savings and his current budget, the Minister probably cannot buy enough mop to clean up all these leaks. I would also like to refer to Mr Dallemagne's speech, which refers to the coalition agreement, which stated in October that a strategic vision had to be drawn up within six months. That exercise is still not over. Mr Minister, I simply note, and this is the conclusion of the whole matter, that you belong to a government whose other partners seem to disagree with the strategic vision you have put forward today in the government's lap. That's the only conclusion I can draw from this.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic256x.u69	Madam President, Minister, I would like to ask you about the future replacement of A962 Belgica, whose current crew consists of fifteen civilian scientists and fifteen military personnel from the Marine component. This ship performs several essential tasks such as ensuring the quality of seawater and various scientific missions in the North Sea. In the newspaper Le Soir on July 13, I was able to read that the Belgica would no longer be operational for 2019. Safety on this vessel could no longer be guaranteed after this period. With 175 days and 105 nights spent at sea each year, salt-laden air causes insidious corrosion. From the hull to the deck, the rust gradually nibbles the Belgica which was put into service in October 1984. The cost of a new vessel would be over EUR 54 million. If you manage this case in cooperation with Mrs Sleurs, Secretary of State for Scientific Policy, I would like to ask you about the defence aspects of this case. What is the current involvement of National Defence in the Belgica from a human, technical, logistical, budgetary and mission perspective? In a previous press article in 2009, I read that the Federal Science Policy commissioned a feasibility study to know the various options to replace Belgica. According to the results, the only option is the construction of a new oceanographic research vessel. What is the government's position on this issue? What would be your department's budgetary involvement if the option of building a new ship were to be taken? What would be the timetable for a possible replacement? In the meantime, does Defence contribute to the budget necessary for the maintenance of this vessel?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic256x.u70	Madam President, Mrs Fernandez Fernandez, on the basis of a 1995 agreement with the Minister responsible for Scientific Policy, the Marine component ensures the condition and implementation of the Belgica vessel, entirely outside the Defence budget. The Navy provides the crew and is responsible for maintenance and repairs. As regards the construction of a new oceanographic research vessel and its possible budgetary implications if this option were to be taken, I invite you to contact my colleague Mrs Sleurs, Secretary of State for Scientific Policy, who is responsible for this matter. That is not within my jurisdiction. Defence does not intervene financially for the Belgica research vessel, nor for its implementation, nor for its replacement. Like other institutions, Defence uses this ship and scientists' expertise from time to time to conduct studies for us. Currently, three research programmes are under way in the field of mine clearance. All details of these programmes are available on the website of the RV (research vessel) Belgica under the numbers 2015/17, 2015/18 and 2015/19. It is clear that the specific costs arising from the execution of the experiments are the responsibility of Defence, as is the case with other users. Apart from Belgica, collaboration with the Scientific Policy allows Defence to participate in the meetings of the Board of Directors of the European Space Agency's Space Monitoring Programme and in the International Military Satellite Programme Optical Space Component, successor to the Helios 2 system. Conversely, Belspo appealed to Defence, including the Royal Military School, for studies. This is currently the case for two studies under the Interuniversity Attraction Programme and two other studies under the Belgian Research Action Through Interdisciplinary Networks (BRAIN-be). All details are available on the Belspo website.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic256x.u71	Thank you, Minister, for your answers. You say it's out of budget, but the crew and interviews that are being conducted are being taken from the Defence budget. So it's not completely out of budget.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic256x.u72	No. It's not my responsibility.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic256x.u73	Indirectly, it's still on your budget, since you're making staff available.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic256x.u74	Yes, but it's in support of Science Policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic256x.u75	Okay, I'm going to question Mrs. Sleurs on the subject. In any case, you must demonstrate to me the usefulness of this ship and of all the missions to which it can contribute, in Defence and in other areas as well, I suppose.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic256x.u76	Mr. President, Minister, as we know, the fight against insurance in current or future military personnel is an important work, particularly in terms of prevention, carried out by your human resources services and the Royal Military Hospital. It was through the press that I learned that, in the course of the medical tests aimed at ensuring the fitness of its future recruits before the training, for the year of recruitment 2014, 7.29% of the applicants (369) were dismissed because they had used drugs. This represents almost one in fourteen people. If applicants are recognized as positive for the use of narcotics, they receive temporary medical incapacity. After a minimum of three months, they can take part in the selection tests and if they are tested positive again, they are declared permanently unfit. Minister, my questions relate to the prevention and assistance of future members and members involved in insurance. In the case of new army recruits, what policy of prevention and accompaniment is in place by your department? In the period between the temporary incapacity for drug-positive results and the new screening test, are these people accompanied by the army? How does this policy of prevention and support take place within the army? How have the army and its Royal Military Hospital adapted to the evolution of the insurgency of certain personnel? What is the procedure followed for serving members when they are tested positive?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic256x.u77	Madam, as part of the recruitment process, Defence is raising awareness of drug issues among applicants. This awareness of the drug policy within Defence takes place during the first contact at the information centre. The Defence does not provide for specific support if an applicant is shown to be temporarily unfit because of positive results in one of the narcotic tests, because the applicant is not yet a member of the Defence staff. This applicant can represent himself after three months. It will be declared fit provided that the screening tests demonstrate that it has no longer used illegal products. Defence has zero tolerance for illegal drugs because of the specific nature of the military profession. Indeed, many military personnel perform security functions incompatible with drug use. Defence's drug policy with respect to its personnel consists of three components. First of all, prevention. Secondly, repression and, finally, treatment and medical accompaniment. Prevention is organized at three levels. First, by raising awareness among all members of the military from the basic training. Secondly, at the executive level, special training sessions are held primarily to teach managers how to recognize drug and alcohol use and how to react. Third, at the individual level, by the possibility of an individualised interview to obtain information. The Addictions Unit of the Well-Being Department of Staff plays an important role in this area. It organises awareness-raising and training activities. It disseminates information through the intranet as well as articles in various brochures. It also provides a point of contact for staff. With regard to repression, both the use and possession, distribution or sale of illegal drugs are prohibited. Depending on the circumstances and the gravity of the facts, sanctions are imposed up to the final withdrawal of employment. In very strict circumstances, a second chance may be granted to the person concerned. A staff member may, on his or her own initiative, request assistance. In this case, the treatment takes place in the strictest confidentiality of the physician-patient or psychologist-patient relationship.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic256x.u78	Minister, on 21 August the first three NH90 naval helicopters were declared operational in Koksijde. Those planes have to follow the Sea Kings for rescue operations at sea, among other things. For now, they will be deployed together. Two weeks out of three, the NH90s have to be ready, the third week it's the Sea King's turn. Depending on the source, that scheme will apply for at least one year until the end of 2017 or until the end of 2018. In any case, the Sea King remains in service much longer than originally foreseen. In order to ensure the operationality of the fleet until the end of 2015, vital parts were purchased in 2012, a main rotor was overhauled in 2013 and some small parts were restored or purchased. At least how long will the Sea King have to be operational? What additional measures will be needed to ensure this operationality? What budget is foreseen for this? When is the delivery of the fourth and last Navy version NH90 expected? Defense has been flying the NH90 in practice longer than it is today. How does the DOD experience the NH90's performance so far? Does the DOD have any idea of the operating costs of the NH90, the cost per hour of flight? Is it true that the NH90 dynamometers are sprayed after use to prevent corrosion? If so, then there is a childhood disease that has so far been found only in older models in neighbouring countries, namely the fact that the devices are not resistant to sea salt.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic256x.u79	The plan is indeed to keep a number of Sea Kings operational until the end of 2018. In order to make this possible, it was first necessary in 2015 to carry out a number of additional preventive inspections on some components, such as engines, in order to ensure security of availability. As long as the Sea King remains in service, the existing support contracts must remain active and the implementation of the training of the Sea-King pilots must of course remain unchanged. A budget of EUR 1 875 000 was foreseen for the additional preventive inspections. The operating budget for support contracts and resupply is estimated at EUR 950 000 in 2016, EUR 772 000 in 2017 and EUR 477 000 in 2018. To keep the Sea-King pilots qualified, 60 000 euros per year is needed for external design costs on flight simulator. The fourth and last NH90 Caimanhelicopter in the Navy version has been owned by the Belgian Ministry of Defence since late July 2015, but remains in the company until the end of the first semester of 2016, i.e. until halfway next year, for planned additional works and for the first updates. Regarding the Navy version of the NH90 Caiman, the NFH (Nato Frigate Helicopter), the experience of the users themselves is very positive. Compared to the Sea King, the NH90 is a performer device due to its speed, the possibility of using night vision equipment and the various systems that relieve the workload of the pilots. With regard to the tactical transport version of the NH90, the TTH, the experience of users is also very positive. With the purchase of the NH90 Caiman TTH, Defence now has a medium-class transport helicopter, i.e. up to 11 tons. A comparison with existing military helicopters is therefore not actually possible. The NH90 transport version is a highly performing helicopter that can transport personnel and equipment in all weather conditions, both in a logistics and in a tactical framework. The planned maintenance cycle of the NH90 Caiman is relatively heavy in this initial phase compared to other devices. However, the manufacturer has started a study to optimise the planned maintenance cycles based on the initial customer experience. At the moment we are still in the start-up phase of the support, where the implementation of our NH90 Caiman is framed by the window contract, so it is currently difficult to make a clear and reliable calculation of the cost per hour of flight. I can confirm that it will be considerably higher than that of the current helicopters. Since the first NH90 models were therefore not resistant to corrosion in Belgium, the constructor NHI prescribed a number of corrective and preventive measures. One of the preventive measures is that the helicopters must be sprayed after flights into a salt-loaded atmosphere. This procedure is also applied to the NH90 Caiman of the Belgian Defence Department. No abnormal corrosion has been detected on our helicopters so far. A similar procedure is a standard practice for helicopters operating in a salt-charged atmosphere and is already applied to the Sea King since its inception, at the time when the animals could still speak.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic256x.u80	Minister, I have another question. However, I doubt whether it can be answered here. The latest version of the device stays there for so long. Is it a regular update or is there extra armament mounted on it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic256x.u81	It's just about the next version of an execution right now, so it's not an extra armament, but it's a good suggestion.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic256x.u82	I got that suggestion, too. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic256x.u83	Madam President, Minister, an informal meeting was held in early September with your European counterparts in Luxembourg. It had several items on the agenda, such as the implementation of the Council conclusions on the Common Security and Defence Policy (CSDP) and the evaluation of ongoing missions under the European flag. I would therefore like to ask you, Minister, the following questions. Under the first item of the agenda, "Defence Europe", what impetus do you have or intend to give to implement in practice the conclusions of the European Council of December 2013, as well as the Council conclusions of 15 May 2015 which aim to "bring the CSDP more effective and visible and to make it more results-oriented, to continue to develop both civilian and military capabilities and to strengthen the European defence industry, including SMEs"? Will concrete initiatives with other Member States be taken, particularly as part of the drafting of your strategic plan? How do you view the various European military missions under way? Is the Belgian presence in these countries likely to evolve in the coming months? Finally, during the Luxembourg Presidency, which made the European Union's presence in the world an important part of its agenda, what do you think are the priority issues for CSDP and what would you like to see progress on?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic256x.u84	Mr Pirlot, the December 2013 European Council was the first Security and Defence Council in a long time. Its conclusions included some 60 action points. The development of a new foreign policy and security strategy is probably the most important point. This was confirmed at the informal meeting of Ministers in December. The preparatory work for the revision of this European security strategy is currently under way and is expected to lead to the establishment of a strategy by mid-2016. Belgium fully supported this idea. Together with the Netherlands and Luxembourg, we have drawn up a Benelux position paper in order to amplify the following aspects of this strategy. Respect for fundamental values must be the central element. Defence must take an important place in broader security, in the context of a disputed environment with various threats and risks. Secondly, the integrated approach must be the basis for crisis management. Finally, there is a need to emphasize the interconnection between internal and external aspects of security. The links between security and the different policies of the Union, and in particular the European Neighbourhood Policy, must be highlighted in this strategy. The south and east are equally important and the protection of our borders is essential. Our partners play an important role, and cooperation between NATO and the European Union needs to be really strengthened. If a soft power is not enough, the European Union must not hesitate to use hard power, and this must be provided for in this foreign and strategic security policy. Belgian participation in European operations is based, among other things, on the desire to remain a capable and credible partner. Our contribution to these operations is considered important and will therefore continue. For EUNAVFOR MED, all Member States are ready to move towards the interception phase of smugglers on the high seas. Belgium stands ready to contribute with the frigate in October – what we are doing right now – until November 2015. In Mali, Belgium is the third largest contributor to the EUTM Mali. After a year and a half of static force protection, however, the defence plans to move towards a training role in 2016. We want a little bit of upgrade. In the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC), we assume the command of the EUSEC mission. For the Luxembourg Presidency, the development of the foreign and strategic security policy at the conceptual level, as well as actions related to the problem of immigrants and refugees in our eastern and southern neighbourhoods in terms of migration and, in defence, participation in Operation EUNAVFOR MED, are the priority issues.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic256x.u85	I thank the Minister for his full response.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic256x.u86	As far as questions Nos 6204, 6541, 6542, 6546 and 6654 are concerned, I shall stick to the agreement reached with the Minister, which will help to avoid extending the sauce at the next committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic256x.u87	Madam President, Minister, at the end of August 2015, the Council of Ministers decided to use barracks as a shelter for asylum seekers. Among other things, the army barracks of Helchteren, Sint-Niklaas, Beveren, Vilvoorde, Liège, Tournai and Sijsele were listed and mentioned. In addition, your colleague, Mr Francken, stated that he was in daily contact with the Defense Department about the long queues at the Foreign Affairs Office. I would have liked to have received an answer to the following questions. Are the aforementioned barracks suitable to accommodate the large numbers of refugees? Were many investments made or investments made to provide shelter? Are there sufficient sanitary facilities and sleeping facilities, for example? What contacts are Mr Francken talking about with the Defense Department? Was Defense asked to make additional efforts such as the provision of tents or transport? Furthermore, the Military Hospital has many freestanding beds. Is there any possibility of providing external reception? Finally, is consultations being held to improve the organisation of reception in neighbouring countries? Can Belgian units co-organise or support such social activities?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic256x.u88	Madam President, Minister, over the last few weeks many military facilities have been identified for the reception of asylum seekers. Tournai, Houthalen-Helchteren, Beveren, St Niklaas, Florennes, Leopoldsburg, Lanaken, Namur, Lombardsijde and Koksijde were mentioned. On 16 October 2015, another 1,500 places were created. Among other things Ursel in my province was designated to receive refugees. The increasing number of asylum seekers in our country is likely to require additional capacity. That is at least the quest of your good colleague, Secretary of State Francken. My questions are as follows. How many shelters were already provided on military sites? How many seats are still available? Are the necessary facilities available on the military sites for the reception of asylum seekers? If this is not the case, what adjustments will have to be made? The influx is rising very fast, as I mentioned earlier. Mr. Secretary of State, the Secretary of State is looking very much in your direction and in the direction of Defence. Can the DOD cope with the pace of influx to provide shelters on military sites and also get the military sites ready for reception in time? Will these sites, if necessary, also be used for winter care? After all, winter is at the door, and that is also important. My penultimate question is about the budgetary impact of this shelter for the Defense Department. The last, not insignificant question. In many barracks, soldiers are actively present and perform exercises. What security and surveillance measures are necessary to allow the military to carry out their work and to ensure that the humanitarian mission of the Defence Department in this respect is carried out safely? In the press, reference was made to people fleeing the war and being traumatized, who then end up in military practice. This is a very practical example. To what extent do you intend to do so?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic256x.u89	Mr President, Minister, as we have just mentioned, the PS has always supported and will continue to support the principle of aid to the Nation, which is, for us, an essential mission of our army. National Defence's top priority is, and must remain, our country's international operationality. However, when Defence does not use its personnel, equipment and infrastructure for its missions or the preparation of them, it must put them to the fullest possible use in the service of civil society. However, the number of Belgian soldiers deployed abroad has rarely been as low as under this government. While these interventions for the civilian benefit must of course continue to be subject to a request from the competent civil authorities, I am astonished that your government – or rather the government of which you are a member because I know that you do not like to be said "your government" – seems to prefer to resort to sometimes private means, while the Defence has human and material resources (tents, sanitary facilities, mobile showers, etc.). not used. These should clearly have been made more and better available to the competent authorities by the federal government in order to assist asylum seekers who, for lack of foresight by the federal government, often had to sleep on the street in front of the Foreign Office for several weeks. I would therefore like to ask you, Minister, the following questions in order to take stock of your department's involvement in this framework. Apart from the former barracks provided, what have been the human and material resources of National Defence made available to date in the context of this new crisis of reception and in the situation that prevailed at Maximilian Park? Why have additional means, such as tents and medical blocks of the army, not been made available to the civilian authorities in order to provide an emergency solution to asylum seekers waiting before the Foreign Office? In the future, do you intend to take new initiatives to ensure that additional resources at the Defence level are made available to civilian authorities to deal with such situations?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic256x.u90	Mrs Fernandez Fernandez, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that everything you have just said is incorrect! I will answer your questions first; then I will explain what we have done. If you had taken the trouble of visiting the base of Florennes with the other members of the commission, base where our containers are, you would have noticed that the places are empty! To say we didn't do anything is wrong! Mr Yüksel, it must be clear that the final responsibility for the reception of asylum seekers lies with my colleague, the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration, and with his department Fedasil. The final decisions, the opportunity decisions and so on, are made by Fedasil. The selection of barracks, the number of refugees per barracks, the delivery of mobile units or other support, are decisions of the government on the proposal of the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration and Fedasil. This is, of course, done in consultation with Defence and the local government and takes into account parameters such as available space, sanitation, fire safety, practical feasibility, available resources, etc. Obviously, the Defense Department doesn't decide that for itself. We indicate what is possible, and the Secretary of State and Fedasil decide on what options will or will not be addressed. Any necessary investment works to make a site operational vary from location to location and are carried out on assignment and at the expense of the operator of the centre. The centre is run by organizations like the Red Cross and Croix-Rouge. As a function of the work to be carried out, the recruitment of staff and other services necessary for the operation of the asylum centre, I am thinking, for example, of nutrition, the operator determines the moment at which the centre can be opened. The budgetary impact of this reception in the area of infrastructure is still under our budget, under our accounts. At present, this budgetary impact is still relatively limited. If the situation persists for a long time, it may have an influence, but this is not the case for the time being. At the moment, we cannot use certain infrastructures because they contain asylum seekers. Mrs Fernandez Fernandez, be careful now. On 26 October 2015, there are 20 sites in the military domain, abandoned or active barracks, where refugees are taken care of by decision of the government, accounting for 8,000 shelters. More specifically, there are 7,928 seats. Whether additional places will be opened in military installations will depend on the evolution of the situation and the decision the government will take. However, I suspect that we are not yet at the end of our Latin. Apart from these 20 sites, the Defence provided 150 mobile units and 14 sanitary blocks to Fedasil, which Defence personnel installed with the assistance of Civil Protection. In addition, 4,100 sleeping bags, 900 blankets, tables, chairs and clothing were provided. At the request of the government, the Defence set up a tent and a sanitary unit in Maximilian Park; in addition, several trips were made to Germany to pick up migrants. It is not up to Defence to take initiatives, but if the government decides, Defence will do so to the extent it can. In active barracks, refugees are separated from military personnel by a fence and by using separate entrances. If necessary, the guard will be strengthened. All attendees are also screened by ADIV and we have the names of all residents. Until today, no incidents have been reported between military and migrants. What they do among themselves is their business, but there have been no incidents between soldiers and refugees. The Military Hospital, as the name says, is a hospital and serves for the care of patients and not for the reception of refugees. I believe that it must be clear to everyone that the services provided by the two groups are fundamentally different, both in terms of hospital hygiene and catering and safety. For these reasons neither can be mixed. Like every winter, this year, the Defense Department will contribute to winter care. We discussed this earlier. Either infrastructure will be made available or other aid will be provided. Know that, because of all the blankets, sleeping bags, clothes and so on we have already delivered, and the custom we have today to keep our stocks tailored to the army we need today, all this is not inexhaustible. Because the local authorities did not think it appropriate to accommodate homeless and refugees at the same location in Tournai it was decided to move the homeless to another place for this winter. They don't want to be in the same barracks. That's the choice of the local government. The local government has sought a different solution. Nevertheless, we will take care of the necessary bedding.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic256x.u91	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Most of the answers have been given.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic256x.u92	I'll get you a full list.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic256x.u93	I didn't think you'd answer the last point about the military hospital. I can understand the view that there is no mix of the services provided to the sick and that refugees should also be received in the military hospital.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic256x.u94	Not everything is on the list, but as far as the military hospital is concerned, we do provide support for bone scans. For the purpose of determining the age of refugees, therefore, Defence is making a contribution again. For shelter, that's totally pointless.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic256x.u95	Thank you, Minister, for your full answer and the overview. I think, Mr Fernandez, that this overview shows very clearly that the government has made a great deal of effort in this short time. Can you do more and better? Of course, but with the current demand and need because of the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration, Defence plays its role and assumes its responsibility with 8 000 sites on 20 sites. I am also pleased, Minister, that you are prepared to continue investing in winter care and to create space for that. I also welcome the continued focus on security measures.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic256x.u96	Minister, thank you for your answers. That said, you should not get upset as you do when a Member of Parliament calls on you; that is our role! Besides, it's bad for your heart! You talked about Maximilian Park, about a tent, about a sanitary block. I welcome the work done by the military and the efforts made, even if, as far as thousands of people are concerned, this is a little insufficient! But there is no question here of bidding. On the other hand, I was pleased to hear that opportunities still exist and that efforts can be made. I have just questioned the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration, who has made it very clear to me that, for lack of places, the private sector had been called upon. Perhaps it would be appropriate for you to agree on this! Finally, I did not say that nothing had been done, but that something more could have been done! You talked about the winter reception. I remind members who were not present at the beginning of this meeting that, following a motion proposed by the Minister and supported by the N-VA, this welcome will, if I understand correctly, be billed to the local authorities. Minister, I will not fail to come back to you to question you again.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic256x.u97	I would just like to point out that the list is available to the secretariat, to Mr Peetermans.
