ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic092x.u1	Maya Detiège requested the postponement of her question No. 1835.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic092x.u2	Minister, the latest IPCC report dated November 1, 2014 confirms the magnitude and speed of global warming. IPCC experts also indicate that inaction will cost much more than the investments needed to keep warming below two degrees. In order to study the effects of warming and the most effective measures to deal with it, several experts argue for the establishment of a climate centre of excellence in Belgium. The centre would allow for structural collaboration between climatologists, glaciologists, carbon cycle specialists, geologists, geographers, mathematicians, biodiversity specialists, soil chemists, sustainable development experts, all from the country's universities and scientific institutions. In addition to being able to support the policy of reducing emissions and adapting to climate change by providing objective information to public authorities and stakeholders, businesses or civil society, such a centre would enable our researchers to gain greater international visibility. In this way, they could in particular be included in European and international programmes and thus obtain funding that is very useful for their operation. Minister, the benefits of a climate centre of excellence in knowledge and information seem undeniable. Would you therefore be in favour, in collaboration with the federated entities, of setting up such a centre in Belgium, as is the case, for example, in Great Britain, Austria or France?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic092x.u3	Mr President, the message conveyed by the IPCC in its last report resonates as an alarm signal that constantly reminds us of the urgent measures to be taken both to reduce our greenhouse gas emissions and to limit the impacts of climate change. A strong knowledge base is essential to support these efforts and to guide decision-making, both in the areas of mitigation and adaptation to climate change. There is a real need for access to objective, consistent and reliable climate information in order to better understand and understand future risks. The networking of climate research institutions would make it possible to establish a multidisciplinary reference structure in Belgium. It could provide a sound scientific basis for supporting climate policies, informing the various economic or institutional actors and valuing the expertise available, particularly at the international level. That is why the creation of a federal centre of climate expertise is one of the 34 measures proposed in the draft federal plan "Adaptation to climate change" which I intend to adopt as soon as possible in consultation with my colleagues concerned with its implementation, including the Secretary of State for Science Policy, Ms Elke Sleurs. A preparatory study for the establishment of this centre, carried out on the initiative of the SPF Scientific Policy, is being finalized. It should make it possible to formulate proposals on the structure and mode of operation of the centre and to draw up a road map for its implementation. For more information, I would refer you to my colleague in charge of scientific policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic092x.u4	Minister, thank you for your response and your willingness to participate in the establishment of this centre of excellence. I will return to the subject in due course, when the studies in progress are finalized to know the fate you reserve for this proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic092x.u5	Madam Secretary, on 1 December 2014, the 20th International Climate Conference was launched in Lima. An agreement between the 195 participating countries was not immediately expected, but we were hoping to lay the foundations of a larger climate agreement in Paris at the end of 2015. Its purpose should be to limit global warming to a maximum of two degrees Celcius. There was still a large gap between the larger economies and the growing countries. The latter do not immediately stand in the way of taking climate measures that could possibly slow down their economic growth. In itself, the individual role of Belgium at such a large summit is, of course, limited. We do participate fully in European climate initiatives and make a number of efforts ourselves. Recently it became known that we are paying EUR 50 million extra to the UN Climate Fund. In the meantime, the Brussels-Capital Region has committed EUR 600 000. Only Flanders and Wallonia had yet to follow. Madam Secretary, how do you see the discussions between the federal government and the Länder evolving in the future? Do you believe that, in addition to an international climate agreement in 2015, a federal climate agreement is also necessary, namely an agreement between federal and regional authorities on a possible key to the efforts to be made within the climate and energy objectives?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic092x.u6	Mrs Capoen, I would like to thank you for this very interesting question in which you raise a number of very important issues. It is true that the 20th climate conference, COP 20, has not been easy. The discussions were often intense and thus illustrated the differences that still exist between the views of the different parties. However, this conference must not be seen as a failure, because a clear work programme was agreed which should enable us to reach a legally binding global agreement in Paris in December, which is far from negligible. The negotiations due to take place in 2015 will also be complex, I admit, but I am optimistic about the end result. Let me also be surprised by your assessment of Belgium's role in these negotiations. Our country is far from being inactive and has a high-quality delegation, coordinated by the Climate Change department of my administration. The Belgian delegation's experts carry out important coordination functions within the European Union and seek to defend important values such as the fairness of the future agreement and its ambition. In addition, Belgium, through its contribution of €51.6 million to the Green Climate Fund, has exceeded the $10 billion mark in the Fund, which was one of the main objectives of COP 20. For the sake of accuracy, let me also add that in addition to the 50 million of the federal authority, the Brussels Region to the tune of 600,000 euros and the Walloon Region to the amount of 1 million euros, have also contributed to this objective. I hope that the Flemish Region will join this collective effort in the future. However, let us not lose sight of the fact that this contribution is distributed over four years and constitutes only part of the minimum EUR 50 million that Belgium must provide each year in the period 2013-2015 as part of its international climate finance commitments. It is therefore essential that we achieve a structural and balanced solution for the future of the Belgian contribution. Discussions on this subject must be resumed quickly and are closely linked to the dossier on the distribution of efforts between the Federal State and the Regions in achieving the objectives of the Climate and European Energy package for the period 2013-2020. Within the framework of the European Semester, Belgium has already been reminded more than once by the European Commission and the European Council because of this lack of agreement, and the OECD has also recently expressed criticism on this subject. The Government will give priority to obtaining a cooperation agreement on burden-sharing for the period 2013-2020 and will therefore contribute to an equitable distribution of the objectives and revenues of the auctioning of CO2 allowances between the Federal State and the Regions on the one hand, and between the Regions themselves on the other. I hope that we can quickly reach a political agreement on this issue and I can already point out to you that my colleague from the Brussels-Capital Region, who currently holds the chairmanship of the National Climate Committee, which met for the first time during this parliamentary term on 30 January, has already informed me that she will soon take the initiative to start discussions in this direction. In this context, the Government will play the role of facilitator and federator, in particular by implementing measures in the areas of taxation, biofuels, offshore wind energy, the promotion of cycling, product standards, railways and energy efficiency in the buildings of the federal public authority, thus contributing to the achievement of Belgium's 2020 targets. In this regard, I am in favour of strengthening cooperation between the Federal State and the Regions, with a view to achieving greater coherence and effectiveness in climate policies. The future intra-Belgian agreement must also include strict rules to ensure compliance with and follow-up to the commitments made by all Belgian authorities in this context. The international agreement expected in Paris at the end of 2015 focuses on the post-2020 effort. The European climate target for this period was decided at the European Council on 23 and 24 October 2014, in the context of the 2030 European climate-energy framework. It consists of an internal reduction of at least 40% of our greenhouse gas emissions in 2030 compared to 1990. This objective constitutes the European offer in the context of international negotiations, and should be formally notified in an official EU submission to UNFCCC in March. Discussions on the 2030 European Climate and Energy Framework will continue this year, in particular through the discussion of the legislative proposals by the European Commission. It is only after that process that discussions on the national effort-sharing of the 2030 climate and energy framework can begin.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic092x.u7	Madam Minister, although I am convinced that Belgium is already making great efforts on climate issues, it can never hurt to push them up again, as our country is one of the countries with the largest ecological footprint in the world. The time for moving the hot potato between the various governments must also be over. We were not wrongly given the title Fossil of the Year at the Lima conference. We therefore urgently need to work on agreements between the various authorities in our country. I'm glad you're going to work on that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic092x.u8	Mr. Speaker, Madam Minister, as we all know, a lot of chemicals, sometimes dangerous, come into the composition of objects that we use every day. These include formaldehyde, the basis of formol, which is one of the most widely used. It can be found in fake leathers, carpets, agglomerated panels, wooden panels, glues and also in baby beds and furniture. This substance is therefore also present in basic nurseries and schools. This question was also put to the Parliament of the French Community by the Minister for Education, who replied that the Federal Minister for the Environment had jurisdiction. That's why I'm asking you now. Formaldehyde has been catalogued as a carcinogen by the WHO International Cancer Research Centre (IARC). It is considered particularly dangerous in young subjects. In 2009, the Association Santé Environnement (ASEF) in France quantified formaldehyde in four wooden baby beds, sold in large furniture brands. In all cases, the amount of formaldehyde emitted was close to one quarter of the value from which this product is dangerous to man - not to mention the usual presence of other furniture, carpets and paints in a normal dwelling. The European directives already prohibit formaldehyde for its use in phytopharmaceuticals and envisage its prohibition as a biocide. Minister, have any studies already been conducted under the auspices of your services on the dangerousness of this product to the health of our fellow citizens? Should it not be legally ensured that it has a minimum presence in everyday consumer goods, such as furniture and interior decorations? Indeed, this addition of product increases the possibility of contamination to the individual.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic092x.u9	Dear colleague, thank you for your question, which has received my full attention. Formaldehyde, as you said, is a compound widely present in our various indoor environments - it is unreassuring to hear you list them. In Belgium, studies in this area are carried out by the Regions in private homes, schools and crèches. The studies carried out are carried out within the framework of the National Environment Health Action Plan (NEHAP), i.e. they derive from an Environment/Health Cooperation Agreement of 10 December 2003. These studies have shown that the average concentration of this product is approximately 30 micrograms per m3. You can also consult the report of the Crèches project, which is available on the nehap.be website.This concentration in the environment is three times higher than that mentioned in the WHO recommendation when it comes to protecting sensitive people, i.e. 10 micrograms per m3, but it is below the recommended value for the general population, which is 100 micrograms per m3. The carcinogenic classification of formaldehyde has recently been re-evaluated under the CLP Regulation, namely the existing regulations on the classification, labelling and packaging of chemicals as a carcinogen 1B, i.e. a substance whose carcinogenic potential for humans is assumed; this classification will apply from 1 April 2015. In addition to labelling requirements, this new classification will lead to a restriction on the composition of products, which will impose the 0.1% limit on the composition of substances and mixtures placed on the consumer market, on the basis of the REACH regulation we discussed earlier in the exchange of views. As regards the articles placed on the market, i.e. products other than mixtures and substances as such, the REACH Regulation provides for a composition limitation provision in the articles for consumers with regard to carcinogenic, mutagenic or reproductively toxic substances. This subject is also under discussion at European level. Our services are awaiting a Commission proposal in this area in the course of 2015. In preparation for this proposal, the Commission will launch, in the first quarter of 2015, a public consultation, visible on the Europa site of DG Enterprise, in which economic actors and citizens are invited to participate. Textiles were selected as the first category of items for this initiative. Then follow the children's items, decoration materials and so on. In this discussion, Belgium took a position in favour of a maximum reduction in consumer exposure to carcinogenic, mutagenic and reprotoxic substances from articles placed on the market. However, in addition to the products containing it, formaldehyde is a substance generated by many chemical degradation processes in products that did not contain it at the base. Acting on simple composition is therefore not enough. In the absence of a harmonised European initiative in this area, based on the German and French approaches, Belgium has adopted legislation to limit emissions from construction materials and related products. The Royal Decree of 8 May 2014 lays down the thresholds for emissions to the indoor environment of construction products for certain intended uses, and in particular formaldehyde. This legislation currently applies only to floor coverings. Federal advisory councils, including the Central Economic Council, the Federal Council for Sustainable Development and the Higher Council for Health, called for its gradual expansion to cover other types of coating. For wall and ceiling coverings, the feasibility study is under way. The first results of this study will be presented and discussed with the parties involved on February 23, 2015. A similar study will be undertaken this year for furniture, decoration and certain consumables, including those for the maintenance of heating and ventilation systems. For maintenance products, a similar study is planned for 2016. As you can see, we're surrounded.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic092x.u10	Minister, thank you for that substantiated answer. I note that Belgium has for a long time taken into account the extent of the pollution that we might suffer because of this formaldehyde. I hear a lot of studies are under way. I'll follow the case carefully. This topic is topical, mainly for children in nurseries. As an authority, our responsibility is to ensure that pollution is limited to young people.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic092x.u11	Madam Secretary, I asked Mrs De Block my question. Mrs De Block has informed me that you would give me the answer. Recent Dutch research in Schiphol and its environs shows that the life expectancy of people living around an airport is declining significantly. It goes from a few months to more than a year shorter life by exposure to increased concentrations of ultra-fine particulate matter emitted by aircraft engines. Experts have long known that there is a link between exposure to ultra-fine dust and mortality. That is why I am asking you the following questions. Will you also have the impact of air traffic around our airports........................................................................................................................................... What measures will you take to reduce the effects of increased exposure to ultra-fine dust? Will you also pay specific attention to the residents and the workers who are exposed every day because they work at an airport? Do you or do your colleagues in the current government intend to reduce the sulphur content of aviation fuel?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic092x.u12	The problem of air quality and, in particular, the pollution of fine dust is one of my main concerns. This pollution is, of course, detrimental to the health of our people, but also to our economy. However, in accordance with the special law of 18 August 1980 reforming the institutions, most of the environmental policy falls within the competence of the regions. This is the case for the control of the risks associated with the presence of the airport and the measures for the exposure of the population. As regards the protection of workers, I would refer you to my honourable colleague and Minister for Labour, Mr Kris Peeters. Given the division of powers between the Regions and the federal authority with regard to airport operations, air management and airspace and the environmental impact of air traffic, the Government will enter into cooperation agreements with the Regions. I would refer you back to my adorable colleague, the Minister of Mobility, Mrs Jacqueline Galant. You will have to commute between the different committees.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic092x.u13	That's why you haven't seen me here. I'm running from commission to commission.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic092x.u14	As regards the quality of fuels, their sulphur content and the performance of engines, Belgian standards in this regard would have no effect in view of the international nature of air traffic. It is mainly through a pooling of the effort to reduce emissions at European level that we will manage this pollution. I will therefore continue to plead with the European Union for further strengthening the environmental standards applicable to the air transport sector. Belgium is, moreover, one of the Member States of the Union which has reacted, interlocked, defended and finally secured the retention of the Clean Air package in the work programme of the new Commission.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic092x.u15	From the locker to the wall.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic092x.u16	Minister De Block has forwarded me to you for this question. I wonder how many ministers you will list. The most recent European air quality report from 2014 shows that particularly vulnerable groups bear the consequences of fine dust. Especially in the first years of life, this has an important impact on the development of the child. Later too, it can cause diseases. So children are the first victims. The poor quality of our air is responsible for 20% of cases of acute bronchitis in children. Prenatal exposure to fine dust leads to disease at a later age. That's why I asked Minister De Block my question first. This is not only disturbing for public health, it also costs our system a lot of money. The European Commission has also calculated that this will lead to a loss of many millions of working days, while this government is asking that we all work longer and more. What will you do to protect our children from fine dust? What will you do to defend the clean air policy package and the strict European standards? How will you convince your fellow ministers to make this a priority? Will you calculate whether stricter air quality standards can lead to cost-efficiency?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic092x.u17	Mrs Dedry, the problem of air quality is an important challenge for Belgium. Its cost, including in the area of health care, is indeed excessive. Vulnerable groups, such as young children whose lungs are not yet fully developed, are particularly sensitive. They must be better protected, first and foremost by reducing air pollution. However, under the Special State Reform Act of 8 August 1980, most of the environmental policy and prevention policies in the field of public health fall within the competence of the Regions and Communities. For example, air quality standards fall within the scope of the European directives which are transposed by the Regions in Belgium. A unilateral policy of Belgian standards would, moreover, make little sense, given the cross-border nature of this type of pollution. It is also through a pooling of effort at European level that we will manage this pollution without undermining the competitiveness of our companies. As part of the National Environment-Health Action Plan, in collaboration with my colleagues in Health and the Environment at different levels of authority, I am involved in the implementation of a certification in environmental medicine. This certification should enable health professionals to better manage pathologies related to environmental causes. In terms of federal jurisdiction, this certification will need to be recognized and various tools adapted to enable environmental determinants to be taken into account in medical practice. I am thinking in particular of the introduction of certain environmental factors related to air quality in the computerized medical file. I refer you for more details necessarily to my honourable colleague, the Minister of Health, Maggie De Block. A new federal air pollution control plan will be presented shortly. The plan will include a number of measures in the areas of transport, taxation and product standards. The aim will be to support the Regions and to comply with European air quality requirements. The Clean Air for Europe strategy and, in part, the package of measures currently under discussion within the European Union must be properly and fully implemented. Our goal of breathing healthy air, in line with the recommendations of the World Health Organisation, is and will remain a major challenge for the European Union for 2050. The federal government must no longer be convinced of the importance of air quality, in order to demonstrate that one of the important federal levers remains taxation. It will not have escaped your notice that the government agreement provides for an important tax reform and a shift from labour taxation to, among other things, environmental taxation. Through greener taxation, the government also aims to encourage sustainable choices, improve health and protect the environment. In concrete terms, the government has already opted to phase out the price advantage to the diesel pump in the fight against the car fleet's diesel engine, which is largely responsible for the many pollution peaks.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic092x.u18	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. I'll keep following it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic092x.u19	As announced at the beginning of the sitting, Question No 1835 by Mrs Detiège was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic092x.u20	Minister, the EU's Climate-Energy Package 2013-2020 sets two legally binding targets for Belgium to achieve by 2020: to reduce by 15% our greenhouse gas emissions in non-ETS sectors and to achieve a 13% renewable energy share. These objectives must be implemented jointly by the Regions and the federal government. The 2013-2020 package is also a source of financial revenue through the emissions trading system. In simple terms, "ETS sectors need to buy emission allowances in order to be able to pollute". Some of these emissions are auctioned by Member States. Belgium thus obtains income. These revenues must also be distributed between the Regions and the federal government. These elements have been the subject of inter-federal negotiations since 2009. This has not been achieved to date, in any case in a comprehensive manner. The Consultation Committee on 28 January has again considered this thorny issue. I would therefore like to ask you the following questions. What decisions were taken at the Consultation Committee on 28 January on this matter? What part of the effort in terms of reducing greenhouse gas and renewable energy emissions are you going to propose to take over from the federal government and what part of the ETS revenue you feel you have to go back to the federal government? What is the amount of revenue from the auctioning of currently accumulated CO2 allowances? Can you confirm to me that this money is being held up pending an agreement between the Regions and the federal government?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic092x.u21	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I attach the utmost importance to the question of sharing efforts on the European climate-energy package and the distribution of revenues from the auctioning of emission allowances. This case was too late. It has therefore become increasingly urgent to conclude an agreement between the Regions and the Federal State in order to ensure that Belgium is able to fulfil its international commitments and can carry out the various actions required for the annual monitoring of the implementation of the various elements of the package in due course this year. The Consultation Committee, which met on 28 January, instructed the National Climate Commission to resume negotiations without delay on the sharing of the objectives of the Climate-Energy 2013-2020 package between the federal government and regional governments. It was also agreed that the government of the entity chairing the National Climate Commission, namely that of the Brussels-Capital Region, should be entrusted, after consensus within that committee, with proposing to the Concerted Committee a draft political agreement on the allocation of efforts, together with a work plan to finalize the administrative procedures for its implementation. As regards the federal contribution to efforts to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, it was agreed in the framework of the government agreement that the Regions would be supported in their climate policy, as well as in their air quality policy, with support in the areas of taxation, biofuels, bicycles, product standards, energy efficiency of federal public buildings and railways. This, together with efforts on renewable energy – offshore wind – will be the federal contribution to the achievement of the European Union's 2020 climate-energy package in Belgium, in the context of a balanced distribution of efforts and revenues from the auction of CO2 emissions allowances. In concrete terms, my proposal is to build on the elements defined by the previous government in the discussions held in late 2013 and early 2014, which are consistent with the agreement of this government. Negotiations with the Regions at the time had almost been concluded, with a consensus on most of the elements, with the notable exception of the distribution of revenues from the auctioning of emission allowances. It seems reasonable to me to build on the achievements of the previous negotiating phases, which took place in the presence of the same players as those at the negotiating table today, in order to facilitate the conclusion of an agreement and not to start all over again. I have therefore asked my partners in the government to reconfirm the previously determined federal offer. This offer includes four points that I'm going to detail. First, with regard to the emission reduction target in non-ETS sectors: the continuation of existing policies and measures, whose effect is estimated at 15,250 kt of CO2 for the period 2013-2020 and the introduction of new policies and measures for an additional emission reduction of 7,000 kt of CO2. Secondly, as regards the renewable energy target: a double commitment to take all the measures necessary to contribute, via offshore wind production, to a minimum share of 2% of renewable energy in the gross final energy consumption in 2020 and to achieve the full renewable energy target in transport, i.e. 10%, with a revision clause in the cooperation agreement in the event of a revision of the European energy regulation and provided that the Regions undertake to continue and/or strengthen their policies and measures in this sector. Thirdly, as far as revenues from the auctioning of emissions are concerned, a share of 20 to 30% goes to the federal government. This range is consistent with the federal share in efforts to achieve the objectives of the Climate-Energy package. Finally, with regard to international climate finance, a commitment to allocate 10% of the revenues from the auction of emission allowances. This policy is also in the context of an energy vision that will enable the socio-economic and environmental transformations required over the next 20 to 25 years and will also contribute to the transition to a carbon-poor society essential to limit global warming to a maximum of two centigrade degrees compared to the pre-industrial era. As far as the revenue from the auctioning of emission allowances is concerned, I can confirm that, in accordance with the decision of the Conciliation Committee of 11 December 2012, the accumulated revenue of 3 February amounted to €222,952,660 will remain in the account in which it is located until the conclusion of a cooperation agreement on their allocation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic092x.u22	Minister, thank you for the completeness and quality of your answer. I also welcome your willingness to conclude negotiations on the basis of the elements that you have reminded us and which, I am sure, will be the subject of a long-awaited agreement in the coming weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic092x.u23	This therefore puts an end to our working session. I would like to thank the minister and her staff, the committee secretariat and the translation.
