ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic119x.u1	Madam President, my question dates back a few weeks ago, but it remains topical because of the commemorations that are taking place in connection with the First World War. According to annual tradition, the Four Days of the IJzer is organized in the region of West Flanders in August, a walking tour with final stage in Ypres, which in the past always took place from Wednesday to Saturday. This year, at the 43rd edition of the hiking tour, it is completely organized on weekdays. The problem for the organisation is that the closing day, which usually falls on Saturdays, attracts the most people. Moving the hike can have a major impact on the number of hikers that can free themselves. I have the following specific questions. What's the reason for moving the trip? Is it too expensive to pay the staff extra on Saturdays? Should additional fees be paid? Are there any other events being moved? Are all organisations informed in good time?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic119x.u2	Madam President, Mr Top, in the 2015 edition, the Four Days of the Iron will only be organised effectively during weekdays. As you know, my department is facing a lot of savings. This decision is not strange. The possible recasting of the calendar was already discussed with the representatives of the front cities last year. On 3 February 2015, the mayors of the front cities or their representatives, as members of the Organizing Committee of the Four Days of the Iron, were informed of the savings plan and the possible deletion of the stage on Saturday during the 2015 edition. On 3 March 2015, the Organising Committee met again to further assess the impact of the savings on cities. In general, 20% savings are made in defence in relation to such peripheral activities. Other events are also being reviewed. I gave an answer at the previous committee meeting on a similar march in the south of the country. During the meeting on 3 March, the order of the walking days was also discussed, with a departure and arrival in Koksijde on 18 August 2015 including an opening ceremony, a departure and arrival in Diksmuide on 19 August 2015, a departure and arrival in Poperinge on 20 August 2015 and the last day, on 21 August 2015, a departure and arrival in Ypres with a memorial ceremony under the Menenpoort and the closing defilé on the Grote Markt.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic119x.u3	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. I have two observations or concerns. We commemorate in this period, from 2014 to 2018, that the First World War took place 100 years ago. Just during this period, we are faced with a reduction in these important events due to savings. That is a pity, especially in the light of the promises or commitments made, if I am well informed, which the previous Minister, Mr De Crem, had already made, with those commemorative ceremonies being organized on the same dates. If that were the case, it is regrettable that it will be returned to this and that if it no longer takes place on Saturday, the activity will therefore have fewer participants. This will reduce the appearance of the Four Days in the region.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic119x.u4	Madam President, Minister, on 26 January a Greek F-16B crashed in Spain, resulting in 12 deaths and 20 injuries. Our Belgian Defence also owns aircraft of this type. No Belgian pilots were injured and they tried to reassure with the fact that there is no known cause of the crash. In addition, our F-16B devices carry out a maintenance program at SABCA. At present, Belgium still has ten such aircraft, which are mainly used for pilot training. Last summer, the U.S. Air Force advised our country to investigate those aircraft for cracks in the hull. That's when three of the ten devices detected cracks. According to the l'Avenir newspaper, several devices, albeit to varying degrees, would show cracks. Soon all F-16B devices, as well as the three defective devices, would be back in service. One of these devices would have been repaired, the other two are owned by the SABCA technical service. The aircraft, which have been in service since 1979, have been subject to revisions, repairs and upgrades. Can you confirm that we own ten such aircraft? The aircraft are mainly used to train pilots. Does the fact that for some time only seven aircraft were operational affect the number of pilots able to obtain a certificate? Does this mean that they get less training in the form of flight hours? Is there more use on simulator sessions? Revisions, operations and upgrades are of course necessary for aircraft, but should we not ask ourselves whether these aircraft still need repair when cracks appear in the hull? How long will the planes be operational? Were the three faulty planes already repaired? Since when have they been operational again, if that is the case? Do the remaining seven aircraft also show cracks, albeit to a lesser extent? What is the cost of recovery costs? Who's funding that? After the incident in Spain, are additional controls on our devices planned?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic119x.u5	Mr Minister, as Mr Top has just said, on 26 January following this dramatic accident during an exercise, a Greek F-16, losing control just after take-off, sharply deviated from its course, came to hit the French line and a little bit the Italian line that was next to it, causing the death of nine French and wounding a dozen people on the Italian side, triggering a fire on the air base where the planes were based. Mr Minister, in addition to the emotion caused by this tragedy, he immediately comes to mind the question of the safety of Belgian pilots using the F-16s. The question here is not what the best aircraft will be to replace them in the long term, but to ensure that while they are in service in the Belgian army, everything is done to ensure safe pilotage conditions for our soldiers. Has the Minister, General Dynamics, manufacturer of the F-16s, provided you with any information regarding the technical causes of this accident? Did he contact you to check the Belgian aircraft? If so, have these controls been carried out? Were they on ejectable seats, take-off systems? If the manufacturer has not offered to check the aeroplanes out of its production lines, what are you planning to do about it? Ask General Dynamics to do the necessary security checks? Asking another competent authority to carry out the checks in question? Pending these concrete answers, what decisions do you intend to take in order to preserve the lives of our pilots and ground personnel, particularly in theatres of operations? When comparing the number of aircraft since the start of the F-16s and what happens with other types of aircraft, it may be possible to include this element in the analysis for future purchases.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic119x.u6	Madam President, Mr Top, Defence currently has nine operational devices of the type F-16B. Seven of these devices were indeed discovered with cracks, which have temporarily been taken out of service. With the remaining two aircraft, the training was continued, but there was a delay of several months. This does not affect the number of pilots that will obtain the certificate, but there is, of course, a delay. The number of training flights to be carried out has also not been affected. The training will retain exactly the same number of flights and flight hours as foreseen. During the period of low availability of F-16B's, the young student pilots were able to maintain their basic skills during free simulator sessions. The aircraft must remain operational until 2023-2028. To monitor the structural health of the fleet, a programme has been put in place by the manufacturer where the ageing of the structure, and therefore also the presence of cracks, is closely monitored. Specific maintenance programs, including crack repair, are developed to ensure airworthiness. In the meantime, all repairs have been completed and all aircraft for training are back in operation. The total recovery costs are estimated at 120 000 euros and are borne by the planned Defence budget. As far as the aircraft accident in Spain is concerned, it is of course always important to be guided not only by the incident but also by the investigation. The investigation into the cause of the accident in Spain is still ongoing. If during the investigation, carried out by the competent authorities as well as by the manufacturer, it appears that there is an impact on the configuration of the Belgian fleet, which would require additional controls, we expect instructions via the calibrated channels within the international F-16 world. As you know, we work together at a multinational level for the maintenance and upgrades of the F-16. Pending the results of the investigation, Defense will continue to inspect the aircraft as planned in accordance with the applicable guidelines, in order to ensure flight safety.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic119x.u7	Madam President, Minister, you obviously understand the concerns of me and my colleague, both for the pilots and for the military and for the citizens, who, as has been shown in Spain, may be the victims of such problems. Of course, we have to wait and see, but of course my concern remains with the outcome of the investigation. I assume that we will be further informed about the outcome of the investigation and that we will not have to submit a new question to that effect. Of course, I expect a great deal of attention to be paid to detecting possible defects on the aircraft, so that safety is and remains respected in all cases.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic119x.u8	Minister, I did not doubt for a moment your willingness to ensure the best possible safety for our pilots and aircraft. Last week, while I was with my colleague Alain Top in Taiwan, I was a little troubled when we were told percentages in terms of aircraft safety that were very different for another aircraft type. But comparison does not necessarily mean right, of course.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic119x.u9	Minister, after 11 September 2001, a number of countries discussed the question of what to do when a plane is hijacked and may be used to attack a civilian or military target. That's a Renegade. Then there is a question that needs to be answered extremely quickly: do we take down the plane to save the people on the ground and thus sacrifice the plane? Is the lives of the people on the plane at that time subordinate to the lives of the people on the ground? However difficult this ethical issue may be, the United States and Germany, among others, have developed an approach to have a standard procedure ready. The US trains pilots to pull the trigger in such moments of crisis if it proves necessary. In their opinion, this mental preparation is necessary, because the pilot should not doubt the order to shoot. Germany, on the other hand, explicitly chooses not to. Human lives are absolute with them and the lives of the occupants are not subordinate. The choice not to shoot was laid down by law. Another option is to take the plane off course by pushing it with fighter planes. In our country, too, the procedures to be followed are being trained, according to the former Minister of Defence in an answer to a parliamentary question in the Senate. I realise that this situation is highly unlikely, but the issue is worth reflecting, given the international function of our capital and the recent terrorist threats. In 2007, a parliamentary question in the Chamber was answered that the Minister of Defence should decide what should happen, while in January 2014 the previous Minister of Defence indicated in the Senate that, according to the Renegade protocol, the Minister of Defence should seek advice from the Prime Minister and the Minister of the Interior. I have the following questions. Should the Minister of Defence still seek advice from the Prime Minister and the Minister of the Interior in the possible use of lethal violence, given the very rapid decision to take? Can you tell me to what extent Belgium is cooperating with Germany, France and Luxembourg on this matter? In the meantime, you have concluded an agreement with the Netherlands, which we consider to be a very good thing. Do you think it would be appropriate to conclude an agreement with other countries in our immediate vicinity, for example with the United Kingdom, given the international nature of this problem?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic119x.u10	Madam President, Mr Vandenput, for the use of armed forces and, above all, lethal violence, the Minister of Defence takes the decision in consultation with the Prime Minister and the Minister of the Interior. In order to cooperate with our partners on this issue, Belgium sent an invitation to all neighbouring countries to formalise international cooperation in this field in the context of the acceptance of the Renegade concept at the end of May 2004. The treaty with France was finalized in 2005 and is currently continuing the ratification cycle again because of the administrative procedure that has been wrongly applied in the past. A proposal to amend this treaty was sent to France to bring the existing agreement into line with the more recent Benelux air surveillance agreement that we signed in the Netherlands two weeks ago. I have been given a mandate by the government to negotiate a treaty with Germany on this matter. In the context of Benelux cooperation, an agreement was recently reached with the Netherlands and Luxembourg in this area. That treaty was signed on 4 March 2015 and is the beginning of cooperation in the area of a common Quick Reaction Alert, which is actually a NATO procedure, and Renegade, which is a civil procedure. The United Kingdom has not so far been interested in formalising such agreements.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic119x.u11	Thank you, Minister, for the clarity of the procedure. So you can take the decisions in consultation with the Prime Minister and the Minister of the Interior. I would also like to thank you for your clear answer to the question of how far we are with the agreements with our neighbouring countries. I believe that this is the only way to adequately resolve such incidents in our airspace.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic119x.u12	Debates of the European Parliament 2577 by Mrs Fernandez Fernandez will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic119x.u13	There is one questioner left.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic119x.u14	Minister, this is the first time I've had the opportunity to ask you a question. Don't worry, I've got plenty. A question that came to light a few weeks ago related to the construction of new hangars supposed to be able to house the Airbus A400M. This construction would be necessary to the extent that the command of these Airbuses, which was postponed if I am well aware of all the events, would lead to a new construction of hangars and additional costs. We know that, even if I regret it, we always ask the Defence for a special effort, for various reasons. How will it be possible to finance this necessary construction or how can this investment be achieved by generating the least possible additional costs?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic119x.u15	Mrs Jadin, when the Airbus A400M was acquired in 2003, it was already clear at that time that adequate new infrastructure would be needed. The A400Ms are expected in 2018. There was no need to start work before. The case was presented to the previous government, which decided to postpone the decision to the next government, that of today. The location of the A400Ms and project funding will be part of my Defence Strategic Plan. Once the political decision has been taken, every effort will be made to ensure that the necessary infrastructure is made available on time. For years, defence investment credits have been included in separate programs in the Department's budget, although budget legislation does not impose it. Nevertheless, as I have already said, Defence's strategic plan is also aimed at reorganizing the Defence budget to create more financial stability and ensure operations and investments.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic119x.u16	Minister, thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic119x.u17	Debates of the European Parliament 2577 by Mrs Fernandez Fernandez will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic119x.u18	Minister, I am asking this question in response to a problem that arises in the Netherlands. The Dutch Defence has for some time been receiving complaints from employees who are believed to have become ill due to working with chrome paint and CARC. It would be about staff who worked with this paint in the Dutch Defence workshops in the 1980s and 1990s. The paint was used to protect fighter jets and tanks from rust. When spraying the paint and the sanding work on the fighter planes, a toxic substance is released. The substance chromium-6, which is contained in the paint and the lacquer, is carcinogenic. In addition, if staff are not well protected from it, the product may also cause allergic reactions. If inhaled, it can lead to nosebleeds, skin rash, stomach ulcers and even liver and kidney damage or lung cancer. Hundreds of former employees and current Defence staff in the Netherlands have already reported to the Ministry with serious health complaints. The Dutch Defence Summit states that the substance was used because it is effective to such an extent that, when Defense would switch to alternatives, it would create major security risks for the pilots and limit the operational employability of the fighter jets. For the reasons cited, the use of the paint was abolished in 1998 by the Dutch Army, but the Leeuwarden Air Base still uses chromium-6. I have the following questions to the Minister. Mr Minister, has our Belgian Defence ever worked with chromium-6 paints or with paint in which chromium-6 is incorporated? If so, is our Belgian Defense still using chromium-6 paints today? If not, until when was that substance used? Where and for which assignments was or is this substance used? What precautions have been or are being provided for? Have any complaints been received in the event that the substance has been or is being used? Were or are these complaints being investigated? Is the causal link between the substance and any disease being investigated? Are effects due to the use of chromium-6 accepted as an occupational disease?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic119x.u19	Thank you, Mr Top, for your concern and your question. Indeed, the Belgian Defense Department has once worked on paints containing chromium-6. The fabric was used in all painting workshops where protection against corrosion of systems made of metal was required. At the end of the 1990s, the use of chromatic ground layers was completely banned for land systems and replaced with chromatic ground layers. However, for some other systems, such as aircraft, those substitutes could not achieve the required level of corrosion protection until 2013. Since 2013, the paint industry has an equivalent substitute for chromium-containing soil layers in production. We're gonna use them today, too. From 2001 onwards, it was decided that, where a chromatic base layer remained absolutely necessary, it was further protected by an additional interlayer in the execution of paintings, so that the release of chromatic dust particles in subsequent sanding operations became almost impossible. Furthermore, within Defence, all necessary collective and individual protective equipment were and are available to a sufficient extent to protect staff against the possible effects of dealing with those products and in particular against the effects of chromium-6. As part of health surveillance of workers potentially exposed to chromium-6, no specific complaints have been identified in recent years.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic119x.u20	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. As your answer shows, my concern may be taken seriously, in the sense that the substance was also used by our defence. I am pleased to hear that all the necessary precautions have been taken to monitor the safety and health of employees. The complaints formulated in the Netherlands were caused by the use that took place years ago. It's only now that the problems have surfaced. I suppose and I hope, of course, that the defence and medical staff will continue to pay due attention to this and will seriously investigate any complaints about the use of these substances.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic119x.u21	Minister, in the past we have heard in hearings that cyber defence is one of the challenges of the 21st century. Investing in cyber defence is therefore absolutely necessary. The Minister for the Budget, Mr Jamar, has allowed an exception to your question to the recruitment stop in the federal government, because the capacity of the military intelligence service has been disproportionate to the cyber threat for years. The ADIV can now be extended to 25 people. I would like to have an answer to a few questions. How many people were already working on cyber defence within the ADIV? Can we speak in proportion to a strong increase in staff? Within what period do you wish to achieve this increase in staff effectively? How much money is being made available for these recruitments?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic119x.u22	Minister, like Mr Top, I am very pleased that this government is working on cyber security. It is a priority of this government, which was also in the coalition agreement. Work is under way to develop a cyber security centre to bring together all these initiatives. We read in the newspapers that the SOC, the Security Operations Center, will be expanded by 25 people. I hope the Minister will confirm this information. If that is the case, I would like to thank him for keeping his word by making cyber defense and cyber security real priorities. My specific questions are in line with those of Mr Top. How many people are currently working in the ADIV cyber department? How does our cyber intelligence relate to other countries, such as NATO partners? Is the recruitment of those 25 people looking at internal shifts or is it about external recruitment? The colleague already referred to the recruitment stop. What timing is being considered for the recruitment of these people? What profiles are sought in recruitment, in terms of diploma requirements and the like? What about, besides the staff, the material development of the SOC? Can you tell us a little bit more about the size of the budgets that should be released for this purpose?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic119x.u23	Madam President, thank you for your questions. The 25 functions constitute a structural and essential increase in the current capacity for cyber security of the ADIV. The requested figures on the number of people employed in the ADIV cyber department and in other countries, whether or not belonging to NATO, are classified. Defense recruits these 25 additional informants through Selor. In consultation with Selor we wish to complete the selection preferably for this summer or during the summer. Defence targets young people with a strong knowledge of computer science. The ADIV can offer these young people a very challenging and attractive working environment. An individual training package is provided that is initially used to make the cyber specialist operational and subsequently to keep him or her on a level in this rapidly evolving environment. These formations take place in principle outside the Ministry of Defence. The remuneration of these posts was planned for budgetary purposes. It's an acceleration in the recruitment of those people. So it was budget planned. The necessary resources for training, operating equipment and retention are laid down. The infrastructure for the development of the Cyber Security Operations Center started in 2014 and should be completed by mid-2015.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic119x.u24	Thank you, Minister, for your answers. I understand, of course, when you say that the figures are classified, but I think you can tell from your answer that there is a structural increase, and that this is therefore a proportionate increase.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic119x.u25	I can add to your information that it is substantial for me.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic119x.u26	Okay. It is important, as Mr Buysrogge says, that the necessary attention is paid to cyber defence. I can only welcome that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic119x.u27	Thank you, Minister, for your reply and for the positive initiatives you have taken in this area. The cyber threat is an international threat, for which we must beware and against which we must make every effort. I also understand that the information is classified. What I would like to know is whether we are in the head of the peloton rather than in the lower regions in the field of cybersecurity. However, I understand, of course, that you cannot provide precise information on this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic119x.u28	Mr Minister, my introduction will be rather brief, even though yesterday's report was quite extensive. We read that there have been talks between yourself and NATO regarding defence policy and planning. NATO, the NATO representative or perhaps the NATO representative who spoke in his own name would have shed light on investment and on the future of defence. The newspapers explain this, but I do not want to go into it too deeply now. I am particularly curious if you can confirm that these talks have taken place. In that case, could you give some explanation? I suspect you will not be able to say much about it, but I would also like to know why such information, which the press believes is of a confidential nature, ends up in the press. This is not the first time that this has happened, and I do not think it is a good trend. Will the vision that NATO is developing have an impact on the strategic plan that is now under development? Of course, I'm curious what effect it will have.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic119x.u29	Mr Penris is absent. So his question lapses.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic119x.u30	Mr Minister, yesterday we read in the press that on 5 March you had a meeting with the Deputy Secretary-General for Defence Policy and Planning of NATO, General Heinrich Brauss. I would like to ask you a number of questions in this connection. Did he speak in his own name or did he give the vision of NATO? Can you explain for each of the components what tasks, what level of ambition, what number of troops, what investments and what capacity General Brauss advised to maintain and which he advised against? What justification did he give for that? Is there a document with his vision? According to the comment in De Standaard he made rather radical choices, with which we do not necessarily agree. In any case, one cannot blame him for having a lack of vision, and it would be interesting to see that a document exists. If that's the case, I'd like to get a copy of it. Has the General also said why he gave this opinion with concrete recommendations on the removal or retention of capacity to you alone, to the Minister, and not to the Chamber? On 28 January there was a hearing on the National Defence Commission with a representative of NATO, Jamie Shea. We didn't get that message back then. However, Jamie Shea is also highly placed within NATO. So, unlike Mr Buysrogge, I think it is very good that this is published in the newspaper, because it seems that NATO is delivering two different messages, one for the minister and another for Parliament. If we invite someone from NATO to represent NATO's vision of defence, it would be more pleasant if he were to reflect the same vision as the vision that is being communicated to the Minister a few weeks later. What is the point of inviting NATO if two top people bring a different message? Basically, if we follow NATO's vision, this means that Belgium is replacing the F-16s and actually bombing only. Otherwise, there will be no budget. This means that Belgium can make a cross over its other interesting specialties, such as mine clearance, transport and special forces, because that will no longer be money. However, these specialities are also important in conflict. They are also important in an integrated defence. Those are abilities that one needs. As far as the replacement of the frigates is concerned, it is very far-reaching. I thought the N-VA was one of the main proponents of Benelux cooperation? If the frigates are not replaced, the whole of Benelux cooperation will be called into question, because they are the crown jewel. That was also the message from the Dutch Chief of Defense in the Chamber. If Belgium does not replace the frigates, this whole military cooperation will be in trouble.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic119x.u31	Minister, my introduction may be brief. The previous speakers have already referred to yesterday's article in De Standaard, in which Heinrich Brauss, the Deputy Secretary-General for Defence Policy and Planning of NATO, commented on the Belgian army and on the rehabilitation for which this department stands. I'll save my comments for later. I'd like to hear from you whether the presentation of the conversations in the newspaper is correct? Does the content of the article correspond to the content of the conversations? I would also like to know whether you share Mr Heinrich Brauss' opinion. Have any agreements been made with NATO in this respect? If so, which one? In addition to Mr De Vriendt's question, what influence does this have on the further cooperation with the Benelux countries and the Netherlands, and on the possible replacement of our frigates? I look forward to your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic119x.u32	Mr Penris, you can still ask your question about the future of Belgian frigates.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic119x.u33	Mr Minister, yesterday we read in the press that a top NATO official gave you advice on how to reorganise defence. He suggested that you should not bring out the cheese bowl, but that it might be useful to save entirely on certain components that are less important for NATO. Quite specifically, he suggested that it might be desirable to remove our frigates. I don't follow him in that, and I'll tell you why. Minister, I believe that as a seafaring nation we have a moral duty to combat piracy. That's what our frigates do excellently now. So I would not like to save on that. However, I would like to know your opinion on this. Madam President, a few weeks ago, when you agreed on the components that this committee would visit, I noticed that the Land Component and the Air Component, both in Flanders and Wallonia, were very much wanted. Also the Medical Component came into view, but everyone was silent about the Navy. I'm a little sorry about that. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are a maritime nation. I believe that we need our navy and will continue to need it. That's my personal vision. I would now like to know the Minister's views on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic119x.u34	I thank the gentlemen for their questions. It is, of course, very interesting to discuss what journalists have written in the newspaper. I confirm that on 5 March I exchanged a number of thoughts with Mr Brauss of NATO. I see this conversation as one of the many conversations I have had with stakeholders from different backgrounds and cultures, from unions to allies, such as the people of NATO, and people from the EU, the EDA and so on. I think this is normal. It is important that we exchange views with all stakeholders in preparation for our strategic plan. I will not go into the content. I consider these kinds of conversations to be man-to-man conversations. I will therefore not comment on the way in which this has ended up in the newspaper. I do not think it is appropriate, certainly not the conclusion that is being drawn from it, as if it were a dictatorship. Of course it's not. It's a consult. In our wisdom, we will do what is necessary for the strategic plan with the advice of the various partners we have consulted. I think I mentioned everything. It was an opinion from one of the many stakeholders. In fact, the newspaper mentioned things that would have been said during that conversation, and which are apparently accepted for true. You don't think I'm gonna let any newspaper decide what the architecture of the Defense Department will look like in the future, do you? Two weeks ago I saw the weekend edition of one newspaper, yesterday I saw another newspaper. There will still be newspapers coming up with their own image, but it would be a step too far to take that into account. Finally, to reply specifically to Mr De Vriendt's question, no formal document was presented. Only the trade unions bring concrete documents to such talks.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic119x.u35	Madam President, Minister, thank you for your reply. It seems to me to be a good thing that you have had a lot of discussions in preparation for the strategic vision texts you have announced. The fact that different messages are being delivered during these conversations makes sense to me. Your explanation does, however, mean that the picture that was put up in the press yesterday must be nuanced. I therefore believe that this was not brought by you, but by someone else in the press, someone with an agenda behind it. This indicates that there is some nervousness in the defense about your vision and your strategic note. We ourselves are eagerly looking forward to that note. I believe that the strategic options you will take will have to be decisive for the coming years. The image that was hung yesterday must be nuanced anyway.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic119x.u36	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it is not because von Clausewitz wrote nothing or little about the naval force in Vom Kriege that we should not cherish our navy. I continue to take this opportunity to lance for this interesting component.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic119x.u37	Madam President, Minister, thank you for your reply. Let me be clear: I do not think that anyone here has a problem with you having conversations with stakeholders and therefore with NATO. That's the most normal thing in the world. In fact, I found the contribution of the general in question more interesting than the exchanges of views we have already heard about the next strategic plan. After all, the general makes a number of choices, albeit they are not our choices. In fact, I suspect that the whole issue is a bit in your hands, because the government parties themselves have never made it a secret that they necessarily want to replace the F-16s, at all costs, with an immense budget. You now have an organisation, NATO, which, unfortunately, supports you in this. You're on the same page. For the rest, it is with burning curiosity waiting for your next strategic plan. I just want to ask you to make choices. I hope you will step away from the cheese-schaaf, because the shelf life of the cheese-schaaf will come into sight. So we have to make choices. I believe that this is the consequence of the budget. I do not think it is right that NATO should send Parliament a different message than the Minister. I find that rather problematic. We are trying to be as deeply digging as possible about the future of defence, and the best and most exciting part is reserved by NATO for the Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic119x.u38	Madam President, Minister, first of all I would like to thank you for the answer. I haven't heard from you any denial or denial that there has been a conversation. Mr De Vriendt rightly said that it makes sense for you to have discussions with a number of stakeholders in order to achieve a vision. That is, of course, the most normal thing in the world. However, I have a reflection on the newspaper articles. The press must, of course, do its job. It's a good thing those people are doing their jobs. If they can collect information, they must also publish it. That's their job. However, I am concerned that the content of your conversations will be published in the newspapers. If every conversation you make is in the papers in the future, then I have my doubts. Either the communication is as leaky as a sieve, or it is consciously organized for whose benefit press leaks to influence the vision you have prepared. My greatest concern relates to the hearing on 28 January. At that time we received a representative from NATO. If I remember correctly, I have just looked at the report from that sitting, and I did not hear anything about whether or not to keep the frigates. You described it in your reply as a stakeholder opinion. If I understand correctly, NATO is one whole. I therefore have reservations about the fact that there seems to be a difference of opinion between the person who explained himself here on 28 January and Mr Heinrich Brauss. I wonder what language one speaks in NATO and who we should believe now.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic119x.u39	(...).
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic119x.u40	I do wonder what it will ultimately be NATO's advice. Who are we supposed to believe in the end? I am eagerly looking forward to your visionary text.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic119x.u41	Minister, at the end of this Monday's National Security Council, the Prime Minister announced the revision of the level of threat by the OCAM to level 2 "with special attention" regarding specific places and interests. As a result, he announced that, at this stage, the safety device would remain unchanged invoking a "2+" level of safety. The Government Agreement envisaged the possibility of seeking military support in the event of a Level 3 threat. Here we return to Level 2, but the military presence is maintained. In this context, I would therefore like to ask you, Minister, the following questions. How do you look at the "fineness" of the threat scale at the disposal of the OCAM today? Does this scale allow the Defence to adapt to the "in-the-street" missions requested by the government? How can we explain that, despite the return to a level 2 level of security, the military presence on the streets is maintained? Did the protocol between the interior and your department provide for this situation? What are the budgetary consequences of this extension? Is there any certainty as to the legal basis for this presence of the military on the street? I am thinking in particular of the Integrated Police Act 1998 and its section 43. This article implies two cumulative conditions for the use of military personnel: an imminent threat and that the local or federal police do not have sufficient resources. According to the Act, the use of military personnel could only be made in the case of Level 4. Are you informed about this possibility? Finally, in the long term, what are the government's intentions regarding the presence of military personnel on the streets? Indeed, while it must be recognized that particular places or interests are the subject of a higher threat, this suggests that measures that are now seen as ad hoc support could, in the government's view, become a quasi-permanent mechanism. In such a case, what would be the consequences at your department level from a legislative point of view (conditions for the use of force, etc.).), equipment, budget and personnel? Will military unions be consulted in this context?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic119x.u42	Minister, on 9 March the OCAD decided that the threat level could be reduced from 3 to 2, with particular vigilance. This means that some specific institutions or places remain at level 3. At the Council of Ministers on 12 March it was decided to bring the capacity from 300 to 210 soldiers. The military do not seem to disappear from our street scene for the time being, because 210 soldiers are still being deployed. According to protocol, the military can only be deployed at threat level 3. The protocol is clear. Article 2 states: "This protocol can only be invoked in the case of an increased general threat level, i.e. from level 3. Using the military at the current level, level 2, is not quite in line with the protocol. I have the following questions. The protocol states that only from level 3 can the army be deployed on the street. The threat level was reduced to level 2, with particular vigilance, so some places seem to still have threat level 3. How can the military still be deployed? Is that what's going on with the protocol? Where does threat level 3 remain in place? Based on what criteria did the government decide to determine the number of soldiers on the street? What legal basis currently supports that decision? I think I remember that the first decision was taken on 16 January to deploy military forces on the street. The Protocol provides for a monthly evaluation. What is the evaluation after the second month of military deployment on the street?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic119x.u43	Minister, last week the decision to reduce the general threat level from level 3 to level 2 was taken. An attack is unlikely. At the same time, the military will be used to monitor certain buildings and persons who will still have threat level 3 as classification. We are talking here about a continued deployment of 210 soldiers on the street. I have a few questions in that regard. There are, of course, safety regulations that must be followed, but I am talking about the overall picture. What is the evolution of the total number of places and persons to be monitored since 17 January, since the decision has been taken? This goes back, of course, to the attack on the Jewish Museum, but what is the evolution from January 17, 2015 to today? A number of locations were already guarded by the police before the terrorist threat. What's been added since then? That is the underlying idea of this question. Which sites will be permanently monitored and which will not? Is the protocol of 17 January applicable to surveillance orders at threat level 2? That protocol was drawn up around threat level three. Now we're dealing with a general threat level 2, while there are still locations that have threat level 3 as classification. What is the estimated monthly cost of 210 military deployment? We have debated it a number of times here: there will always be an evaluation of this monitoring mission. What evaluation do the military themselves make of the security mission? Have they been in contact with the military or their trade union representatives? Finally, what does the monthly evaluation involve in any possible extension?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic119x.u44	Madam Chair, at the meeting of the National Defence Commission on February 25, 2015, I have already answered many questions on this subject. I also provided detailed explanations. Given that the OCAM has reduced the general level of the threat to 2, however with particular vigilance, and that the OCAM has maintained its assessment of the threat at level 3 for certain specific interests or institutions, the National Security Council has met and the government has analysed with the relevant services the security arrangements necessary to best respond to this development. The operation started with 230 people. On 22 January a total manpower of 300 soldiers was deployed and it was reduced to 240 soldiers on 16 March. The police and the Defense Department are currently determining what has already been done in the meantime, in accordance with the decision of the Council of Ministers of 13 March 2015. So that was decided at the Council of Ministers on 13 March and since Monday the maximum stakes have been 210. Perhaps it is important to reiterate once again that the Council of Ministers has set a maximum number of military forces that can be deployed in support of the police and that the technicians themselves decide where and in what way these people are deployed. Military personnel in the field are currently carrying out monitoring missions at certain sites whose threat level has been assessed by the OCAM at 3 levels. In this regard, the Government has approved in the Council of Ministers the amendment of the Memorandum of Understanding on Defence Support to Integrated Police Services for Monitoring Missions. Mr Top, the protocol to which you refer has been repealed and replaced by a new protocol, which forms the basis. The evaluation is the same as after the first month. Defense and police sit together about every two weeks to evaluate the operations and identify and resolve any problems. The stakes are seen as positive by the police. So far there have been no significant problems. As far as the individual military is concerned, I challenge you to address them myself. You'll meet them around here. They will be able to give you their opinion. I haven't met any of the people who have been deployed who have given me a negative reflection. The monthly costs for the deployment of 210 military personnel are estimated at 1.14 million euros. There's no impact on the defense budget. The implementation of personnel and equipment is organised in order to minimize the impact of this operation on training and normal operations. In addition, the tasks performed by the military in Belgium are useful training for certain skills which are also required in certain operations abroad. Finally, I would like to remind you that at the beginning of the operation, the Assistant Chief of Staff Operations and Training, Mr. Compernol, organized a meeting with the unions to inform them and answer their questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic119x.u45	I want to thank the minister for not answering my question. The basis of legality...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic119x.u46	I have answered written questions on this subject. Part of the full answer was included. There is the article of the Constitution that forms the basis of everything.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic119x.u47	It's for overseas operations.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic119x.u48	I'll give you a copy of the answers I've already given. This is an interesting discussion that has already taken place.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic119x.u49	It's not to argue.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic119x.u50	That's right!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic119x.u51	You know that a protocol is not the law, is not a legal basis. I'm just drawing attention to the fact that the day there's going to be a problem, we're not going to be legally sure. You know how this will happen: we will look for responsibility and it will be either the military or a member of the government, etc. I do not agree with that, but it is democracy.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic119x.u52	I shall add another comment and also make a comment on Mr Pirlot. In fact, I have a suspicion that only the protocol has been amended in order to allow the military to continue on the streets. I hope that this will be further developed in order to check whether this provides 100% certainty. I also note that by changing the protocol and the decision taken, we will have soldiers on the streets for a very long time. You can say, quite rightly, that the military are doing a very good job and are satisfied with the work they are allowed to do. However, I do not think it is appropriate at this time or in our country to continue to use the military for these tasks in this situation. I feel, and that is also our party's position, that these tasks should be carried out by police forces and not by military forces. I wonder where the democratic principles of our rule of law are when people go so far as to use military forces for a long or almost constant period of time.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic119x.u53	I also believe that extremism has no place in our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic119x.u54	Neither do I, just to be clear.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic119x.u55	That is a relief, Mr Top.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic119x.u56	I thank the Minister for the answers. I do not know whether you have answered the first question about the evolution of the number of places to be monitored, as far as that information can be released. I'm talking about the global figure. Is there an evolution there? We're descending to 210 military, so I'm assuming fewer places need to be guarded as well.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic119x.u57	I will try to provide a technical answer to that. When we look at the list of particularly vulnerable places published by OCAD in its opinion of 9 March, it is true that it does not differ from the list when we had a general level 3. Because there were no indications of an eminent threat at that time, the general level 3 was reduced to level 2, which means that the local police could operate more freely. OCAD shall provide a general list specified by the crisis centre. The security people, among themselves, deal with what needs they meet. In the Security Council, we assumed that the police could free up a piece of their capacity to take back a number of tasks. There are now fewer demands on the police. For example, they should no longer operate mordicus with two. Therefore, a difference could be made. But in what way that is actually introduced on the ground depends on the opportunity assessment of the security people themselves, it is to say the crisis center, federal police and defence. We have therefore reduced the number of military personnel because capacity has been released from the local police. The police note, however, that the list is now much larger than the list for Verviers, so to speak. The police just can't handle it yet. They do not have the resources and the capacity to do so and ask for the help of Defence. The Department of Defense is helping where it needs to be. In what way they put that concretely is a specific matter which they are discussing and this for obvious reasons. I have never mentioned specific places where people are posted before, and I will not do so now.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic119x.u58	That is not the question, Minister. It's just to have an idea. From your reply, I deduce that the 210 soldiers are being made available. Whether or not they are deployed depends on the demand and need of the police. The cost of the military...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic119x.u59	The 210 soldiers cost 1.14 million euros a month.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic119x.u60	1.14 million euros a month, okay.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic119x.u61	Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l Mrs Jadin's 3132 and 3133 are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic119x.u62	Minister, I repeat, I regret the cuts that are being made in the Defence. Following several cases these months, I heard that the physical fitness of our soldiers was again a goal that we wanted to pursue in the army. I approve of it. All the more so since we have a centre in Eupen which has a history of 125 years to which all the Eupenois are very attached. Unfortunately, the press is echoing rumours of closure again. Mr Minister, perhaps you could go there to see the importance of the institution and the dynamism of the institution and the willingness of all the players in the region to move this institution forward for many years. Can you, at this stage, give infirmations or confirmations of this rumor? I know there's a plan waiting for us in April. Do you already have any ideas, minister?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic119x.u63	Mrs Jadin, I can confirm that this is a rumor. In accordance with last October's government agreement, I will propose a strategic vision around Easter for the future of Defence that will lead to a well-structured strategic plan that will address the issue of the closure of some barracks or not. I can confirm that I have an appointment in the coming days with the Minister-President of the German-speaking Community. I'll be there. In order to prepare the strategic plan, I am also taking a tour of the whole of Belgium. I've visited a lot of barracks and places where we're active to get an idea of what's going on there. For the rest, I can tell you that this is a rumour and that the aim is not to close barracks but to make them more effective.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic119x.u64	[[...]]
