ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic163x.u1	Madam Minister, I rarely or never speak on local dossiers, but I may not be addressed on this subject on a daily basis, but on a weekly basis. That's what got me into the pen. A number of comments on the Lommel station and its services are therefore before you. I would like to sum up some of the comments. The journey time Lommel-Antwerp has been renewed since the introduction of the new timetable, although only four minutes, but the journey time is now ten minutes longer compared to ten years ago. On a journey time of less than an hour, that's quite a lot. The number of carriages to and from Lommel is constantly reduced. In the morning, at 07:40, there are only four carriages left, whereas there used to be six. At that moment it is rush hour and that means that many commuters get on the train and must immediately stand up without any comfort. Why the number of carriages has been reduced is a mystery to us. In the evening there is a similar story, because then only two carriages drive back to North Limburg and that is the minimum. Especially on Friday nights, when the students return, this is a serious problem. In addition, the direct train from Leuven to Lommel was abolished on Friday afternoon; that was also a student train. This means that all those passengers arrive on the train from Antwerp to Lommel from only two carriages. In addition, we see that the earliest trains and an additional peak hour train have simply been abolished in the new timetable. In the meantime, the Lommel station counter is permanently closed during the weekends. Very recently we have had to note that the city was not informed about this, there is simply a communication on the door of the window that the window will be closed for lack of staff. Madam Secretary, that is why I would like to ask you the following questions. Do you realise that services are falling so far that people are considering not using the train, because of this lack of service, public transport? Can you examine the possibility of providing more carriages? I'm not even asking for more trains, but at least for more carriages. Can you provide a solution to the shortage of staff, which means that the station desk must now be closed for a full month? In all areas, this means a decline in service provision. I hope you can give me some light in the darkness.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic163x.u2	Mr Vanvelthoven, in the new transport plan a first IR connection and an L-connection from Lommel towards Antwerp were indeed deleted in the morning. The reason for this is the low capacity utilisation of these trains on the route Neerpelt Mol. From Lommel all trains are now going to Hamont. The plan also takes into account more realistic journey and stop times and should contribute to improving the punctuality of rail traffic. The occupation figures show that trains to and from Lommel are theoretically not overcrowded. For the trains that run on Friday afternoon, SNCB will study the possibility of adapting the composition for students returning home. The Lommel railway station has been opened again since 20 April. SNCB informs us that the ATM works well and delivers dozens of bills a day.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic163x.u3	Madam Secretary, I note that the offer for the students will be examined further on Friday afternoon. I hope that we will be able to reach a conclusion on this in the near future.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic163x.u4	The combined questions Nos 3589 by Mr Van Hecke and 3611 by Mr Geerts were converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic163x.u5	Mr President, Minister, I would almost say that the game is on the wagon again. I mean that no longer than tomorrow evening in Grimbergen, a number of local and upper-level managers from the Flemish Rand come together and sue what many groups and citizens feel, in particular that the region has absolutely fallen into an unfair situation since the destruction of the Wathelet Plan in terms of the fair distribution of noise pollution. The destruction of the Wathelet plan, which I read Mr Wathelet himself paid the political price by continuing to defend it in the previous legislature, has the effect that the turn to the left and the various channels will no longer be used. I can only point out from my local mandate that noise pollution has increased considerably during the day, at the weekend, and that we are effectively concentrated. Especially the inhabitants of the Noordrand but also the inhabitants of Wezenbeek-Oppem, Kraainem and Tervuren will undoubtedly knock again at your door asking for a fair distribution. Contrary to a number of Brussels politicians, I am convinced that our region needs a strong airport, but also an airport that is accepted, the public support of which is supported. This can only be achieved by organising a fair distribution of the nuisance. Madam Secretary, I have a few questions. Has progress been made on a fundamental solution? What's it gonna look like? Will we have to live with this concentration forever? Has consultation already taken place with the region's regions? I should like to express my surprise at the fact that Brussels sometimes gives the signal that the airport can leave. Read: She may be moved to Charleroi. I am also surprised that it is particularly windy at the level of the Flemish Region regarding the concentration of noise pollution over the Flemish Rand. Is there consultation with the Flemish Government and the Flemish Minister for the Environment? If so, what have these talks resulted in? Does the Minister consider that the distribution of noise pollution is fair or not today? You know my opinion on this. This is not a sustainable situation for us. After all, there is no fair distribution. I'd like to know your opinion and the opinion of the federal government on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic163x.u6	I can assure you that I am fully committed to achieving structural solutions for all Brusselsers and local residents affected by airport activities. The distribution of noise is undoubtedly a common objective of the federal government and of the regions. There will be meetings to that effect. As a first step, the decision of 31 July 2014 had to be implemented, all the more so because the Brussels Region has called us to pay periodic penalty payments. That first step was accompanied by two noise-limiting measures, one at landing and one at take-off. Furthermore, I have asked Belgocontrol to provide me with an accurate monitoring every week in order to follow the strict application of the moratorium. Nevertheless, I can assure you that, in accordance with the coalition agreement, I am really looking for a structural solution that is adequate for everyone. You will agree with me that a dossier of this kind cannot be resolved in less than six months.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic163x.u7	Madam Secretary, you say that there will be meetings. I asked you a precise question, whether there was any consultation with the Regions. I can't get an answer to that. Instead, you tell me that there will be meetings and that structural solutions will be found. The only thing I know is that there is some kind of jubilation at the level of Brussels, where a number of responsible Brussels politicians are of opinion and also publicly say that this fair distribution will never come back. If that's the case, you'd better move that airport. I do not hear you say anything about my specific question concerning the attitude to concentration at the moment. I hear that a structural solution is being sought. I can only tell you that the pot is cooking. Hopefully it will not cook over, because that would mean that the legitimacy of the airport and the tolerance of the airport would be undermined. I fear that there will only then be cheering at a number of Brussels levels because the airport might then move to Charleroi. In other words, the difficult balance achieved following many Community consultations is now gone. All I see is a return to concentration. More than that, nothing has actually happened yet, despite the fact that it has been announced for months. I will therefore continue to insist, Madam Minister, that a fair distribution is effectively pursued. I will pull your sleeve over and over again in order to know what is going on with that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic163x.u8	Mr President, Madam Minister, following the implementation of the moratorium on the Wathelet plan, you announced that you had instructed Belgocontrol to put in place two so-called quick wins measures to reduce somewhat the noise generated by aircraft taking off and landing in Brussels. These measures are as follows: the expansion of continuous descent approaches (CDOs) for landings and the application of the NADP1 procedure for take-off. Since these measures are of a technical nature, I would like to have some explanations from you. According to a study by KU Leuven, the LCO has a slight positive effect on noise emissions in areas more than 15 km from the airport: an average gain of 2 dB for a medium-mail aircraft and 3 dB for a long-haul aircraft. I therefore note that this will probably solve nothing for the areas closest to the airport, in particular the municipalities of Woluwe-Saint-Pierre, Kraainem and Wezembeek-Oppem, which are under the road leading to Runway 01. According to the International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO), the NADP1 take-off procedure aims to reduce noise emissions in areas very close to the end of the runways. It is reported that there is also a NADP2 procedure, which involves reducing noise in more remote areas. While I understand the description made by the ICAO on its website, the NADP1 procedure consists of taking off at a reduced speed of up to 3,000 feet (900 metres). Something probably escapes me, but this should, on the contrary, cause more nuisance since the planes will fly over the city at low altitude. Up to now, it had always been recommended that aircraft take up altitude as quickly as possible, with a gradient of climb of at least 7. Minister, will the continuous descent be applied to all or only one part of the landings? It would appear that this procedure is only applicable under certain conditions, without significant traffic and under good climatic conditions. Will all types of aircraft (small, medium, large) be affected? Is this not just a plaster on a wooden leg? Why didn't you choose the NADP2 procedure? Do you maintain the climb gradient to 7? How soon will you propose further quick win measures?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic163x.u9	Upon landing, the CDO procedures demonstrated positive noise levels in the area between eight and twenty-five kilometres from the runways. In addition to the two runways 25, the application of these procedures will be generalised to the other runways at Brussels-National Airport: 01, 07R and 07L. CDO procedures designed to conduct a descent on a continuous vertical profile with minimum engine power can be applied night and day. It is true that the management of traffic and aviation safety does not allow systematic day and night use. On the other hand, we can tend to systematize their employment when traffic permits. NADP low-noise departure procedures optimize the aircraft climb profile in order to reduce the noise received on the ground depending on the areas over which the aircraft is flown. There are two types of NADP: firstly, a procedure for rapidly gaining altitude in order to reduce noise in the direct vicinity of the airport (NADP1), and secondly, a procedure for speeding up speed in order to reduce power and noise at a greater distance from the airport (NADP2). It was proposed that the use of NADP1-type low-noise departure procedures be introduced. The reduction would be in the order of three to eight decibels depending on the category of device. Specifically, MP, with NADP1, fuel consumption in the initial upscaling phase would be slightly increased by 3%, while nitrogen oxide emissions would be reduced by 15% to 20%. These measures will not entirely solve the issue of overflight, I agree, but they have the merit of being taken quickly and producing real gains in order to reduce noise nuisances for all citizens. I am now looking for a structural solution.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic163x.u10	Minister, in terms of consumption, you can say that you know how to speak to an environmental MP! I understand the procedure of continuous descent and note that the reduction of noise is detectable for areas of eight to twenty-five kilometres. This will have a very positive effect on the Walloon Brabant, and we can rejoice. On the other hand, the extremely overly overlying municipalities, such as Kraainem, Wezembeek-Oppem and Woluwe-Saint-Pierre, will not benefit much from the effects of this quick win, but it's no big deal... As you say, we must continue to work on structural solutions. We are waiting for you on this issue. As far as NADP 1 and 2 is concerned, I have understood the subtlety of it. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic163x.u11	Mr. Chair, Minister, the moratorium on the Wathelet Plan came into effect on April 2. However, since then, several inhabitants of Brussels have reported the presence of aircraft over neighbourhoods which, in principle, should no longer be flown over. I am not going to go into the details in my written question. However, I can tell you that a resident of Uccle has found that eight aircraft have passed at very low altitudes at times when there should not be any; that a resident of Auderghem has noticed noises at take-off; that a resident of Ixelles has reported aircraft flying at very low altitude; that a resident of Etterbeek, who wrote to you on 16 April, reports that a great number of aircraft are still flying over Montgomery, Thieffry and Pétillon and, finally, that a resident of Watermael-Boitsfort noticed at the beginning of April that his commune was heavily overflewed. I sent you screenshots of the radar positions that attest to these overflights. Minister, what explanation do you give for the observations made by these residents, both in Uccle (channel road) and in Ixelles (landing loop) and in Auderghem or Etterbeek (wide left turn)? Is the moratorium fully implemented by Belgocontrol? The question can be asked, since planes are where they shouldn't be. And if this is not the case, what measures are you planning to take to enforce the moratorium or to put an end to this loop on landing over Brussels, since despite the implementation of the moratorium at the Wathelet Plan, there is still a loop over Brussels?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic163x.u12	Mr Hellings, Brussels was already flying by some take-offs and landings from Brussels-National airport before 6 February 2014. The moratorium only restored the existing situation on that date. With regard to the observations made at Uccle for the canal route, the number of flights on this route has decreased considerably as a result of the introduction of the moratorium, particularly the number of flights by large carriers. However, this route remains in use during Saturday and Sunday for all south-westerly flights as well as at night for low-noise aircraft, as was the case before February 2014. As far as the observations made at Alderghem are concerned, the situation varies greatly from one neighbourhood to another. The removal of the wide turn has relieved many neighbourhoods. The return to the old roads, on the other hand, meant the return to the existing overflight before February 2014 for other neighborhoods. Belgocontrol has been instructed to conduct a continuous monitoring of the situation in the form of a weekly report to which I will be very attentive. This report will also be available on the website.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic163x.u13	Minister, you did not answer the question about the persistent landing loop. I may be filing a written question on this subject. I will be attentive to the information you will disclose on the website.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic163x.u14	Mr. Chair, Minister, the moratorium on the Wathelet Plan came into effect on April 2. The residents of the neighbourhoods around the canal have been able to observe with satisfaction, as you have just said, that since then the number of night flights (from 11 p.m. to 6 p.m.) on this road has decreased substantially. It would appear that the implementation of the moratorium you have just mentioned coincided with the update in the Aeronautical Information Publication (AIP) of the list of aeroplanes authorized to take the canal route by night, with the obligation to respect at night a maximum count quota of 4. This was planned at the time of the creation of the road in 2003 by Ms. Onkelinx, after Ms. Durant, but had never been implemented. The moratorium that you have put into effect marks very positively its effects on this road, which overflew the most densely populated area not only in Brussels, but also in the country, and still causes nuisances for more than 390,000 citizens, according to the so-called ULB study. Minister, can you tell me how many aircraft have been flying over the canal at night since the moratorium came into effect on April 2, 2015? Can you confirm to me that you will not question, in the near or distant future, all the decisions and therefore the improvements known on this route of the canal since then?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic163x.u15	Madam Minister, my question is in line with that of Mr Hellings. After the moratorium on the Wathelet plan, the night-time use of the channel route is on the agenda. Mr Hellings spoke of a mise à jour of the AIP, but we do not really see why a mise à jour was needed. In the AIP that I took over in my written precipitation, about one hundred aircraft types with a QC lower or equal to 4 were originally allowed. We note that the number of aircraft types was reduced to about ten aircraft instead of one hundred by talking about the potentialling QC 4 versus the effectivity QC 4. Let me clarify this with an example. Suppose a Volkswagen can have an engine of 1 400 cc or 2 000 cc, and one pretends that it always contains 2 000 cc, which is not true. Madam Secretary, I have a lot of questions here. Why do we use that terminology? Why didn't they just return to the old list in implementation of the coalition agreement? What is the average number of movements of aircraft with a QC +4 but also with a QC +4, effective and not only potential, which is unduly shifted to the North Edge? In what way will you solve the problem? That can be quite easy by simply retaking the old list and saying that it must be effective to fly with a QC. In addition, due to a return to the old situation, there remains a demand for the evaluation of the routes launched on 9 January and 6 March. They will be evaluated and adapted where necessary in order to provide acceptable solutions. Where are the evaluations as agreed in the coalition agreement?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic163x.u16	Madam Minister, Mrs Becq has already outlined it very clearly. In the government agreement, we chose to maintain the airport agreements of December 2008 and February 2010 as a basis for noise policy. In point 2.1 of the last airport agreement we read that the channel route for night flights is used by aircraft with a QC smaller or equal to 4 and by aircraft equipped with Precision Area Navigation. In the AIP this has been translated into a list of a hundred different devices. We have indeed noted the changes. Now there are still about thirty, so many of the devices that use the ring route today at night do not have a QC of 4 but sometimes of 3, of 2 or even less. That does not seem to me to be entirely in line with the agreements. On the Brussels Airport website you will find the job usage and the excited routes. While in January 2014, before aircraft made the turn to the left and started to use the channel route more intensively, for example the Boeings 757 and 737 were neatly on the channel route, they have been flying since 2 April towards Chièvres 3C, so the ring route. That's the ring route. It's about 5 to 7 devices per night. We have 17 to 19 planes in an average night. That is a very important part. I believe that this is very far from the government agreement and the 2010 agreement. So I have a number of questions about this. Firstly, can you tell me how a revision of the list was decided? Who ordered this? How are we supposed to place that in front of the quoted passage of the airport agreement? Secondly, will you take the necessary steps, so that aircraft with a QC lower or equal to 4 will effectively use the channel route? Will you correct that in the shortest possible way, namely through NOTAM?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic163x.u17	First of all, I would like to reiterate that I am sticking to the coalition agreement. My instruction has been clear in that sense, in particular a return to the situation prior to 6 February 2013. From the list of aircraft admitted to the channel route, I wish to give a chronological overview. The list applicable dates from 2003 and already applied the criterion to include aircraft with a QC value below or equal to 4. That list was therefore 12 years old. Belgocontrol and DGLV wanted to take the opportunity to update the list and adapt it to the current situation. However, I must admit that the criteria taken into account for this purpose are purely theoretical criteria based on international standards. That explains the cut-off from the list. Certain types of aircraft calling at Brussels national level also meet the criteria laid down. I have therefore asked Belgocontrol and DGTA, with the assistance of Brussels Airport Company, to update this list, first taking into account compliance with the quota count, and then including all types of compliant aircraft operating in Brussels-National. I would ask that this list be reviewed on a regular basis to ensure that these principles are respected. Finally, the evaluation of the routes of 9 January and 6 March 2014 is still ongoing. Of course, I will not fail to inform you of this when I will have the evaluation and have analysed it. I am now looking for a structural solution that will seek to avoid densely populated areas and the canal road.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic163x.u18	Minister, I fully agree with you. It is the most densely populated road on the roads around the airport. As you said, at the time this road was defined, in 2003, with the establishment of the canal road, also known as the Onkelinx road, the quota count, less than or equal to 4, had been specified as a standard, given the population density already under that road. We will therefore pay close attention to any changes that you may consider or that Belgocontrol will consider in order to take into account this essential criterion, namely population density and hence its non-submission to the quota count above 4.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic163x.u19	Madam Secretary, on the one hand you say that you will implement the coalition agreement. For us, this means that you are effectively returning to the former situation. I heard you say very clearly that it was a theoretical list. We are talking about effectiveness. If I can place an engine of 1 000 cc in a body of a car and an engine of 2 000 cc in another body, then I must not just mention the body, but also make clear which engine I will use. So you must return to the former list and you may, for all I care, put that it should be about devices that are not theoretical but effective, and realité.... below or equal to the 4 QC. At that time, you will comply with the commitments made. I understand that you have given the order to return to the former situation, but by playing with the concepts of effectiveness and theory there is some deception. I would like you, Madam Secretary, to rectify the situation as quickly as possible through a NOTAM.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic163x.u20	Madam Minister, I think it is clear that you have given the mandate to apply the QC criterion less than equal to 4. In practice, we find that this has not entirely been done in the right way. Lists are available to determine the QC value for each device. That is also why I mentioned in my question that some of those devices indeed have a QC of 2 or 3. This means that we can specifically determine which devices and which devices do not have to go over the ring route or the channel route. I believe that we must apply the agreement correctly. I have heard the same thing with Mr Hellings, by the way. In this way, all aircraft with a QC of more than 4 cyclists can use the ring route at night and all other aircraft can use the channel route. This seems to me to be a fair and fair distribution, which was agreed in the airport agreement, which was approved by almost all the parties in this country. You must do so as soon as possible so that we do not have to add the problem to the problems of nuisance that exist today. That is another problem less to address in the larger airport agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic163x.u21	Mr President, Minister, I am not going to give a long introduction. In the past, we have had an opportunity to discuss the problems of the Vilvoorde station. I just want to reiterate that about all the arguments that could be made from the local level have been given, up to and including the remark that before you were given the effective authority, there was also a mandate from Infrabel and SNCB to begin the purely necessary improvement work. That order to start was there. It was the new government, with your authority as Minister, which put the necessary renovations on hold at a certain time at eleven o'clock. I particularly appreciated the fact that my colleague, Mrs Becq, also announced to the public at one point that you would be making a work visit, which was not possible for all kinds of reasons. The reason I would like to ask you again today, with a number of specific questions, is to avoid governments flying each other through courts. That's about the situation we ended up in. We'll have to try to prove ourselves right through the judge. That is the last thing I wish to do as a democratic politician, but it is necessary to do so, if only, Madam Minister, because we also have a number of files of people who have had accidents due to the appalling situation of the station, especially of the stairs and platforms, with physical damage. Before using all this, I would like to urge the federal government once again and ask her to reverse her decision not to allow the renovation to continue. That is why I ask you if you have any plans to come by during a work visit. We have all been able to observe that even very rudimentary works, such as the replacement of a broken-in window, are no longer carried out. The people who work there I've seen working on a cardboard panel and tape they bought in the local GiFi store to close the window. While the travelers are out there. That is the situation in which public transport and the reception of passengers in my city take place. Madam Secretary, can you tell me if there are any new elements in the file? Do you think it is possible that, in the short term, work will be carried out on the urgent and necessary renovation work that has already been decided upon? I look forward to your answer, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic163x.u22	I had to cancel my scheduled visit to the Vilvoorde station in February because my presence was required at a meeting of the Consultative Committee which was held the same day. I will visit the Vilvoorde station when the process of updating the multi-annual investment plan is sufficiently advanced to have more precise prospects for the implementation of the various projects contained in it. SNCB informs me that it is still planning repairs in June, such as the replacement of broken glass, the local repair of the platform floor and the replacement of the wooden benches. No new element is envisaged before the multiannual investment plan is updated. In the meantime, urgent work will continue to be carried out, as is the case today.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic163x.u23	Madam Secretary, you are most welcome in Vilvoorde. You know that. I have also heard your argument informally. It is legitimate for you to apologize at that time for not being able to attend work, but can you give me a moment when the update of the multiannual plan is about to take place?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic163x.u24	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic163x.u25	I look forward to the results of that update. The people have been demoralized, Madam Secretary, after years of pressing. You know the station is on the oldest line on the continent. You must have learned that in the history books. It concerns the Brussels-Mechelen line, with the first stopover in Vilvoorde. Someone who has been trained in the history of our rail network has explained that since the construction of the Vilvoorde station at the platform level, no investment has taken place. After years of pressing, there was a decision that there would be a renovation. Everyone was satisfied and doubled to allow the station to function in the maximum possible conditions. At the moment, that energy is souped up. If anything's broken, I'm asking you not to let people drag cardboard boxes from the local bakery and sticky tape from the store to seal windows. A minimum of respect for the employees is okay. I look forward to the results of the announced update of the investment plan and I hope that common sense will return to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic163x.u26	Madam Minister, my question concerns another dossier that takes place in the immediate vicinity of my city and is part of the GEN network. The Flemish government pays particular attention to the small station Buda. In the history of our country this is not an unknown station, a typical shuttle station. However, the station should be moved to Machelen-Kerklan, especially in order to facilitate the opening of Uplace, a major project which Flanders attaches particular importance to, even to the extent that it requires a permit. That's what the Flemish decision says. It is remarkable that the Flemish government is linking its decision to the decision of the federal government and then to an autonomous public body. In any event, the Flemish Government states that the Uplace file can only continue if Infrabel is authorised to transfer the station from Buda to Machelen-Kerklaan. That is strange, Madam Secretary. In the region, the Vilvoorde station is the central station, but it must wait for investment. Suddenly the site on Machelen-Kerklan is communicated in this way. For the sake of clarity, the town council of Vilvoorde and the municipal administration of Machelen are particularly pleased to consider turning Machelen-Kerklaan into a fully-fledged station, although we are asking for a certain level of alertness with regard to accessibility for people who are less mobile. What is the status of the Machelen-Kerklan stop? Is the ongoing multi-annual investment plan, which is under review, providing funds for construction? What is a realistic timing for the realization of the stop? Will the stop also be accessible to wheelchair patients? Is it true that the Flemish government is willing to co-finance the construction of the station? Have any agreements been reached on this? Are there any contributions planned by the private developer, especially Uplace? Is there an agreement on the financing in which the Flemish Region and/or a private partner will finance part of the costs for the stop Machelen-Kerklan? If that's the case, I'd like to have access to that agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic163x.u27	Mr President, Mr Bonte, in view of the urban developments in the environment and the resulting demand for mobility, SNCB includes the relocation of the Buda stop to Machelen in its draft investment proposals for the period 2016-2030. A cooperation agreement between SNCB, Vilvoorde and Machelen on the establishment of the site's surroundings is in preparation. SNCB plans to submit the application for an urban permit at the end of July 2015. The accessibility of the stop will be further investigated. In principle the stop is accessible with fixed stairs from the Kerklaan and with ramps from the Nieuwbrugstraat. The total investment has been estimated at EUR 3.2 million, of which EUR 1.2 million will be borne by Infrabel and EUR 2 million by SNCB. SNCB is not aware of any co-financing by the Flemish Region or by third parties.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic163x.u28	Madam Secretary, I hear it thundering in Cologne. You refer to an agreement between Vilvoorde, Machelen and SNCB. I know there are negotiations on this. I would like to tell you that one of the bottlenecks for Vilvoorde and Machelen is that there must also be access for wheelchair patients. I don't hear you saying this is on the program. I wonder therefore whether you can assume that an agreement will be reached. A building application will be submitted in July 2015 and then proposals to subscribe funds to a multi-annual financing plan, with a distribution of 1.2 million euros and 2 million euros. I have seen in the file of Vilvoorde station one building permit after the other lapse, because no budget was foreseen. A building request is submitted and even announces the construction works. However, no budget is foreseen and the request for construction is subject to a statute of limitations and destruction. That's what I'm going through in Vilvoorde. You say that there is no agreement yet between the three parties, but that a building application will be submitted in July 2015 and funds will be entered in the multi-annual investment plan. I can only show my surprise. The pressure from certain circles must be particularly high in order to be so concrete and commit to a building application even before there is a budget and an agreement has been reached between the three parties. It is a very curious finding that apparently that federally autonomous company simply writes the desiderata of the Flemish government on its account, also against the will of the local directors. Madam Secretary, I take note of that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic163x.u29	Questions Nos 3797, 3798, 3814 and 3815 by Mr Devin are postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic163x.u30	Madam Minister, the government agreement states that the routes introduced on 9 January 2014 and 6 March 2014 will be evaluated and adjusted where necessary in the context of an acceptable solution. Some time ago, I asked you about this evaluation. Meanwhile, an environmental strike was filed against the flight route and the corresponding concentration of aircraft noise in the region north and east of Leuven by the municipalities of Aarschot, Haacht, Rotselaar and Holsbeek. That is what it says in the press release that was circulated on this subject. You assured us in the past that we will be consulted in the near future on the elaboration of the policy measure announced in the coalition agreement. Can you give me an update on the evaluation and talks with the Regions? What is your view on the legal step taken by the various affected municipalities? Will the State defend itself in this matter? Is it true that no lawyer was appointed for this? What's the reason for this? Are you going to wait for the verdict of the trial to take further steps towards a balanced solution or are you going to be proactive in reaching a supported decision?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic163x.u31	Mr Wollants, the evaluation of the routes of 9 January 2013 and 6 March 2013 is currently being analysed by Belgocontrol. Of course, I will inform the Regions and the provinces as well as the neighborhood residents. We understand the views of the demanding municipalities. Nevertheless, they represent only one position. As a Federal Minister for Mobility and as a result of the various institutional reforms, I have only one competence in this matter, in particular the power to set up routes. Consequently, I am obliged to consider the importance of the country and therefore of the three regions of the island. The Belgian State has appointed a law firm that will intervene to defend its interests if no friendly settlement can be reached. It is not excluded that the Belgian State should be convicted and periodic penalty payments imposed. When a verdict is pronounced according to this hypothesis, we will change our strategy. We develop a defense strategy and do not wait for a conviction to act.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic163x.u32	Madam Minister, we must above all ensure that, together with the Regions, we keep our playing field as wide as possible, so that we also have as much margin as possible to find a good solution for everyone. What you are proposing seems to me to be a good approach. It is true that this requires a lot of preparatory work. We are well aware of that. Many ministers have already bitten their teeth on that. Mr Bonte spoke just now about the steps to be taken. I may be mistaken, but then Minister Landuyt did not come very far either. In this respect, we all know that it is an important aspect.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic163x.u33	Mr President, I would like to take the floor for a personal statement.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic163x.u34	During oral questions in committee, you cannot ask for the floor for a personal statement.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic163x.u35	Mr Bonte, in committee you cannot use the right to speak for a personal fact.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic163x.u36	According to the Rules of Procedure, there is no personal fact in the case of oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic163x.u37	However, the Rules of Procedure state that one can ask for the floor for a personal statement. Mr Wollants, you refer to what I said and I would like to respond briefly. It is indeed a very difficult and complex dossier, a fucking file.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic163x.u38	Mr Bonte, I did not give you the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic163x.u39	Oh, oh, The light on my microphone is still on.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic163x.u40	Mr Bonte, according to the committee secretary, the use of the personal fact applies to the plenary, but not to a questioning session at a committee meeting.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic163x.u41	It's a nice tradition, though.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic163x.u42	In the plenary.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic163x.u43	But not on committees?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic163x.u44	No.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic163x.u45	Okay.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic163x.u46	Madam Secretary, to conclude, I think there is still some preparatory work to be done. We are looking forward to all these evaluations and work, because it seems to us that there is an urgent need for them.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic163x.u47	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Dumery's 3831 will be converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament 3847 by Mr Geerts was already discussed in plenary last week. Mr Geerts would be on his way, so I suggest that we deal first with the question under the next item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic163x.u48	Mr President, Madam Minister, at the end of March, we learned that SNCB had chosen the Argos Soditic Group's offer to subscribe to a capital increase from its SNCB Logistics freight subsidiary. At the end of the transaction, Argos Soditic is expected to hold 66.6% of Logistics' capital and is expected to hold a dominant position with seven representatives versus two in SNCB. The 20 million euros put on the table by Argos seem derisory to the current potential of Logistics. Indeed, after a period of heavy losses, Logistics made an operating profit for the first time in 2013. This was also the case in 2014 and the net profit is in sight. The initial value of the company in January 2011 was estimated at €510 million. SNCB had deposited buildings, land, 200 locomotives and 7,000 cars in the capital of Logistics. Moreover, the debt burden of Logistics' business is borne by SNCB, therefore by the public authorities and, ultimately, the citizens, all the more so since the investor in question is already announcing the resale of its shares with profit in five years! At first glance, this is very much like a loose movement of a form of privatisation of profits and mutualisation of losses on the backs of the state and our fellow citizens. Minister, can you reassure me that this transaction is justified by the general interest and the proper use of public funds? Moreover, the CGSP-cheminots raises the question of the legality of the operation. Does Argos' majority arrival in Logistics comply with the agreement imposed by Europe to accept a single and last aid when creating the commodity subsidiary? This Convention provides in particular for the prohibition of partial or total sale for a period of 10 years, i.e. until the end of 2020. Finally, will the arrival of a private partner not pose a problem to the European Commission as regards the legality of federal public aid for the freight transport sector?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic163x.u49	Mr Cheron, unfortunately, the information in the press to which you refer is not entirely complete and accurate. As a reminder, the activities of SNCB Logistics are business activities carried out in a competitive environment. Furthermore, the finalization of the operation is still the subject of confidential negotiations between the parties. In the interest of the matter, it is important that these negotiations can take place in complete serenity. So I will stick to the essentials. On 29 May 2010, the European Commission approved the restructuring plan for SNCB's freight business, one of which was the filialisation of freight activities within the SNCB Logistics SA. Although SNCB Logistics was able to comply with the restructuring plan with regard to the control of its costs, it became apparent from the end of 2012 that the development of the rail transport market would not allow the company to achieve the profit results within the originally envisaged time frame. Therefore, there was a need to strengthen own funds. Depending on European state aid rules, such a reinforcement could not be ensured by SNCB acting alone, hence the SNCB's search for an external solution to the operational strengthening of SNCB Logistics since the beginning of 2013. Several solutions have been studied in depth, including partnership with major European rail freight operators. All potential investors were given the opportunity to submit the offer. At the end of this process, the choice was made for the most advantageous offer with regard to the provision of additional resources to SNCB Logistics and the commitments requested from SNCB. Contrary to the press statement, no provision for the sale of SNCB Logistics is included in the conditions imposed by the European Commission on the 2010-2011 restructuring. Moreover, the proposed transaction does not constitute a sale of SNCB's shares in SNCB Logistics, but an increase in SNCB Logistics' capital by a third party. Contacts with the European Commission are already planned. The file of subsidies to rail freight is not linked to that of SNCB Logistics except that SNCB Logistics is historically one of the users of these subsidies. Federal State aid to the freight transport sector is accessible in a non-discriminatory manner to all rail freight operators in Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic163x.u50	Mr President, I thank the Minister for her answers. I specify that my questions were indeed based on a number of information from which I quoted the sources and that the press itself had its own sources, in this case CGSP Cheminots. We will tell them that their legal study seems contradicted by the minister's arguments, and I assume that of SNCB. I take note of his answers both to the question of the legality of the operation under way and to the question of public aid, and therefore State aid. They seem to confirm that there are no problems at this stage. I will not fail to continue following this ongoing operation with the hope that it will end at best in the interests of SNCB and, above all, the overall recovery of the main activity carried out today by SNCB Logistics.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic163x.u51	Mr Dedecker cannot be present to put his question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic163x.u52	Madam Minister, last week Mr Van den Bergh made the move towards this question. Yesterday, we already asked questions about this to Minister De Croo, because we thought that in the approach there is a dual competence, on the one hand, of the BIPT, on the other hand, of Infrabel. It is about the fact that Infrabel has asked the mobile operators to weaken the signal from the masts near a number of signal houses, within the framework of the GSM-R network. Apparently there would be interferences on the 900 megahertz band on the GSM-R network. We have asked for an opinion within the scope of the BIPT. Maybe you got the answer from Minister De Croo through your associates. On the one hand, it would be a good idea to consult with Infrabel, on the other hand, and on the other hand, filters could be placed at the level of the GSM-R receivers. That's one part of the story. For the other part of the story, I'll come back to you. We understand that this weakening is required for the safety and transmission of signals in the context of the ETCS 2 project. What consequences will this have for the commuters on the trains? To what extent, according to Infrabel or according to you, has there already been a collaboration with BIPT? Minister De Croo says BIPT organised a public consultation on 25 February. How's that going? I have one last question that can be asked here in the margin. A project was announced to organize a Wi-Fi connection on the train. To what extent is this then compatible with the current demand to transmit and assign reduced data?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic163x.u53	I am happy to support this with my questions. The problem has already been outlined by Mr Geerts. Last week there was indeed a hearing in committee with the CEO and the chairman of Belgacom-Proximus. They confirm that Infrabel had asked them to weaken the mobile signal, which seems to contradict SNCB's ambition to provide good connections to the trains. This is gonna raise some questions. Can Infrabel ask the mobile operators to reduce their signals near railways? Under what rules should this be done? To what extent do the mobile operators respond to Infrabel's demand to do so effectively? To what extent are Infrabel's demand to weaken the signal and SNCB's future pilot project to strengthen signals compatible? Has there been any consultation between Infrabel, SNCB and BIPT on signal strength near railways? If so, what were the findings? Has there been any consultation between Infrabel, SNCB and BIPT on the pilot project Wi-Fi on trains? If so, what were the findings? How does SNCB see the future of its own GSM-R network? What role does this network have for locating and guiding trains?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic163x.u54	For residents, the proposed restrictions will be compensated by a more optimal coverage of the territory by the different mobile operators. On the other hand, for the commuters on the trains, this weakening will not make any difference in practice. An adequate solution to the known problems depends on the installation of adapted equipment on the train carriages. SNCB is currently working on a pilot project to improve Wi-Fi reception in its carriages. Infrabel and BIPT set up a working group on this issue years ago. Inspired by the Electronic Communications Committee, BIPT has recently submitted a decision proposal on this subject. The proposal is still under examination. The mobile operators will eventually follow the rules that will be imposed by BIPT. There is no synergy between the management of the GSM-R network for rail traffic and the networks of mobile operators. According to the BIPT and the Electronic Communications Committee, a reduction in signal strength transmitted by mobile operators can ensure that GSM-R signals are no longer disturbed. GSM-R signals are also an indispensable tool for ensuring railway safety in the framework of ETCS investments. By asking mobile operators to set up pylons along the tracks, the reception in the train carriages is improved, but not all the known problems of poor reception in the carriages are addressed. For Wi-Fi reception in the train carriages, the role of Infrabel is limited to the inn of antennas 3G and 4G along the tracks and on its pylons. Infrabel is also not involved in the SNCB pilot project. The GSM-R network uses a specific frequency band within the 900 megahertz band, which connects to the mobile operators' band. The interference cases cause dysfunctions of GSM-R and are of the connection type. The GSM-R reception element is disrupted by a signal from a neighbouring mobile operator, which is much stronger than the GSM-R signal. Given the importance of the GSM-R signal for safety, high reception quality is required and no disturbance of that signal can be allowed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic163x.u55	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply. I want to focus on one aspect. The GSM-R network is not only Belgian. It is a European system that the other infrastructure managers must take into account. It is therefore likely that the debate should be conducted not only here but also in other countries. The only thing I would like to add here is that you can give me the answer in writing, if you like, if you like, in writing. Minister De Croo said yesterday that the BIPT in the working group indicated that in the longer term filters on the receiving application of the GSM-R network should be placed in the signal houses. Is a budget earmarked to achieve this in the long term? That seems to be the essence of the conclusion that Minister De Croo made yesterday on behalf of the BIPT.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic163x.u56	Mr President, Minister, I would particularly like to thank you for your reply. It is somewhat curious that a weakening would have no effect on reception for the residents or users on the train. However, if that is stated, it will probably be correct. In any case, thank you for your answer. Of course, the safety and security of the GSM-R network are essential. Quality care in the area of mobile reception for passengers as well as internet reception via 2G, 3G and 4G are also an important concern for travellers. One doesn't have to rule out the other. It is important that a future management agreement pays due attention to this.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic163x.u57	Madam Minister, I do not know whether you would like to respond to Mr Geerts' supplementary question? You don't want to do that immediately.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic163x.u58	Mr.President, Minister, the punctuality figures released by Infrabel for February 2015 are generally positive, which is good news. However, by looking more precisely at the situation per line, the results obtained for lines 94 (Tournai-Brussels) and 96 (Mons-Brussels) are challenging. Indeed, punctuality on these two lines is catastrophic and systematically worse than elsewhere. This is particularly the case at morning peak hours, with only 68.7% of L94 morning trains and 64.8% of L96 trains arriving on time or less than 6 minutes late. Minister, what are the causes of this particular situation? What steps will be taken by SNCB and Infrabel to remedy this as quickly as possible?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic163x.u59	Mr President, the new transport plan can generally be seen as a success. However, punctuality problems were noted on line 96. These problems affect the punctuality of line 94 from Hal. The detailed figures of the punctuality of these two lines in morning peak hours and, overall, for the first quarter of 2014 and 2015 will be provided to you. Since the introduction of the new transport plan, the punctuality of lines 94 and 96 has been negatively affected by third-party incidents (persons on tracks, cable flights, accidents at level crossings), the numerous physical incidents and the difficulty of receiving trains at Mons station as a result of important work. In view of the large construction site currently taking place at the Mons station, this punctuality is monitored daily by the various services of Infrabel and SNCB. A specific Infrabel/SNCB working group has thus been set up in order to analyse in depth the various elements disrupting punctuality and thus find short-term solutions in order to improve the regularity of different convoys running on lines 94 and 96. Technical traffic organization measures have been in place since 9 February 2015: garage of equipment at cul-de-sac "prison" as well as additional services of drivers in Mons "Airage" during the preparation of trains to facilitate the execution of manoeuvres. Further additional measures entered into force from 9 March 2015 with regard to fast P trains to Brussels and their relations with IC14 Quiévrain, Mons, Brussels and Liège. The services of the P trains have been adapted to facilitate the movement of passengers and to have more "tamp" time at the Mons station to facilitate the catches at the train dock. The train schedules of the IC14 relationship have been adapted in off-peak hours to take more account of small-movement entries at Saint-Ghislain and decouplements at Mons. As a result of the measures taken, the punctuality of lines 94 and 96 during the morning peak has improved and, in general, it is close to the overall punctuality of the network if there is no specific incident, particularly at the departure of trains.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic163x.u60	Madam Minister, thank you for that clarification. I note a serious awareness of the problems that arose, which is always positive. This has made it possible, if I hear you correctly, to set up working groups, technical measures and other provisions. I will check with you and on a day-to-day basis the improvement that you suggest at the end of your intervention in relation to the improvement of punctuality on this line, which I will not fail to follow with great interest. This line is very important to the country.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic163x.u61	Mrs Lalieux is not here.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic163x.u62	Mr President, Minister, on 21 January I asked you about the KB, which is responsible for the appointment of the representatives of the Regions to the Boards of Directors of the SNCB Group. In your reply, you indicated that you would submit a proposal for appointment as soon as the three regions had notified the names of their representatives. In the meantime, are you aware of the names of the representatives proposed by each of the three regions? What is the status of this file? When will the appointment of the representatives take place? SNCB and Infrabel are obliged to reserve one third of the seats on their boards of directors for women. Will this target be met on the basis of the presentations made?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic163x.u63	Mr President, Articles 16, 162a and 207 of the Act of 21 March 1991 on the reform of certain public economic undertakings and a royal decree of 25 April 2014 regulate the composition of the management bodies of Infrabel and SNCB and the representation of the Regions. The Boards of Directors shall be composed of a maximum of 14 members, including the Managing Director. As long as the number of administrators does not reach 14, the number of administrators is 10. Today, the two councils of Infrabel and SNCB have 10 members and are therefore legally constituted. Of the 14 members, 3 represent the regional authorities. The 14th member, appointed by the federal government, is intended to balance gender and linguistic parity, since the law specifies that at least one third of its members must be of the other sex and that there must be as many members of French as of Dutch expression. The three Regions have now designated their representatives. I would remind you that the mail from the Walloon Region is only dated 31 March. It is therefore now up to the federal government, on the basis of the indications from the regions, to examine the gender of the 14th member and the linguistic role of the 14th member. On the basis of my analysis, I can confirm that both Infrabel and SNCB require the latter to be a woman. In the case of SNCB, it will have to be part of the Dutch language role and in the case of Infrabel, it will have to be part of the French language role. I will begin discussions on this matter with my colleague in the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic163x.u64	Madam Minister, your answer is not yet very concrete, in the sense that we are not yet really clear. I hope, however, that it is moving forward. In committee, you said last time that we can expect the modernisation plan within a few weeks. It is important that the decisions that will be taken on this basis should be taken by well-functioning boards in which the Regions can make their voices heard clearly. I wish you a great deal of work joy and energy in order to make it work quickly, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic163x.u65	Questions Nos 3867 by Mr Raskin and 3902 by Mrs Lijnen were withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic163x.u66	Mr President, Madam Minister, in May 2013, Mr Brotcorne had questioned Mr Labille, then Minister of Public Enterprises and Development Cooperation, responsible for the big cities, concerning the future of the line 94 Tournai-Hal and in particular the use of a high-speed line. In the Minister's response, it is mentioned that the solution of using the high-speed line on line 94 was under consideration and that, if so, it could lead to the purchase of faster rolling stock, i.e. more than 200 km/h. Could you tell me, minister, if this project is still under consideration? Have there been any advancements? In short, I would like to know the position of SNCB on the possibility of using the high-speed line instead of line 94 to improve the journey time of users of this line, a line which for information is increasingly slow.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic163x.u67	The study of a mid-speed link between Tournai and Brussels via the high-speed line was carried out last year and resulted in a negative conclusion. A conventional train, running at 160 or 200 km/h, occupies too much capacity on the high-speed line on which trains run at 300 km/h, so that the capacity for other high-speed trains is mortgaged. SNCB currently does not have equipment capable of rolling at more than 200 km/h. Moreover, the reduction in the supply on the current line 94, also important for the service of intermediate stops in Leuze, Ath, Silly and Enghien, is not on the agenda (two trains per hour). In addition, an extension of the offer, i.e. a third train between Tournai and Brussels via high-speed line 1 cannot be justified because of the low passenger potential.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic163x.u68	Thank you, Madam Minister. I do not necessarily like the answer, but I have heard your explanations. Of course, I regret that decision.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic163x.u69	Mr President, Madam Minister, I have come to inform you of a report drawn up by various commuters passing through the station of Tournai. They deplore a large number of waste on railway tracks at the railway station level. This situation is detrimental to the city. It has a negative image of the city for visitors and does not offer a pleasant living environment for workers who spend every day in the train station. To my surprise, I recently read in the press that the staff assigned to the cleaning of the stations cannot intervene on the tracks for the following reason, according to the SNCB spokesman: "At the time of the transfer of competences between the various entities of the SNCB, the cleaning of the tracks has not been transferred". In the same press article, it is mentioned that B-Station would take over the maintenance of the tracks and that in the meantime, staff would be trained to isolate the tracks before intervention. Minister, I can only legitimately question myself and ask you this question. What do we do in the meantime? Will the roads be dirty for months?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic163x.u70	Mr Delannois, before the restructuring, cleaning the tracks or pinging the tracks was a task for Infrabel. In the meantime, this task has been transferred to SNCB. As a result, the teams that were previously in charge of this task were transferred to SNCB. Since this task can only be done under the protection of train traffic, an agreement must be reached between Infrabel and SNCB to put protection systems in place. It is up to the two companies to agree also on the cleaning in question of the station in Tournai. That I don't read in the press tomorrow that I'm lying, since this information comes from the SNCB! I was able to read that you were saying that I was lying about the information transmitted to me by SNCB.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic163x.u71	Minister, you are doing well to raise the issue and broaden the debate. In my last question at the previous committee, not this one, I asked you if there was a meeting with the police about the carnival in Tournai, you said there was a meeting with the police. I remember very well asking you if it was good with the police in Tournai and not with the federal police. You said it was with the Tournai zonal police that I preside over. The first thing I did was, of course, find out if this meeting actually took place. When I said you were lying, maybe I should have been a little more careful. I should have said that the information you are given is false. I'll admit it. But for your part, minister, do some work in return, eventually telling those who are lying to you to stop. I can assure you that there has never been a meeting with the Tournai police regarding the organization of the Tournai Carnival. In relation to this question, admit that we are really in the country of surrealism. I'm being told that a whole series of agreements that have not been signed make it impossible to clean up the tracks at Tournai station. That's disgusting. You know that Mr. and Mrs. All-the-world sometimes put everyone in the same bag. It seems like in the city of Tournai, the police aren't here. I can assure you that the police in Tournai are there very often. The railway police, I interviewed the Minister of the Interior, is in Mons. By the time we call it, you imagine that water has passed under the bridges, or even that some cans are laid along the tracks. I see only one thing: it's gross on the railway tracks of the city of Tournai. It upsets me that for a whole series of agreements that have not been concluded, I, as the mayor acting as the city of Tournai, have to suffer the unpleasant effects of a lack of collaboration. When I told you that you lied, I think I'm using that to put some order back in each other's homes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic163x.u72	Even if it may seem surreal to you, we are talking about worker protection. When they clean the tracks, the trains can't run. You have to know, too, at some point, what you want.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic163x.u73	I would like us to go for a ride on the tracks in Tournai and you will see that, in my opinion, there is still a way to clean the railway tracks safely.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic163x.u74	Mr. President, Mr. Senesael is absent because he attends his father's funeral. Please excuse him and defer his questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic163x.u75	Questions Nos 3904, 3905 and 3906 by Mr. Daniel Senesael were postponed. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Van Hecke's 3909 was converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic163x.u76	Madam Secretary, on 22 April there was another strike by the Socialist Civil Service Union. This had a major impact on the rail network. In a number of places the tracks were blocked in the morning, in the Gravenbramel, Bruges, Ostend, Dendermonde, Brussels-South and Brussels-North. As a result, almost the entire rail network in the country was crippled. According to SNCB, only 5% of trains were operated, mainly on regional lines. That had enormous consequences for the travelers. The blocking of tracks is not part of the right to strike. Rail unions are entitled to strike, but they do not have the right to block tracks. I refer to Article 3 of the Royal Decree of 20 December 2007 laying down the rules of the police on the railways, which states that it is prohibited to prevent, impede, delay or endanger rail traffic in any way. The railway blocks not only have a damaging impact on rail traffic during strike days, but also the confidence and image of SNCB in the daily traveller suffers a lot of damage. Madam Minister, what preventive measures have been taken by SNCB and/or Infrabel in the framework of the 22 April strike to avoid railway blockades? What steps have SNCB and/or Infrabel taken to lift the railway blockades on 22 April? Were legal action taken against these offenders after April 22? What internal punishment will the staff who blocked the tracks on 22 April be given as part of the strike of the Socialist Civil Service Union?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic163x.u77	In the event of announced actions, the managers of Corporate Security Services shall consult the organisers, the police and the emergency services in the context of public policy. These consultations also refer to the ban on obstacles to rail transport. Since the end of 2014, in the case of rail occupation, agreements are also made with bailiffs who are going to summon the occupiers with explosives to lift the rail occupation. The police will assist them in the execution of this.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic163x.u78	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answer. I note that agreements have been made since the end of last year to take action against railway blockades. I think that is a good thing. Criminal offences must not be tolerated, especially if the whole of rail traffic is paralysed and the traveller suffers, which means that people do not get to work or to school.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic163x.u79	Question No 3933 by Mrs Thoron is postponed. Question No 3934 by Mr Burton is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic163x.u80	Madam Minister, a study by the Boston Consulting Group comparing the performance, speed, punctuality and ticket prices of rail in 25 European countries shows that Belgium scores the worst in one country except Ireland. The study states that Belgium was once a pioneer of rail mobility but is now in the rear of the European class. Fortunately, in the categories of safety and the number of passengers using the rail system, we score better than the European average, but we are not ahead either. A further analysis by the Boston Consulting Group shows that investments in infrastructure in particular benefit the performance of rail, the global economy and services. Last week, however, I expressed my fear that Infrabel's investment is falling. Have you taken note of the study? Is it true that we have the lowest rates in Western Europe and therefore, according to the CEO, have to raise our prices? What conclusions will you draw from the analyses of the Boston Consulting Group, which is committed to investing mainly in rail infrastructure?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic163x.u81	Madam Minister, Mr Geerts has already introduced the subject in detail. The study of the Boston Consulting Group clearly shows that our country scores very badly in terms of rail performance. A shortage of government funds can certainly not be the cause, because our country spends the most on railways after four countries. It is a pity that little is in place, especially for the traveller. In terms of cost and performance we hang on the tail of the peloton. SNCB does not approve of the study, I read in the newspaper, since it harms small countries. However, the three best performing countries in the study Switzerland, Sweden and Denmark are not exactly large countries. The study also makes some concrete recommendations on infrastructure and road charges. It concludes that a lower path fee increases the performance of the railways, as a low path fee encourages, among other things, the use of additional trains and the adjustment of the service. Our path fees are among the highest in Europe. We have just talked about this in the discussion of the draft law. In your policy paper, you announced that you are aiming for a reduction and a restructuring of the path fees. At the committee meeting on 24 March, you said that a study is currently being carried out on this subject. What explains the high road charges in our country? Why are they among the highest in Europe? When will the study on the path fees be completed?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic163x.u82	Mr Geerts, according to SNCB, the study is based on data on both freight and passenger transport by conventional trains and high-speed trains. The data used to compare the performance of the different rail operators date from 2012 and do not allow conclusions to be drawn on current performance. This is mainly because in 2013 there was a reversal in the trend towards the punctuality of SNCB's trains. The study attaches great importance to long-distance and high-speed connections, two criteria which favour large countries such as France and Germany. The authors of the study admit that. The fact that freight is charged in the same way as passenger transport also benefits the large countries. SNCB also identifies a lack of transparency in the determination of the comparison parameters. For example, the average fare in euro per passenger kilometre is one of the eight parameters included, but it is not determined what was taken as the basis for that parameter. SNCB does not regret having been contacted for the study and has not at any time been given the opportunity to provide information. It also questions the fact that a consultancy firm which has recently provided advice to certain operators is carrying out a study which requires complete neutrality with respect to operators. SNCB does not recognise itself in the conclusions of a study using such a methodology. The methodology used makes sense to conclude that countries where government invests most in infrastructure are the most performant. In these countries, the cost of infrastructure is lower than in those countries where there are also a lot of subsidies to operators. This will automatically encourage the development of rail transport and thus a higher supply of trains, as the operating costs are lower. Mrs De Coninck, the compensation for the use of the rail network for passenger transport is indeed quite high in Belgium compared to other European countries. This is largely due to the transformation of SNCB on 1 January 2005 into a four-fold structure, consisting of the new SNCB, Infrabel, SNCB-Holding and the Railway Infrastructure Fund. At the time, that fund partly took over the historic debt of SNCB and became the owner of the railway infrastructure and of a number of valorizable sites. The FSI leased the infrastructure to Infrabel for an amount of 300 million euros per year. Infrabel was obliged to pass those additional costs on to the users of its rail network through the user fee. Following opposition to this construction by the European Commission, the infrastructure was re-owned by Infrabel on 1 January 2009. The remaining debt, managed by the FSI, was consolidated with the State's debt. The FSI was then transformed into a public limited company with the sole social purpose of valorising the remaining areas. The study I spoke about on 24 March 2015 is currently in its final phase and will be completed in the coming weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic163x.u83	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answer. I find it very strange that the Boston Consulting Group did not question operators, including SNCB, for the purpose of carrying out the study.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic163x.u84	Thank you, Minister, for the detailed answer. I take note of the fact that the study is in its final phase. We are therefore eagerly looking forward to the results of this study. You are partly responsible for the expensive road charges in the reform of SNCB. Our party has always opposed this reform. That is why I have just called for the reduction of historical debt to be included in a long-term plan, with a 12-year horizon, for example. In this way we can finally turn our railway companies into modern and efficient companies, where everyone is once again proud, both the workers and the travellers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic163x.u85	Mr President, Madam Minister, as you know, in 2008 SNCB signed a contract with the German manufacturer Siemens for an amount of €1.5 billion for the purchase of just over 300 new engines. These trains, called Désiero, operate mainly on local lines and, from the point of view of commuters, have advantages. According to them, the new trains acquired by SNCB have more space for passengers, are more accessible for disabled people, with reduced mobility or for strollers. Finally, these trains are equipped with an updated table in real time indicating any delays and the exact time of arrival at a station. However, despite these many advantages, I would like to raise an issue that seems to me to be problematic. Indeed, as with all trains, it is possible to buy a 1st or 2nd class ticket. Of course, the 1st class is more expensive but this is due to the fact that it is more comfortable, there is less noise, it is distinct and separated from the 2nd class. It is also easier to work on it. It is therefore an important distinction that I do not criticise at all, except for the Désiero trains. They do not have cars that are clearly separated with doors. It is therefore perfectly possible to move from the beginning to the end of the train without opening or closing any door since they do not have one! In other words, everything is open. The problem is that then the distinction between 1st and 2nd class does not really have to be. Yet the distinction between the two is also pecuniary. I am fully aware that it is very difficult to introduce a different pricing system since it is often impossible to know in advance the train which the commuter will use, but should we not think about this problem and, in the future, be careful to distinguish between the two classes in the purchase of new trains? Therefore, Madam Minister, I would like to take stock of the problem raised. Can you give me your position on this? What do you think about the actual shortage of first-class seats on Désiero trains? Is there a solution to this problem? Can you assure me that in the future, the new trains will have seats in the first class quite distinct from the second?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic163x.u86	Mr President, the distinction between the first and second classes in the Désiero is, at first sight, less obvious than in the other trains. The Désiero is a train essentially designed for short distances as in the context of the suburban network. The primary objective of this train is to carry as many passengers as possible over as short a period of time as possible. These considerations have therefore been taken into account in the design and development of first-class spaces. In this regard, more attention was paid to the space available for the legs, as well as to ensuring a better seating position. It is in fact not possible to apply a different rate depending on the train.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic163x.u87	Madam Minister, thank you for the thorough, prompt and preciseness of your answer. Perhaps the difference in pricing could be studied. This seems indispensable to me, but it is up to you to put this on the agenda or to write to SNCB.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic163x.u88	Mr President, Minister, during the past Easter holiday there was no train between Hasselt and Genk at 17:16. Many travellers were not aware of this reduced service. There is also dissatisfaction about the quality of the train sets used for this route. However, a fast and comfortable connection between Hasselt and Genk is of great importance for Limburg. I have four questions for you, Madam Secretary. Why was this train removed from the offer during the Easter holiday? Will there be a reduced service between Hasselt and Genk during the coming holiday periods? The P-trains 2366 and 2368 from Hasselt to Genk at 16h 18 and 18h 18 drove this holiday period then again. On the basis of what criteria was it decided to maintain these connections and delete the P-train 2367? On average, there is an hourly train between Hasselt and Genk. During the rush hour this is extended to two trains. However, this is a connection between the two largest cities in Limburg. Is the current offer satisfactory? Does SNCB intend to extend this offer? Finally, the connections between Hasselt and Genk happen with the so-called Breaks. These are old train sets with little comfort and tight seats. This leads to problems especially during peak hours. Does SNCB intend to use more modern train sets for this connection during peak hours?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic163x.u89	Mr President, the P-train 2367 of 17:16 is no longer in service during the holiday periods. However, SNCB notes that this train is used more than the P-train 2366 which departs from Hasselt at 16:16. Therefore, from the summer holidays the P-train 2367 will be reinserted during the holiday periods and the train 2366 no longer. Both trains continue to run outside the holiday periods. There are about 2 500 people travelling between Genk and Hasselt. An offer of a train per hour per direction during the peak supplemented by a number of P-trains, in order to achieve half an hour's supply, is therefore sufficient. No expansion of supply is currently planned. No Breaks are deployed on the clock-proof connection from Genk to the coast. On the P trains to and from Brussels M5 carriages are used. On the other P-trains are used five times AM96s and seven times Breaks. In its analysis of the occupation figures on the section of the line between Genk and Hasselt, SNCB finds no overcrowding.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic163x.u90	Madam Minister, you undoubtedly know that Hasselt and Genk are the only two center cities in Limburg. SNCB can be expected to provide a good and high-quality service and connection between the two cities. Many people from Limburg use the route to trace from the region around Genk and its surroundings to Hasselt, Brussels or Antwerp. Especially during peak hours, a good train supply is essential. The complaints are what they are. It therefore seems to me a very bad idea to remove certain connections from this line during the holiday periods from an already very limited train supply. I understand from your answer that the deletion will be cancelled from the next summer holiday. That is a good thing, but we absolutely need to review the service and quality of the carriages on this link.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic163x.u91	The combined questions Nos 3998 by Mrs Van Camp and 4032 by Mr Flahaux are converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic163x.u92	Mr President, Minister, this is a question about the Infrabel Weedfree Train. Each year the weeds are fought with a specific train that travels 10 000 kilometres. In itself, it is of course good for safety that the weeds are combated. The question is only to what extent the use of pesticides is permitted, as municipalities have been banned from using them. Apparently, the system would consist of nine cameras that detect the weeds so that the entire trajectory is not unnecessarily covered with pesticides. According to my information, this still means 625 000 litres a year, with a cost of EUR 1.3 million. I absolutely do not think that safety should be compromised. My question is whether alternatives have been investigated. The municipalities had to do the same, and this has not been evident. That is why I am asking whether Infrabel should also look for alternatives. Firstly, does the ban on the use of pesticides also apply to Infrabel or has Infrabel requested a derogation, and what is its procedure? A new technological camera system would therefore seem to require 30% less weedkiller. Is it true that 625 000 litres per year are still used? Has there been any research or ongoing work on sustainable alternatives to limit the use of the weedkiller? Apparently, the train is only used on the main tracks and not on the marshalling stations and the like. What know-how is used there?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic163x.u93	I fully agree with Mr Geerts and will therefore not repeat this matter. The number of litres of pesticides sprayed per year, more than 600 000 litres, is a hallucinating quantity. That is why my specific questions, Madam Secretary. Are the companies of the SNCB Group as a public service subject to the Decree on the Sustainable Use of Pesticides? What exceptions have they obtained from the Flemish Environmental Company for the use of these chemical pesticides? SNCB uses a smart spray train to remove the vegetation of the railway beds. To what distance from the rails is the bed watered? Which areas should be irrigated? What distance from watercourses is kept when spraying? On which lines or at which locations is it unnecessary to spray twice a year? Which locations are never irrigated? What is the cost of spraying? Weeds must also be removed in stations, stops and platforms. What means are being used for this? What's the cost of this? In a reply to a written question from 2013, your predecessor, Mr Labille, indicated that Infrabel committed himself to presenting a concrete programme for pesticide reduction in 2014. Has that happened yet? Do you have a visual on that? Can you deliver that to the committee members? Finally, Infrabel works in four locations together with Natuurpunt for the ecological management of beers. That project was launched in 2005 as a pilot project. What is the evaluation of that? Is that a success? Is the extension of this project envisaged?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic163x.u94	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in accordance with the decree on the sustainable use of pesticides in the Flemish Region, Infrabel obtained derogations from the ban on pesticides. These derogations relate to the application of pesticides to railway beds and safety paths as well as to installations linked to railway operation. Let me give you some examples. In relation to surface water, a pesticide-free strip of at least 1 metre is maintained, some sites located in drinking water protection zones need pesticide-free management and gutters and ditches as part of some areas need pesticide-free management. The amount of pesticides used shall be reported annually before 1 April of the year after use. The SEQ values, which, depending on the concentration of pesticides, indicate how much time it takes before they lose their ecotoxicity on the basis of the quantity used, are closely monitored. I will provide you with a table with an overview of the values of the products used in recent years. The actions of the previous programme to reduce pesticides are still being continued and discussed with the Flemish Environmental Society. This concerns the choice of chemical weed protection products, the measures to be taken in the case of maintenance and rail renewal works, the preparation of support frameworks for the maintenance of beers and a design of awareness action. Infrabel has a constructive cooperation with the competent authorities and nature organisations to further optimise its maintenance management. In consultation with the VMM, sensitive zones were identified in water extraction areas in order to manage them pesticide-free. The results will allow further optimisations.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic163x.u95	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answer. It is good that we have asked this question, because we can now see that from 2005 onwards we have evolved from 2.5 million litres to less than 500 000 litres. So efforts have certainly been made. I think it is important that consultation with all the other organisations should continue, as should the municipalities.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic163x.u96	Madam Minister, thank you for the detailed answer. Indeed, the table shows that there has been a great deal of progress and that very good work has been done in this area. All credits to the organizations for that. There is also a lot of consultation with other stakeholders and actors. I can only welcome that. In addition, I cannot get the impression that more than 600 000 litres of pesticides remain a huge quantity. Without minimising the importance of rail safety, which remains a priority for all of us, I cannot simply accept this answer. For the record, I have no doubt about the content of that. I am also aware of the financial impact of the roll-out of possible alternatives and of the tight financial framework within which you have to work, Madam Secretary. I think, however, that I should ethically ask myself whether some of these costs could not be recovered in the field of public health. Everyone knows people who are closely or remotely affected by diseases associated with pesticide use. We are all in the process of taking action for Come on against Cancer, and so I believe that I am entitled to make this ethical thought, despite all the good efforts that are being made.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic163x.u97	Madam Minister, in early March 2015, a literature study by the BIVV on the driving licence with points appeared. It states that a driving licence system with points can help to increase road safety. The costs of setting up, deploying and maintaining the system still need to be thoroughly examined and weighed against the expected increase in road safety. If these results are also positive, the BIVV recommends the driving licence with points. The GFCF also stresses the need for cooperation between the federal and regional levels, inter alia because of the regionalisation of a number of violations in the context of the sixth state reform. In the federal government agreement, the commitment was already made to examine the driving licence with points as a possible path to better follow up the approach of repeated accidents. That is why I have the following questions, Madam Secretary. What is your view on the possible application of the driving licence with points? What is the view of your fellow Members at the regional levels? The Flemish government agreement calls for the introduction of a driving licence with points. Has there been any consultation with the regional colleagues on this issue? If so, what were the findings? Finally, have you already taken action to study, as agreed in the coalition agreement, the approach to repetition, in which the driving licence can play a role with points? If so, what were the initial findings? If not, what are your plans on that point in the coalition agreement?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic163x.u98	Mr Van den Bergh, I am familiar with the BIVV's exploratory literature study on driving licences with points from 2015 to which you refer. The study is a reflection of the BestPoint Manual that has been developed in cooperation with the European Commission and serves as a value indicator and reference point. The conclusion of the BIVV is that the driving licence system can help with points to increase road safety. For me, the driving licence with points is only one of the possible instruments for implementing a road safety policy, and it should certainly not be regarded as a single means or as a means in itself. In this context, I would therefore like to focus primarily on improving the functioning of existing measures and systems. I have asked the BIVV and the FPS Mobility and Transport to conduct a qualitative and quantitative study on the impact of the new recidivism scheme, as it has been in force since 1 January 2015. In addition, in consultation with my colleagues in the Committee on the Interior and Justice, I have drawn up a plan to combat the impunity of unpaid fines. I have not yet had a discussion on this issue with my regional colleagues.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic163x.u99	Madam Minister, of course you are sticking to your position of the coalition agreement, which is also logical, which included an investigation into the most efficient instrument in favour of road safety. I now note that such an investigation is being carried out into the measures already introduced with regard to repeated offences, but that there is not really a more comprehensive investigation into the most optimal instrument in which the driving licence with points..... could clearly also play a role. We will follow this up further, but we are counting on this research to take place on this subject as well.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic163x.u100	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Raskin's 4046 was converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Van Hecke's 4068 was postponed. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Fonck's 4080 will be converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Van den Bergh's 4082 was converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament 4083 by Mrs Fonck is also converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic163x.u101	Madam Minister, Article 12.3.1 of the Road Code provides that each driver must give priority to the driver coming from the right, unless he is driving on a roundabout or if the driver coming from the right comes from a prohibited direction. The road manager has of course the possibility to deviate from that basic rule by signaling with the traffic signs B1 or B5. The priority of the right is a clear basic rule but it can also create dangerous situations, for example at intersections of roads that are not equivalent, intersections with poor visibility or high maximum speed intersections. It is therefore appropriate to evaluate legislation on the primacy of the right and to clarify it and to draw up directives on its application. Some again question the right's priority, based on local traffic situations. Personally, I do not want to question that basic rule, but perhaps it is necessary to look at its application. Hence the following questions, Madam Secretary. As a minister, how do you evaluate the rule of right-wing primacy? Do you think it is appropriate to make adjustments or to amend that basic rule? Are you, as Minister, in a position to give or not give guidelines to road managers on the issue where the priority sign B17 or the road signs B1 or B5 should or should not be placed? Is this possible and desirable, for example, in a ministerial decision on the special conditions of placement? Is it possible and desirable to do so via a ministry, via a KB or in a different way?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic163x.u102	The International Convention on Road Traffic provides that in countries where the right is driven at intersections, priority should be given to drivers coming from the right. So, as you also point out in the introduction to your questions, it is a clear, even international basic rule. This can't be broken. However, road managers have the possibility to derogate from the right-wing rule by means of road signs at the places where it is deemed appropriate. Since the definition of the conditions for placing road signs has become a regional competence since the sixth state reform, it is up to the respective regional ministers to answer your question on the desirability of binding guidelines for the placing of priority signs.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic163x.u103	Madam Minister, that is a clear answer, for which I am grateful.
