ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic224x.u1	Mr President, Minister, my question goes back to March, but I note that it is still relevant. It seems important to me that a little clarity be made about the construction of courthouses in Namur and Dinant. Under the Justice Plan, Minister Geens referred to the adoption, by the end of the year, of a master plan for judicial buildings – as was the case for prisons. It would be envisaged that certain courts in Dinant would be brought together in Namur. More specifically, there was a question of gathering either the courts of first instance or the "criminal chain". If it takes shape, such a project will likely have consequences for the project of a new courthouse in Dinant, which was supposed to be built in the locality of Bouvignes, but also for the occupation of the one planned in Namur, which was to accommodate services other than those of justice. Although there have been significant delays, the procedures for the construction of the new courthouses in Namur and Dinant are relatively advanced. I have asked you and your colleagues regularly about this. According to the latest information available, the public works promotion contracts for the construction of the Namurese Palace and the complex courthouse/finance centre in Dinant were launched by the federal government in March and April 2014, respectively. Given that these projects have reached an already advanced stage, the government must be able to quickly clarify its intentions. This is important both for the judicial staff, who work in deplorable working conditions in Dinant and Namur, and for the litigants and local authorities in view of the urbanistic consequences of these choices. This is typically the case for the City of Namur where the construction of the courthouse results in a major reorganization of the public space. Minister, do you confirm the assumption of a gathering of certain jurisdictions in Namur? Would these be the courts of first instance or the components of the criminal chain? How many magistrates and officials would be involved? What would be the impact of this transfer on new courthouse projects? Will the Bouvignes Palace project be maintained or will it be resized? As far as its occupation is concerned, will the community justice services - family court, labour court, justice of the peace - be maintained there? Will there be sufficient space in Namur to accommodate all Namibian criminal justice services? Will this gathering have an impact on the size of the planned palace and on the organization of services? What about the initial project to house also officials of the Régie des Bâtiments? Is it compatible? When will the government take a definitive position on this matter? In what form is the consultation organised with the local authorities involved in the main part of these projects, at least in their urban planning and spatial planning dimension - I insist on this aspect? How soon will Namur's new courthouse be usable?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic224x.u2	Mr. President, Mr. Gilkinet, as you know, the Régie des Bâtiments works for its clients. We always listen to the needs and follow the procedures of our customers. I'm going to let you know the status of the decision-making on Dinant's courthouse and, as you say, also on Namur. The Council of Ministers' note of 4 April 2014 concerning the administrative centre in Dinant, including the Justice and Finance FPS, stated that the project should be re-evaluated on the basis of new public service standards and should provide space for the integration of projects from other federal services, including the federal police. Following the reorganization of the judicial districts, which led to the restructuring of the Justice and Home Affairs FPS, they were invited to present adapted needs programmes. The Régie des Bâtiments is still waiting for these programmes to adapt the project and respect the note of the Council of Ministers. The latest rumours indicate new restructuring of the Justice FPS and changes in Dinant's needs program, which would have significant implications for Dinant's and Namur's files. The Dinant site is therefore currently dependent on the updated needs programs of the FPS Justice and the Federal Police. Both are linked, because the federal police organization takes into account the organization of the FPS Justice. The auctioning of the works therefore depends very strongly on the updated needs programme of the Justice FPS and whether or not we can adapt the current project, for which we have obtained the urban planning certificate. Otherwise, the project should be repeated in whole or in part and a new urban planning certificate should be obtained. The implementation of Minister Geens' Justice Plan in relation to the organization of the Judicial Order is currently the subject of extensive reflection and consultation at the level of the FPS Justice. As soon as the conclusions of this analysis are known, the Régie des Bâtiments will be able to assess the possible consequences for the projects in Dinant and Namur. So the cards are in the hands of the FPS Justice, our client. They are busy redefining their needs in the current judicial landscape. Until they make their decisions, it is impossible for us to establish a program. The goal is therefore to concentrate federal services, but the decisions of the Minister of Justice are expected.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic224x.u3	Minister of the Régie des Bâtiments - you are also Minister of the Interior and the Police - my expectations are disappointed. I am astonished because, in the organization of work, a question that was addressed to the Minister of Justice has been reoriented to you. You answer that by stating that you are waiting for the decision of the Minister of Justice. For the citizen and the local authorities, it's Kafka! On April 4, 2014, you reiterated that a clear option had been taken, that it had been communicated, but today it is being questioned and obviously no deadline is being set. I have no problem with rationalizing the occupation of the courthouses, building one if only one is necessary. What is important is to choose an option, stick to it and consult with the local authorities concerned. I cited the case of the city of Namur, the building of the courthouse and the parking lot. The reassignment of the former courthouse has a clear impact on local planning policy. Uncertainty, blur, lost time (six months or one year) have a significant impact on mobility issues, etc. Through you, I ask the government, even if you are not the Minister of Justice, to clarify its intentions as quickly as possible and then contact the local authorities to allow them to adjust. The management of this file is absolutely not satisfactory at this stage. I will again question the Minister of Justice for quick answers, both for this and for others.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic224x.u4	Mr President, Minister, we remain in the region mentioned by the previous speaker. He talked about the judicial districts of Dinant-Philippeville and Namur. As for my question, it concerns the administrative district of Philippeville in which there is a project to build a finance centre. This project, whose ambition has probably been reduced over time, dates back almost twenty years and we still do not know what will happen today! It was Minister Maystadt who announced the construction of this finance centre in 1996, that is, if it is almost prehistoric! Over the years and through the legislatures, I have asked the minister in charge of the Régie des Bâtiments, the Minister of Finance. We always see this ping-pong game where one waits for the other, where one evaluates the needs of the other and we sometimes receive somewhat contradictory answers. Under the previous legislature, Mr Servais Verherstraeten, in charge of the Régie des Bâtiments, had assured me, following an oral question, that the project to build a finance centre in Philippeville on the former site of the barracks was still relevant. It was even mentioned at the time that Philippeville's justice of peace could be annexed to it, knowing that today it is located in the city centre in a building classified but inaccessible to people with reduced mobility. Regardless of the masterplan of justice that has just been mentioned, the last on-site meeting, which brought together all parties, including the city of Philippevillle, took place in April 2014 to clarify the situation. The Régie des Bâtiments had a positive speech and wished to move forward on the matter. The idea was to bring together, in this much more modest construction than the original project, some 50 service officials scattered throughout the city, not always in very decent working conditions. They are old buildings that pose various problems of operation, energy, parking, comfort and so on, for both staff and citizens. So the idea was to bring all this together on this ground. Minister, I would like to ask you when you return today and finally know, after all these years, the government's position on this project. Will there be a Finance Administrative Centre in Philippeville, possibly bringing together justice of the peace? If so, can you tell me how soon the Régie des Bâtiments could operate in relation to this project, knowing that the city of Philippeville had given up land for this construction free of charge? She would like to recover some of this land to set up a bus station there and solve mobility problems in the city centre. What's the status of this case? Has a budget been agreed? Has a preliminary project been completed? What is the status of the consultation with the city of Philippeville on this matter? Finally, if the government does not agree to build this building, it must be made clear. As Mr. Gilkinet said in his question, we need a decision. It is important to know what option will be taken and not to continue to procrastinate over time. Either there is this will to build this building, or the land can eventually be returned to the city of Philippeville who would find another destination. Of course, the option that is desired, both by the city and by myself, is the construction of this finance centre that would bring together various finance services on the site of the barracks in Philippeville.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic224x.u5	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Delizée, the study of the construction of a finance centre taking over the services hosted rue du Moulin is currently under way and has been approved in outline by the Operational Directorate-General for Regional Planning (DGATLP) and the Municipality of Philippeville. It was confirmed in January 2015 to add justice of peace to this project. The new project is under consideration. It has not yet been presented or approved by DGATLP or the municipality. Studies on the project for the construction of the Finance and Peace Justice Centre are currently under way and are expected to be finalized by the end of this year. The award of the work of the Finance and Peace Justice Centre could take place at the end of the first semester or the beginning of the second half of 2016. The budget for all the work is not yet defined and will be reserved for the 2016 budget year. The start of work is planned for late 2016 or early 2017. Upon approval of the project and the ownership of the roads with the commune of Philippeville, the boundaries of the land to be returned to the commune will be defined. Your third question is therefore irrelevant since it was decided to continue the construction, the work is expected to begin in early 2017.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic224x.u6	Mr President, I thank the Minister for his concrete response. This one took time, but I'm really happy about it. Studies are ongoing and, Minister, you are planning the budget in 2016. I don't know if you have an overview of the amount at this point. The start of work is scheduled for the end of 2016. It's concrete! What would be interesting is that the Régie reprograms a consultation meeting with the city to inform them in more detail, for example the number of square meters, the number of officials. I wanted to ask you if this included the peace justice staff, given the masterplan which is evolving in parallel with Justice and whose decision is also announced by the end of this year. Can you tell me an approximate amount? Is justice of peace integrated into this construction?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic224x.u7	Mr Delizée, justice of peace is integrated. That's why we need to adjust the study. It is difficult to give an amount before the study is finalized.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic224x.u8	Thank you, Minister. When the decision comes, we can say that the ping-pong game will be over and that the Régie will have won!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic224x.u9	Question No 2757 by Mrs Sabien Lahaye-Battheu is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic224x.u10	Minister, I do not know if I will get a response as satisfactory as Mr Delizée.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic224x.u11	I wish you all the best!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic224x.u12	Mr. Delizée is very lucky. In short, the Régie des Bâtiments waits for him to become mayor of Philippeville to be able to inaugurate the building there.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic224x.u13	I plan to do so for 2018.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic224x.u14	I think this is a delicate attention on the part of the minister to you! Mr Minister, in the Committee on Justice on 1 July, I asked your colleague Mr Geens about various budgetary aspects of the matter relating to the future prison in Haren. In his reply, he acknowledged that he did not have objective data to establish the overall cost of this prison project, since "the final contract between the Cafasso consortium and the Régie des Bâtiments has not yet been concluded. It will be only after the conclusion of these negotiations that the final cost of the project can be accurately communicated." I would therefore like to know the progress of this project and the budget estimates for this important investment. The minister did not question the figure, often announced, of 60 million euros a year, for the operation of this mega prison. Moreover, this amount would not include all of the expenses, including those related to the transfer of detainees and guarding – activities for which a further €30 million could probably be added per year. This means that Haren prison would cost a total of €3 billion over 25 years. This amount is somewhat perplexed by the budgetary constraints you face, even if no one denies the need to either build a new building or rehabilitate the prison in Saint-Gilles. Obviously, this option has been abandoned somewhat hastyly by a previous government. Mr Minister, I would like to know the status of the case, especially since your colleague said that it was no longer possible to put an end to this proposed prison in Haren. This therefore suggests that commitments have already been made to the public-private partnership consortium and, therefore, budget estimates have had to be made. I can't imagine we're in total opacity about this. What is the breakdown of the cost of building the Haren prison (purchase of land(s), estimated cost of investment and equipment)? In estimating the cost of purchasing land, have the water table problems in this location been taken into account? We are in a particularly humid area and there are likely to be additional costs associated with drying up the site. I do not know whether studies have already been carried out on this sensitive aspect of the file. What is the estimated cost for the operation of the prison? On the basis of what assumptions have these calculations been made? Can you detail the announced partial operating cost of EUR 60 million? When exactly was the decision of the Council of Ministers to choose Haren's terrain? On the basis of what criteria has this choice been made?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic224x.u15	Mr Maingain, before answering your specific questions, I would like to make it clear that they arrived yesterday morning, so I do not yet have the exact answers to all your questions. So I'll send them to you in writing. They were combined with other questions in Dutch, so I will allow myself to answer a large part in Dutch. Mr Maingain, I think in your first question you are mixing two elements. With regard to the prison project itself, in June 2014, the terms of reference of the impact study were the subject of the first public inquiry. At the close of the meeting, the Conciliation Committee submitted to the Committee a number of amendments to the specifications, most of which were adopted. The second public survey on the impact study and the application for urban planning permits for the Brussels territory will be conducted in the near future. The full results of the impact study were included in this public survey. Let us be clear: the work carried out has no bearing on the procedure for applying for a prison permit. The closure was laid in the second half of February with the aim of avoiding the deposit of even more illegal waste on the ground and in order to guarantee the safety of third parties. The aim is to carry out soil reconnaissance studies at the site, on the one hand to be able to calculate the lift of the site, and on the other hand to delimit the polluted areas. The Brussels-Capital Region carried out an on-the-spot inspection following a complaint as a result of this work and could not find any infringement. With regard to the closure, we hope to conclude as soon as possible. However, since the work carried out has been demolished and the work still to be carried out is prevented, a further consultation will be held with the parties concerned. The starting date of the prison's work naturally depends on the administrative procedures and their various moments of participation. The licences were requested by a mixed procedure in December 2013. In the meantime, almost all administrative steps have been taken, in particular the preparation of the impact study, the organisation of the public surveys for the specifications and the outcome of this impact study, plus the accompanying advisory committees and consultative committees. The latest consultation committee, which was set up on 20 May, is required to deliver its opinion before, on the one hand, the BIM for the environmental permit and, on the other hand, the Region for the urban permit, can give their final opinion. In addition, the procedure for the abolition and diversion of neighbourhood roads must be followed by public investigation. Taking into account the current running times, the Buildings Regie expects a final decision to be taken only by October. Depending on possible appeal procedures that may be initiated, a mobilisation period for the works will have to be taken into account. As far as costs are concerned, the estimate of the cost of construction (cf. BAFO 2013) was EUR 330 million VATC, including the purchase of Haren's land for an amount of EUR 153 172 000. I will provide you with the other costs requested in writing.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic224x.u16	Minister, thank you for your answer. I will wait for the additional answers to make a more precise assessment. Today, is there already an agreement or a pre-agreement with the consortium responsible for building?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic224x.u17	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic224x.u18	Can this text be communicated or not?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic224x.u19	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic224x.u20	I would therefore like to hear from you. I ask the committee secretariat to contact the minister's office to follow up and have the text of the agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic224x.u21	Question No 4176 by Mrs Sabien Lahaye-Battheu is transformed into a written question. Question No 4468 by Mr Luc Gustin is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic224x.u22	Mr President, Minister, I recently asked the Minister of Justice, Koen Geens, about the Courthouse in Tournai, which requires some work. First of all, in a first question, I mentioned the fact that members of the present majority had kept promises about the construction of a new courthouse. In his response, the Minister had indicated that with the new Justice Plan, a thorough rationalization exercise would be conducted and would lead to a significant reduction in the number of courtrooms. He had finished by telling me that he could not tell me more about this masterplan. I asked the minister a second time about a possible renovation of the courthouse, a project that is much cheaper than the construction of a new building. Indeed, I have information on the existence of plans for the renovation of the current courthouse. Renovation of the premises would allow the judicial staff to work in good conditions and ensure that the people in question were given justice in better conditions while preserving the significant heritage value of the building. I therefore asked Mr Geens whether, at the time of rationalisation of budgets, the solution to renovation did not seem to him to be a good compromise. The minister replied that, at this stage, there was no comprehensive concrete renovation plan for the current courthouse in Tournai. This was linked to the previous phase, which involved the rental of the new building located on Rue du Château, intended for the commercial court, the youth court and the civil section of the court of first instance. As a result of a trial at first instance, following a trial by a few residents, the move was interrupted. Only the commercial and youth courts were able to occupy their new premises. In the meantime, a new judgement on appeal was issued, in favour of the occupation, but the Justice cannot continue the move due to a dispute between the Régie des Bâtiments and the owners. Only after the Civil Section has left the former palace will there be sufficient buffer space for possible renovation in several phases. I would therefore like to ask you, Minister, what the situation is today. Can you give me more details about this dispute? Do you think that a renovation of the Tournai courthouse is a possible solution? Would it not be more timely in terms of costs than the construction of a new courthouse?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic224x.u23	Mr President, Mr Delannois, I confirm that to date there is no comprehensive plan for the renovation of the Justice Palace in Tournai. As part of the ongoing trial, the judgement of the Court of First Instance in Tournai interrupted the relocation of certain services of the SPF Justice hosted at the courthouse to the building rented on Rue du Château, including the civil section of the court of first instance housed in the former palace. Only the commercial and youth courts occupy the premises. The Mons Court of Appeal delivered a judgment on 26 January 2015 to reform the interim order issued on 25 September 2013 by the Court of First Instance in Tournai. As a reminder, this decision prohibited the Régie des Bâtiments from continuing the occupation of the disputed building as an extension of the courthouse under penalty. This brings me to the impact of the above-mentioned judgment of the Court of Appeal. It must be borne in mind that the judgment is not final. It will only be so after the expiry of a period of three months following its service, i.e. from 15 July 2015, i.e. tomorrow. Until this period has expired, an appeal in cassation remains possible and in the event of cassation, the court's decision would be effective again. In view of this possibility and in order to exercise caution, the Régie des Bâtiments did not notify the SPF Justice of the relocation of the services remaining in the courthouse. In order to do so, it is waiting for the judgement of the Court of Appeal to become final in order to have the absolute certainty that it will not have to reverse. This situation explains the dispute with the owner, as the payment of part of the rent has been suspended. With regard to the medium- and long-term centralization of the services of the Justice FPS in Tournai, the Régie des Bâtiments still does not have the programme of the updated needs of the above-mentioned services, the programme being revised and to be in line with the masterplan expected of the Minister of Justice. Upon the provision of the latter and of the updated needs programme by the SPF Justice, the Régie des Bâtiments will be able to prepare a feasibility study leading to the optimal solution to be chosen. In other words, before you have a needs plan from the FPS Justice, it is not possible to determine whether one or the other scenario is more or less expensive.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic224x.u24	Minister, what do you mean by "one or the other"? Is it the current renovation of the building or the construction elsewhere?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic224x.u25	For me, these are the two possible scenarios, either the renovation of the existing buildings or a new construction, depending on the needs program. In order to answer the question of which option is the cheapest, you need to know the program of needs.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic224x.u26	We agree. However, this also means that at least one of the two scenarios will be considered in Tournai, whether it is the construction of a new courthouse (first scenario) or the current renovation of the courthouse (second scenario). The Tournians have some fears. Indeed, when you hear Minister Geens, you have the impression that he says there is no plan. We're talking about rationalization. I repeat, however, that several ministers of the former government, Messrs. Reynders and De Clerck, came to Tournai and almost laid the first stone, but when I ask Mr Geens a question, he tells me at the limit that we do not know too much yet. The fears of the Turnish Justice are that there is no more scenario, no more scenario 1 or scenario 2, but perhaps a third, a hidden agenda of the Justice that would say: it is finished the courthouse in Tournai and we go elsewhere. However, if I can hear you well, we are still talking about the existence of two scenarios that we are going to study to determine whether we are opting for the renovation of the courthouse or the construction of a new courthouse. For the time being, Minister, you are telling me that both scenarios are still being considered.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic224x.u27	Yes, but if Justice decides to leave Tournai for some reason, the Régie des Bâtiments has nothing to say. In this case, we work for our "clients".
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic224x.u28	Mr. Minister, you are putting my optimism on a bliss. So I think my fears are well-founded. You are right and I thank you for your frankness because I did not necessarily have that frankness in the other answers. When you tell me that we need to study the needs of Justice in Tournai, admit that it is the land of surrealism and that it is a bit Kafkaian, when two ministers say that a new courthouse will be rebuilt. I guess at the time, they had a little bit of a study of the needs of the Justice of Tournai. Tell me now that it is necessary to consider whether there are any real needs in terms of justice to know whether to make a scenario, two scenarios or possibly three scenarios, namely bye bye Tournai, admit that it is a bit tragic-comic! I thank you, anyway, for your frankness.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic224x.u29	Mr President, Minister, someone from the Régie des Bâtiments told us about a land belonging to the Defence and located on the site of the Luchet d'Antoing in Tournai. It would not be used at present and could accommodate the new courthouse in Tournai. Of course, we come back to everything I said in my previous question. As the owner, what do you intend to do with this land? A new courthouse or something? As the mayor of Tournai, I am interested in your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic224x.u30	Mr Delannois, I can confirm that there is a field belonging to the Defence at the Luchet wharf in Antoing in Tournai. An estimate of its value was prepared by the Acquisition Committee. The Régie des Bâtiments has acquired it. This land is unoccupied. A feasibility study has already been prepared. This study confirms the possibility of building a new entity for the justice of Tournai on this site. In addition to your other question, scenarios are possible. On the one hand, there is land for a new construction. On the other hand, there are buildings. We need to see what is the best solution, but I will only be able to respond with the program of their needs.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic224x.u31	Minister, you have the means to set up a new courthouse through a whole range of land, but the Justice has yet to confirm that it really wants to do so on Tournai. Says so, we agree.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic224x.u32	Mr Delannois, we are at the service of our clients, who are all the other FPS. If they make a decision to build a building, giving architectural characteristics (color, number of premises, etc.)), we can start talking but the decision is in their hands. Sometimes I'm a customer and a builder. For the federal police, it's easier!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic224x.u33	You can build it and I guarantee you it's not about the color we're gonna get mad at!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic224x.u34	Mr President, Minister, this question, tabled a few months ago, is somewhat out of date. At the time, the press reported that a giant hole had formed on the floor of Lantin prison. The prison staff were concerned about this and expressed concern that the prison would go into ruins. It is also concerned about the very stability of the building in view of the collapse. The building is said to have been built on underground galleries. Workers made a temporary repair by pouring concrete into the hole. Many were concerned that the destruction of the building would lead to the final closure of the prison in the short or medium term, which would lead to the need to re-construct nearly 500 prisoners in other Kingdom prisons, who were already victims of unacceptable overcrowding. This is not the only important problem in the structure of this building and yet only makeshift repairs are proposed. Minister, did you visit the scene to learn about the situation? What are you planning for Lantin's future? What do you intend to do in the short, medium and long term to ensure the safety of inmates and staff and to provide a decent living environment for inmates and decent work for staff? When can Lantin hope for a solution to the ruin of his building? If a major renovation is planned, how and when do you intend to do so?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic224x.u35	Mr. President, Mr. Frédéric, as you know, I visited the offices of the Régie des Bâtiments in the ten provinces. I have been shown pictures and films of the repairs that have been undertaken. I was very impressed by the extent of the hole that had to be filled with concrete. It gives us some thought. As soon as the land subsidence was observed, the competent federal institution for which I am responsible, in this case the Régie des Bâtiments, immediately visited the site to study the situation and take the necessary measures to stabilize the land. Lantin's future is addressed by Prison Masterplan No. 3, which is currently being implemented. In other words, the decision-making process is proceeding properly. Its content will be communicated to you as soon as the discussions that are currently taking place within the federal government are finalized. I can confirm that Koen Geens is fine-tuning this masterplan. We discussed last week the finalization of the final details. I think that this file can be submitted to the government before the holidays or immediately thereafter. What are we going to do in the short, medium and long term to ensure the safety of the premises? The recent events relayed by the press are a consequence of the presence of former phosphate wells at the Lantin prison site. It is important to note that the quick repair, i.e. the filling of the cavity by concrete up to the foundation level of the building, is the only one recommended in this case and is of a definitive nature. At the time of its construction in 1977, a large microgravimetry study was conducted at the site of future buildings to locate the old wells and underground cavity potentially subject to significant soil compactions. This study had led to massive reinforcements of concrete in the ground, especially under the building of the arrest house, whose foundations are now well-seated. On the other hand, it can be said that the building of the prison has already been the subject of an expertise in 2014, which has led to ad hoc reinforcements of its structure. The state of the structure of the building was considered to be generally good. Therefore, the stability of the building does not put detainees and staff at risk. With regard to the other buildings at the site, they do not show any particular weaknesses and their stability does not in any way threaten the safety of detainees and staff. The area that collapsed a few weeks ago is at the limit of the 1977 study. That's why it wasn't detected. Despite this, the affected building behaved well and was not damaged. In order to remove any uncertainty on the site, the Régie des Bâtiments will carry out as soon as possible a supplement to this 1977 study in order to locate areas at risk that would not have been detected in the past. Areas that would be identified as potentially at risk of settlement following this additional study will be strengthened according to the relevant rules. Lantin is in the process of being renovated. The Régie des Bâtiments works continuously within the prison, with a result recognized by the occupant. Six construction projects are under implementation for a total amount of around €6 million and three other major projects are under consideration for implementation in 2016. In addition, some blocks have indeed suffered premature wear and tear, but this is more due to their overexploitation. Lantin's buildings are not in ruins. The renovation work is continuing at a steady pace. Moreover, it would not be possible to carry out more simultaneous actions within the institution without affecting the organisation of internal security.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic224x.u36	Minister, thank you for your answer. I hear several things. First, the Minister of Justice will land. That's the good news. It has been overflying, waiting and asking questions for a few months in certain establishments that you have been in charge of in your capacity as minister in charge of the Régie des Bâtiments. Secondly, significant investments are made and the technical elements communicated on Lantin are reassuring. I imagine that when the Minister of Justice landed, there is obviously no question of questioning the very existence of Lantin. Indeed, we are just talking about a complementary study of phosphate wells. A few decades later, even if we are not responsible for it, we can ask ourselves about the opportunity to build a prison on phosphate mining galleries. I will check that Lantin is not being touched in Masterplan No. 3, which was not planned under the previous legislature. Finally, I will relay your reassuring information on the current quality of the building and the investments made there.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic224x.u37	Mr President, Mr Minister, as you probably know, given the state of the premises of its buildings, the prison in Verviers has now been closed for several months. Indeed, the mayor of the city was forced to take a closure order because it was enough to push on the bricks to be able to get out of the prison, which, you will agree with me, is not the objective. In January, I warned you that this case was going to obsess me somewhat because the said prison is located in the city centre, three minutes away from the courthouse, which is also deteriorating, and for which we are also waiting for investments to be made. A icing on the cake, the firemen were given permission to train in this abandoned and sacked prison and, in particular, set fire to them during practical exercises. In April, following these exercises, I asked you about the timing of the work and you replied that you were waiting for a response from the Minister of Justice. Here we are facing a ping-pong game, in which you excel. Thus, you refer to the fact that you are a service provider while your colleague is a customer or vice versa and that, in doing so, you have to wait. Minister, at the time, the respectful man that I was trying to draw your attention to the fact that you are also Deputy Prime Minister responsible for Security and that, in doing so, a small conversation with the Minister of Justice seemed to me to be appropriate. Not seeing anything moving, I thought that a visit to the site and a few photos could help each other to have a concrete view of the situation. So I went to the scene about three weeks ago. I'm not telling you that the condition of this prison is deplorable. I was able to see that significant investments had recently been made to secure the site. However, the interior is purely and simply in a lamentable state. If a decision is not taken quickly, we may face some difficulties. But maybe you'll tell me good news! I therefore plead for the reconstruction of the prison in Verviers, in the shortest possible time and at the current site because a relocation would only prolong the waiting period. In addition, the wall has been renewed and can easily be maintained as part of a new project. It is important for me that this prison can be rebuilt, not only for prisoners in the Verviers region and their families, but also for the workers of this prison, who are still being transferred to other regions, such as Luxembourg, Paifve or Lantin. These workers fear that they will have to continue to travel within the territory. Minister, since we are close to landing, does the Verviers prison always appear in the masterplan 3 decided by the previous government? Can we see the reconstruction of this prison within a reasonable time? Even by deciding now, it would not be operational until 2018, 2019 or 2020. So there's an emergency!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic224x.u38	Mr President, a great statesman has said "Optimism is a moral duty"! Mr Frédéric, the situation of Verviers could be foreseen in Masterplan 3 "Prisons". I told you in the previous question that the decision of the Minister of Justice would no longer take much time. You're talking about a ping-pong game, but I wouldn't say the same. It is the Minister of Justice who must present his case to the government, which decides. Then the Régie des Bâtiments took over the work. So it's not a ping-pong game. All you have to do is submit the Masterplan 3 file to the government. This moment is near. Once the decision has been taken, all relevant information, including the timing of the work and the method of financing, will be provided. At this stage, I can only repeat that the case of Verviers could be foreseen in the masterplan 3 "prays" project. A decision on this matter may be taken in a very short period of time. I understand very well everyone's concern about the content of Masterplan 3, but I think the decision could take place just before or after the holidays.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic224x.u39	Mr President, I thank the minister for his answer. I understand that he can't tell me more about Masterplan 3 because he's not a Minister of Justice. I would remind you that he is Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Security, and that he himself says that there are recent discussions to say that a conclusion is close. It has information, which unfortunately I will not have today. It's not a big deal. But as a parliamentarian in the Verviers district, minister, I am not happy that Verviers is making her talk. In Verviers, there is a total disinvestment in public services. We are facing a serious problem with this prison as well as with the Verviers courthouse, which, as you know, is still waiting for investments to enable it to continue to function. I would not want us to pretend to forget this district between the district of Liège and the German-speaking community, with obligations on bilingualism, for example. I do not want to be disinvested in this region, to say at some point: "It is too late, we will not rebuild neither the prison nor the courthouse", forcing the citizen to go to Liège. It would be, in my view, in any case – no one is interested in it, but it is not serious, I say – and in the eyes of all the political actors in the Verviers district, totally unacceptable. I would like to wait a little longer, but I assure you that there would be a mobilization on this issue because this would be unacceptable to the Vervietos.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic224x.u40	Question No 5756 by Mr Michel de Lamotte was withdrawn. Minister, this was our last meeting on the Régie des Bâtiments before the holidays.
