ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic276x.u1	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Lahaye-Battheu's 5934 will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic276x.u2	Mr President, Minister, in the summer the government appointed two business banks, Leonardo and Nomura, to calculate the value of the state participations and to identify the strategic options for the companies concerned. The provisional version shows that Belfius is valued at EUR 6.2 to 7.2 billion. Belfius would be expected to be ready for sale by the end of 2016. Minister, I am happy to hear from you when you expect the final full report. Will this study provide an accelerated solution for ARCO co-operatives? After all, I suspect that one is inextricably linked to another. Is this calculation also taking into account the billions of guarantees given to Dexia for which the Belgian State guarantees? The exercise of these two business banks was taken in the light of a possible sale to reduce government debt. Is any one-off income also weighed against the annual dividend flow that one sees? Or aren't you ready to consider it yet? Are there any plans or conversations about a possible sale? Are conditions imposed on the financing of the municipalities and the real economy, or a sale to Belgian players? What does this mean for the bank's staff? How are the other financial shares of Ethias and BNP Paribas valued?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic276x.u3	Mr President, Mr Vanvelthoven, the report has been presented very recently to the board of directors of the FPIM. This has also been published very quickly in the press, as is often the case in such situations. However, I have scheduled discussions with both the FPIM Board and representatives of Leonardo and Nomura to obtain further explanations and explanations on a number of points in the report on a number of specific aspects. As far as valuation figures are concerned, I would therefore like to show some caution and not too much on the figures circulating in the press. For the rest, I can agree with the comments I made yesterday in connection with the discussion on the Finance Policy Paper. The valuation of these government shares is, of course, an important aspect of the whole of this discussion. However, it is much more than the question of whether we would receive EUR 6 or 7 billion for this in the event of privatisation. I believe that financial participations should be examined in depth in view of the importance of a bank such as Belfius on the financial market and the financing market in Belgium, both for individuals and companies. Any decisions on this matter in the government's bosom are, in my view, an integral part of the decision-making process, as are the valuation of those holdings. As far as ARCO is concerned, of course, the consequences of the valuation that has now taken place and how this has been integrated must be assessed. However, this only happened a few days ago. Therefore, I have not yet had the opportunity to have in-depth discussions with representatives of Leonardo and Nomura, on the one hand, and the board of directors of the FPIM, on the other. However, this will happen in the coming days.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic276x.u4	Mr President, Minister, I understand that you still need to look at and discuss this. You are talking about the next few days. I therefore assume that you want to have a clear view of this dossier before the end of this year?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic276x.u5	Minister, Tax-on-web is regularly discussed in committee. A few months ago, I raised a problem with you when it appeared that the new system no longer automatically provides the optimal distribution of deductions for married couples who took out a loan for 2005. That service used to be provided. So a lot of tax obligations will be disadvantaged and large sums paid too much or will have to pay if the attack falls on the bus. You said at that time that it was not possible to set an optimization, but that there is the possibility to simulate the distribution in order to achieve the most advantageous situation. In response to my previous question, you said: "The FPS Finance is currently working on additional explanations for the users of Tax-on-web in the form of a pop-up, which will appear when completing the relevant codes. If it is possible to simulate what is most advantageous, then why can't the most advantageous formula be applied automatically? To what extent has the additional explanation been developed and applied in the meantime? Have the citizens been informed that they can request a correction? If so, how did that communication happen?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic276x.u6	You referred to your written question of 16 July on Tax-on-web. In the answer to Parliament's question No. 511 by Mr Deseyn of 11 August, I refer, among other things, to the problem of the roll-out of the sixth state reform, which allows for a charge in the four fiscal baskets. For example, a distinction should be made between two types of optimization, in particular vertical and horizontal optimisation. The vertical optimisation refers to the distribution of capital repayments and life insurance premiums among the four tax baskets, while the horizontal optimisation applies in the case of a joint declaration and relates to the distribution of a particular item of expenditure between the two partners. In order to be able to optimise, the taxpayer must therefore choose which situation is most advantageous to him. Therefore, the taxpayer should carry out simulations itself either through the calculation modules in Tax-on-web or through tax-calc to calculate the taxes due in the various scenarios. The development of a more general optimization requires, as I hear from the FOD, substantially more time and requires an analysis of its usefulness and the number of possible users. In addition, any change in this matter, implemented by the Regions, will further increase the cost of optimisation. On 1 July there was a pop-up in Tax-on-web to clarify that the distribution of amounts between certain codes is not automatically implemented and that taxpayers can calculate the optimal distribution via simulations.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic276x.u7	Minister, my question was not really about the choices that taxpayers have to make from the four baskets, but about the automatic distribution between two partners, such as men and women, as was always the case in the past. I understand that the pop-up has arrived, but I understand that for the rest there is no active communication from the FPS Finance, from the tax authorities, about the extra explanation or about the fact that people can request a correction.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic276x.u8	I listen with great interest to the Minister's question and answer. You have the floor, Mr Dedecker.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic276x.u9	Mr President, I understand that you are passionate about the problem, and I am of course passionate about it, otherwise I would not ask the question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic276x.u10	I'm interested in the theme.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic276x.u11	Mr Minister, you and the chairman of the committee are undoubtedly aware that a large number of collective agreements have agreed that the employer pays a premium to those trade unions for the benefit of workers in a trade union. The workers concerned may receive contributions from the trade union or obtain a reduction in their membership of the trade union. I would like to refer you to the administrative comments on income tax, namely number 31/5. This sumes up the actual remuneration which, in principle, are taxable in the name of employees. This is a very comprehensive list which includes, in addition to wages or bets, tips, commissions, holiday fees, attendance fees and even fees for wear and tear of tools. Paragraph 9 also states that 'I quote'social allowances granted to workers who are members of a trade union (trade union contributions regardless of whether they are awarded in cash or in kind, for example in the form of documentation or a book voucher) '. In 1971, however, for practical reasons, the then Minister of Finance authorized the trade unions not to submit the trade union contributions to the company tax and not to mention them on the individual sheets. Moreover, no social contributions should be paid up to EUR 135. 1971 has been behind us for a long time.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic276x.u12	The Minister of Finance was then Mr Snoy and Mr Oppiers of the PSC. He also introduced VAT.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic276x.u13	Thank you, Mr President. I didn't know that man personally, because I wasn't born then.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic276x.u14	That was a very decent man of nobility and he was Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic276x.u15	That's great. I think we can even dedicate a documentary to him. So it's been a while, meanwhile it's 2015. We live in a fairly computerized society, in which questions can be asked about practical reasons for maintaining a kind of tax favor regime for trade unions and trade union contributions. In addition, we can, of course, ask more questions about this. That provision has come into the collective bargaining agreement to guarantee social peace, but I have seen little of it in the last two years. So much for my comments on the trade union bonus. In addition, workers, self-employed persons and beneficiaries of unemployment and invalidity benefits can also apply the trade union contribution, the membership fee paid to the trade union, as deductible professional costs. For employees we can talk about this; it could be said that it concerns representation costs. However, I do have serious questions about deductibility as a professional cost for the unemployed and bridge-retired. I find membership money from a trade union to be a professional cost for an unemployed person or a bridge-retired person particularly strange. I believe that any effort to get to work, to follow further training or to take courses is of course deductible, but that does not apply to the membership of the union paying the benefit, whereas that union itself is already financed by the government through an administrative fee. Mr President, first of all, are there any reasons for the practical exemption from taxation for trade union contributions today? Is that still defensible? Secondly, are you prepared to dispose of the exemption and introduce a chip requirement for the trade unions that receive the premium? The introduction of the chip obligation can be by royal decree. At what time do you intend to do so? Thirdly, do you believe that the deductibility of the trade union contribution, the membership fee, as a professional cost for the unemployed and bridge-retirement workers is still justifiable today? Is that still from this time of year? Fourthly, if we abolish the deductibility of the trade union contribution and tax the premiums effectively, then that will of course yield a lot of money. I have already released a figure on this in the media. Of course, it is intended to give that back to the people. Hence the question of how much the tax-free minimum could increase in that case in order to speak of a budget-neutral operation for the government. So that would be a kind of mini-tax shift, while the money definitely goes back to the taxpayer. Finally, do you see any other practical reason for making these adjustments or not?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic276x.u16	Mr Dedecker, I should like to summarize my answer in three points. Firstly, the explanatory notes on the personal income tax declaration for the 2015 tax year clearly state that the trade union premium is a taxable fee, which must be declared. It is true, however, that in the apparently blessed year 1971 the then Minister of Finance granted the trade unions for practical reasons permission not to subject the trade union premium to the company tax, nor to mention the individual sheets 281.10 and summary statement 325.10. Since the practical reasons used in the past are no longer really relevant because of the computerization of the whole process, I will look together with my administration to see if there is any possibility of a change in this respect. Secondly, trade union contributions in principle have the nature of professional costs which may be deducted from professional income. There can be no dispute as to the principle of deductibility, since these contributions meet the legal criteria for deduction as professional costs. The extent to which such costs or other deductible costs should remain effectively deductible should, of course, be the subject of a more comprehensive study, which could take place in the context of a simplification of income tax. Thirdly, in view of the limited deadline for replying to oral questions, it has not been possible to calculate the proceeds of abolishing the deductibility of contributions and the effective burden of premiums and their conversion into the increase in the duty-free minimum, as you have put or requested. I should therefore like to ask you to put a written question on this subject, with a view to a specific answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic276x.u17	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I will certainly take your last suggestion to heart, I will immediately put a written question for the precise calculation and also ask how much the net wage of the people could increase if we were to carry out that mini-tax shift, if I may put it that way. The premium is indeed clearly defined in the explanatory notes to the tax bill on personal income tax, as you say. It seems clear to me that the premium must be indicated. I wonder whether the declarations will also be checked and whether there will be any possibility of monitoring them. I believe that we should make it clear to the people that the premium must be indicated, but follow-up is also necessary through effective control. The practical arrangements concerning the obligation to provide a copy are an instrument for checking the declarations. I look forward to the changes you will propose in this respect.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic276x.u18	Mr Calomne will be here shortly for his question No. 7215, because he is now on the Committee on Defence, where he also asks an oral question. I have not heard from Mr Deseyn about his question No. 7225.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic276x.u19	Mr Calvo, I have a problem with your question because you are plagiarizing. Did you request permission from the author?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic276x.u20	You will notice that I have mentioned it at the bottom of my written record: "Thank you in advance for your answers, Kristof Calvo, People's Representative (With input from committee chairman Eric Van Rompuy) ". It is indeed a bit of a special question, it was also a very simple question to put, because it is indeed the literal take-over of the committee chairman's latest blog post, on the financing of the tax shift. I re-entered the blog post, because I think, Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I also said yesterday that it is not good that there are still a lot of questions about this. Mr President, I have also been pointed out that I seem to have taken over typo lines and write errors from your blog. If you would ever look for someone to read your blog, I would always like to help, in return. All madness on a stick, I have a number of questions that I ask together with the chairman of the committee. For example, there is the flou around a number of planned tax increases, cayman tax, tax fraud, payback effects, redesign. Can the expected 950 million euro interest charges be realised by the end of the government period? Next question I may have to take up again with regard to the Minister for the Budget. Where are they going to find billions in public spending to save? In primary expenditure on justice, security, asylum and refugee policy, defence? Or in health insurance? Maggie's pockets are closed. Or unemployment? Kris Peeters thinks he's saved enough as it is. Or in pensions? I'd like to quote one more. Hopefully we didn't end up in the miserable purple Verhofstadt-Vande Lanotte period where tax cuts went to earn themselves back and the interest rate falls were popped up. That is where I disagree with you, Mr President. I know that CD&V is still traumatized by those two policy periods that she wasn't there. But purple-green is a period in which many people, including yours truly, are homesick. Because then there was a very different wind from the conservative wind that is blowing today. We also achieved the great Lambermont state reform, Mr Vuye, one of the three state reforms that we have carried out.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic276x.u21	Ask the Minister your question on the basis of the text. You don't have to spread.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic276x.u22	The first state reform that Mr Vuye has managed to negotiate and get approved is still awaited. In short, Mr Van Overtveldt, once again there is an opportunity to clarify this about the tax shift. Thanks to colleague Van Rompuy for the preparatory work, among citizens and our companies, we are right to insist on this. Mr Van Rompuy, by the way, there is a vacancy for a staff member of our group Budget and Taxation. If, after your preparatory work, you would like to participate even more in our group work, you have the opportunity.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic276x.u23	I read your programme "Green with a vision." As an employee, I could not possibly write a text in which I would increase taxes by EUR 8 to 9 billion over the next few years. You shouldn't ask me that. I won't apply. Minister, you may answer, even if you did so yesterday.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic276x.u24	I will do it a little more detailed, albeit that kind of answers and explanations will be the order of the day in the coming weeks. Some repetition makes sense in this too. With regard to the proceeds of the measures already taken, I confirm the figures you have quoted, Mr Calvo, from your written question, as I have and from the sources you have explained in detail. The estimates of the viewing tax are based on data from the National Bank and the FPS Finance. The measure has already been discussed in detail in the Finance Committee, as well as the budgetary sheet, which will of course remain available at the Court of Auditors. The other two amounts are not intended to finance the tax shift. The payback effects due to higher revenues and lower spending, inter alia, through improved competitiveness and its broad impact in an economy such as the Belgian economy and the fact that there are more people at work due to the tax shift, will help to clean up the budget. Let me stress once again, as I said yesterday, that we are assuming a conservative assessment of the impact of the tax shift in an international context: EUR 900 million and 11% of the effort. International examples quickly go in the direction of 15% to 20% as a payback effect of such an operation. Interest charges would decrease from 10.653 billion in 2015 to 9.663 billion in 2018, and to 9.844 billion in 2019 according to more recent estimates, including new assumptions due to the evolving environment. The downward revision of tax revenues by EUR 882 million in the latest budget was not directly related to developments in economic growth. These are advance payments, in proportion to EUR 715 million, and VAT in proportion to EUR 167 million. As far as advance payments are concerned, it is now assumed that a certain number of measures will not affect them, e.g. the reduction of the reference rate of notional interest, intercommunals and diamond tax. The downward revision of VAT took place on the basis of the revenue for the month of August, which became known only after the publication of the monitoring committee report. The reduction in revenue there is due to a sharp increase in VAT refunds. The estimate of revenue takes explicit account of the expected economic evolution, which is more sophisticated than a simple link to the increase in GDP. For example, the elasticity of growth, slightly different from the elasticity of inflation, is taken into account to give only one important example in this respect. In its method, my administration makes the revenue of the various taxes explicitly in correlation with the economic reference variables, which appear to be relevant. The estimates of revenue are linked to the available estimates of the economic reference variables, and more precisely to the economic budget published by the Federal Planning Office. This is reflected in detail in the general explanatory memorandum each year. The government has therefore taken into account at that time what was available for economic prospects when drawing up its budget. Finally, the objective remains to achieve a structural balance in the budget of all governments jointly in 2018. The tax shift is fully funded until then. Therefore, the extra 100 euros net monthly wage, which we are talking about, is not under discussion. However, in order to balance the budget, a very clear effort will be needed, as well as to maintain that balance afterwards, when the additional burden reduction of 2019 and 2020 will be introduced. I repeat: neither the Prime Minister nor myself have ever left any doubt that additional efforts will be necessary. However, it seems to me a little absurd to say that in a country with a government debt which is still above 50%, no further savings on expenditure would be possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic276x.u25	Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive answer. It is also relevant to the discussions over the next few days. So I will read the written version with great attention. From the last part of your answer, I would like to point out that the priority for you is the further restructuring, the search for further savings. Let that be an invitation to the Members of this House to follow this with extra vigilance. Let the fact that the budgetary picture is not entirely laid down also be an invitation to you to see how our taxation can be made much fairer. It goes without saying that, with or without the help of the chairman of the committee, we will continue to raise this issue in the coming months.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic276x.u26	We can indeed go into this in more detail in the budget negotiations in the coming weeks. As I said yesterday, it is Parliament's job to take a critical look at the figures and assumptions and to see whether what is promised by governments can actually be achieved in budgetary terms. I stand by it, it is Parliament's job. We will certainly be able to discuss this further in the budget negotiations.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic276x.u27	Debates of the European Parliament 7293 by Mrs Sabien Lahaye-Battheu has been converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic276x.u28	Mr President, Minister, a particularly well-documented article in the excellent French newspaper Le Monde, dated 6 November 2015, denounces the systematic way in which the Netherlands, the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg and Belgium have prevented, in recent years, attempts to reform the so-called harmful tax systems benefiting multinationals, a reform desired by the European Union. A "harmful tax regime" means a preferential tax system designed by a State to attract businesses, allowing them to artificially relocate profits and harming the countries in which the activities are actually carried out into tax revenues. These issues have been dealt with since 1998 in the European Union's Code of Conduct (Business Taxation) group. This group was set up by the ECOFIN Council and is primarily responsible for assessing and monitoring the provision of information on tax measures falling within the scope of the Code of Conduct in the field of business taxation adopted in 1997. The Code of Conduct is not a legally binding instrument, but its adoption requires Member States to commit themselves to eliminating existing tax measures that constitute harmful tax competition and to refrain from introducing new ones in the future. This group has worked in particular in recent years on certain ruling practices, with a view to encouraging or forcing their spontaneous exchange, or on support for patent boxes (license boxes). The article from the World describes, on the basis of reports to which Members of the European Parliament's Tax Committee have had access, how some countries have slowed down any progress in this area. For example, the report of a meeting on 17 April 2012 states that the Netherlands, Luxembourg and Belgium have spoken against a discussion in the Code of Conduct group on a framework for licensing or on a minimum effective tax rate. Today, despite years of work and despite the emolument generated by the LuxLeaks, cooperation between states for a fairer and more efficient taxation is still at a standstill, to the greatest benefit of a few multinationals and to the detriment of public finances and citizens. We discussed this yesterday in the context of your general policy note, but we expect, as ecologists, more transparency between states and some form of European fiscal convergence. Minister, have you read this article of the World that I have attached to my question? If so, do you agree with its conclusion that Belgium was one of the biggest opponents of any initiative to combat harmful tax regimes? For what reason and on the basis of what mandate did Belgium adopt this attitude? In concrete terms, who represents Belgium in the work of the Code of Conduct Group? On the basis of what mandate? To whom do these representatives report the results of the Code of Conduct Group's work? In what form? Are these reports accessible to Parliament? How? Are the government's responses to the Code of Conduct group also available to Parliament? How? Are you ready to provide us with these documents? How long? To resume part of yesterday's debate, what is the situation with regard to the automatic exchange of rules between states? How many rulings has Belgium communicated since the LuxLeaks? To which States? How many gulings has Belgium received since the LuxLeaks? From which states?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic276x.u29	Mr Gilkinet, with regard to patent boxes and the effective minimum tax rate, Belgium's position at the meetings of the Code of Conduct Group in recent years cannot be described as "systematic obstruction". This can be summarized as follows:- Belgium is prepared to adapt its deduction scheme to patent income by reinforcing the substance requirement as defined by the OECD and the Code of Conduct, Nexus approach group; - Belgium is not in favour of the principle of an effective minimum tax rate in so far as this will have the effect of recaptured the benefit of preferential but non-harmful tax schemes. Belgium is represented in the Code of Conduct group by its tax attaché at the Permanent Representation of Belgium to the European Union and by a representative of the tax administration. The work of the Code of Conduct Group is the subject of reports to the Minister of Finance and the Permanent Representative of Belgium to the European Union for the preparation of the ECOFIN Councils. Only the reports of the ECOFIN Councils are public. As regards the exchange of rules, we have started this exchange with other Member States of monetary union. So far, we've already traded thirteen rulings. A number of rulings will follow in the near future.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic276x.u30	Minister, you will agree with me that the charges brought by the newspaper Le Monde are very serious. They are also particularly well documented. It was on the basis of reports prepared by a representative of another country that these statements concerning Belgium's lack of cooperation or systematic obstruction were written. As parliamentarians, we should be able to monitor the veracity of these statements. I understand that the reports provided to the government are not available to parliamentarians. However, they would be useful in our goal of eliminating this tax competition between States, which benefits only groups and individuals with the ability to move their money, wealth, revenues from one State to another to avoid taxation, to the detriment of the community. In this context, the EU Code of Conduct Group is of major importance and I really regret that Belgium does not play a more proactive role in this area. You are opening up amendments to patent income legislation to verify the substance of the activities benefiting from a tax deduction. I will check in the coming months that you are making an amendment to the law. On the other hand, you are not in favour of abolishing tax systems that are particularly attractive to businesses, even if they have no substance. You have already explained this to us and I have already told you how much I find this counterproductive choice in relation to the objective which must be the correct collection of the tax and the contribution of each one according to his or her actual capabilities, including the companies. Therefore, following this inquiry, I will table a motion for a recommendation requesting that you provide us with these documents, these reports from our two representatives in the Code of Conduct Group, for the last five years so that we can give our own opinion. I also ask to provide us with the official answers that the government, including the minister before you, could provide to the questions of the Code of Conduct group in order to eliminate these harmful tax practices. Finally, I would ask you to play a proactive role in contributing, step by step, to a certain form of European tax harmonisation, since tax competition between Member States only reduces their ability to collect tax correctly and correctly and to benefit only those actors who are able to relocate their income or wealth.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic276x.u31	In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. A motion for recommendation was tabled by Mr. Georges Gilkinet and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Mr Georges Gilkinet and the response of the Minister of Finance, responsible for combating tax fraud, asks the government - to provide Parliament with the reports to the Government of the Belgian representatives in the Code of Conduct (Business Taxation) group set up by the European Union for the last 5 years; - to provide Parliament with the government's official answers to the questions of the Code of Conduct (Business Taxation) set up by the European Union for the last 5 years; - to adopt a proactive and voluntary attitude in the framework of European work on the fight against 'damageable' tax systems, the automatic exchange of information and the establishment of a tax base common to the various European countries, thus contributing to the progressive construction of a European tax harmonisation." A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr Georges Gilkinet and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mr Georges Gilkinet and the answer of the Minister for Finance, responsible for combating tax fraud, asks the government - to provide the European Parliament with the reports forwarded to the Government by the Belgian representatives in the Code of Conduct Group set up by the European Union (Business Taxation) over the last five years; - to provide Parliament with the official answers for the last five years which the government has formulated to the questions of the Code of Conduct Group set up by the European Union (business taxation); - adopt a proactive and voluntaristic attitude in the context of European work on combating harmful tax systems, on automatic data exchange and on establishing a common tax base in the various European countries, thus contributing to progressive tax harmonisation at European level." A simple motion was tabled by Mr. Hendrik Vuye. A simple motion was tabled by Mr Hendrik Vuye. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic276x.u32	Mr President, Minister, these questions follow on from the first debate we had in the Economic, Public Health and Finance Committees on October 7. I then asked you about the tax impact of the VW group's misappropriations, both with regard to the premiums that were given – even if they are no longer so now – by the federal government for the purchase of cars that produced little CO2 as well as for company cars. You then told me that, on the basis of the information available to you, there was no impact since the fraud involved NOx emissions, not CO2, on which the tax advantages enjoyed by motor vehicles are based. More recent information indicates – and this has been confirmed this Monday in the Special Committee on Dieselgate – a strong suspicion of non-conformity with regard also to CO2 emissions from vehicles marketed by the VW group – and perhaps also by other groups – which is why I would like to ask you again. Until 1 January 2012, the federal government allocated on-bill reductions for the purchase of so-called "clean" vehicles, based on vehicle CO2 emission estimates. This competence is now exercised by the Regions. Even if the federal state no longer exercises this jurisdiction, it may be feared that he was also the victim of these manipulations at the time he was competent. And while it is obvious that the owners of the vehicles concerned cannot be penalized for a fault committed by the manufacturer, the federal state cannot remain unreactioned towards the VW group. Other States or Regions have already decided to act. That's why I'm asking you, Minister. Can you tell us what total amount of invoice reductions for the purchase of clean vehicles was allocated by the federal government for the years 2010 and 2011? Of these, how many were VW vehicles? Do you have any indications that the CO2 emission data used to award these premiums have been falsified by the VW Group? On the basis of the new information available in this file, has an investigation been carried out to this effect by the Federal State? If so, is the federal government considering filing a complaint with respect to the VW group and claiming reimbursement by the group – and not by the car owners – of unduly allocated premium amounts? That's my first question. The second has the same development but is particularly relevant to company cars. Has the federal government initiated an investigation following recent information on the handling by the VW group of CO2 emissions from its vehicles? Where appropriate, through which body? Do you have any information confirming or disproving that such manipulations also concern vehicles registered in Belgium and, in this case, company cars? If so, how many? If so, is the federal government considering filing a complaint with respect to the VW Group and claiming reimbursement from this group of unduly allocated tax reductions for these corporate cars? Are any other steps taken in this area? What kind are they of?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic276x.u33	Mr President, Mr Gilkinet, the total amount of the so-called invoice reduction for the purchase of clean vehicles allocated by the Federal Government for the years 2010 to 2012 amounts to €231.2 million for 2010, €316 million for 2011 and €108.4 million for 2012. As regards the details of the statistics, the tax administration does not have detailed data at the level of car brands that can use the clean vehicle reduction. On the basis of these statistics, it goes without saying that the administration is not aware of the number of VW vehicles which have benefited from this discount on invoice. The federal discount premium on invoice could be granted for new cars paid by November 31, 2011. Currently, the period during which Volkswagen handled CO2 emission estimates is unclear. Similarly, the number of cars involved is not yet fully known. The number of company cars involved could not yet be determined either. The impact depends on the factual data specific to this case and on the technical measures that are not within the jurisdiction of the tax administration. We have received, the Minister of Mobility and myself, a personal letter from the president of the VW Group dated 6 November 2015, which informs us that the VW Group will provide useful information to the tax authorities as soon as the necessary data have been collected. In my answer to your question of October 7, 2015, to which you are referring, I already stated that I had instructed my administration to examine the consequences of this case, but that their estimation of tax revenues depends on the specific impact on CO2 emissions. The government is obviously attentive to the development of the VW case. We will decide within the federal government what action to take when we have all the necessary elements. To date, no investigations have been conducted by the federal government.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic276x.u34	Minister, thank you. You say the government is attentive. I would like to be proactive on this issue. The VW Group is committed to providing useful information on whether these vehicle CO2 emissions frauds have had an impact in terms of tax reduction. All right. This is very good on their part, but you also have to say that you find it serious and that you want your administration to prepare a slightly more precise state of affairs. We cannot depend solely on the momentum of the VW group on the subject. As you have not closed the door for the government to take further initiatives on the file, I will re-examine you. But I'm asking you to pay attention to it. I think we cannot leave such a serious fraud unpunished and unreactioned. That would give the sector the signal that everything is allowed. I note that other States have already announced that they will file complaints against this group and any other group that would have similar practices.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic276x.u35	Mr Minister, I agreed with Mrs Van Cauter that I would give her the written answer to both of our similar questions, since she is now on the Committee on Justice and is therefore prevented here. Mr Minister, the programme law of 10 August 2015 introduced a measure allowing SMEs to pay a tax of 10% for the special liquidation reserve for the 2013 tax year until 30 November 2015. For the 2014 tax year, the final deadline for paying the tax is 10 % 30 November 2016. For the 2014 attack year there is still some time. However, many SMEs are considering making both the payment for the 2013 tax year and for the 2014 tax year in 2015. This is not explicitly excluded by the programme law. At the moment, so shortly before 30 November 2015, the date of practical application of the law, there are still a lot of questions. Minister, can you confirm that the special liquidation reserve for the 2014 tax year can also be established and paid in 2015? Can you also confirm that the five-year period after which a payment at a rate of 5% of withholding tax becomes possible also starts to run a year earlier? When a company pays earlier, does the other period start a year earlier? For the sake of clarity, can you indicate in your answer when the five-year period for the special liquidation reserve is beginning to run exactly, so that it becomes clear to the figures professionals who are currently faced with these questions?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic276x.u36	Mrs Wouters, I can tell you, firstly, that the amount of the special liquidation reserve is limited to the amount of the post-tax accounting profit associated with the 2013 or 2014 tax year. This is also reflected in 9905 of the result processing and is still recorded in the reserves or in account 14 Transferred Profit at the beginning of the financial year in which the special charge related to this was paid. In other words, the tolerance quoted by you relates to the profit of the 2013 or 2014 tax year that would be booked on account 14 Transferred Profit. After all, that profit can be entered in account at the destination of the result 14 Transferred Profit, so that, at the beginning of the financial year in which the special assessment relating to that profit is paid, an amount may be shown on that account which is wholly or partly derived from the post-tax accounting profit associated with the 2013 or 2014 tax year. That amount may then be eligible for the creation of the special liquidation reserve by way of tolerance, even if that is not strictly a reserve. There is therefore no question of any charge, as you have just evoked. On the basis of the above, it can therefore be clarified that the special liquidation reserve, which could in principle be established in your first example, is based on the assumption that the full profit for the financial year 2013 is recorded in a reserve account or in account 14 Transferred Profit is 50 and in the second example, assuming that there is no subsequent decrease in that available reserve, 100. I would like to remind you that Article 541 of the Income Tax Code 1992 aims to allow a company to benefit retroactively from the regime of the liquidation reserve for profits, after tax in respect of the financial years related to the tax years 2013 and 2014. That scheme does not allow the creation of a liquidation reserve of profits for an earlier financial year, since the profits could already be eligible for the transitional winding-up bani regime provided for in Article 537 of the Income Tax Code 1992. As regards the creation and payment of the special liquidation reserve, I can confirm that Article 514 on the special liquidation reserve for the year 2014, as introduced by Article 82 of the Programme Act of 10 August 2015, requires only that the special liquidation charge be paid by 30 November 2016. We have postponed that deadline to 15 December this year. The provisions therefore do not preclude the creation and payment of a special liquidation reserve for the year 2014 as early as this year. In addition, Article 82 of the above-mentioned Programme Act entered into force on 28 August 2015, allowing the creation of the special liquidation reserve, both for 2013 and 2014, from that date. For the determination of the retention period, the same rules as were already applicable to the liquidation reserve, introduced by the Programme Act of 19 December 2014. In other words, the period starts to run from the last day of the taxable period in which the special liquidation reserve was established.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic276x.u37	Thank you, Minister, for a comprehensive answer. You have, of course, also been able to answer the question put by Mrs Van Cauter, after an earlier question from myself. I am therefore very pleased that it is now perfectly clear and I hope that the figures professionals will now be able to proceed with the clarification of the law. I thank you in advance for postponing the deadline until 15 December. They will be very grateful to you, for it is short notice, and with that they have two weeks extra to apply all the clarifications.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic276x.u38	Minister, we talked about it yesterday. I'll spare you my introduction. Yesterday, you referred to what is going on internationally. It is still unclear to me what you meant by that. You said that this path has already been taken in the Netherlands and France. You are referring to a change at European level. What exactly is that? Why was it necessary? You refer to judgments of the European Court of Justice. Can you provide data on these judgments that make the tax authorities change their shoulder?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic276x.u39	First of all, let me make it clear that this dossier has been under discussion for years and that our country has not applied European rules for years. I therefore felt that it was my duty as a minister to be consistent and to comply with laws and rules and not to turn a blind eye to Europe around this discussion. We have approached the dossier pragmatically. If we have to interpret the European rules according to the letter, there should be any type of public drinks, wherever they are located, that should be subject to VAT from the first euro. We have been working on a pragmatic solution, referring to what the Netherlands and France in particular are doing. We respect the rules but at the same time the social values that I share and added value of youth homes. Following some VAT checks at youth homes, it was found that there was an urgent need to clarify the applicable VAT rules. This communication is contained in the decision ET 128.632 of 5 November 2015. In this context, my administration has carefully examined whether an exemption from the VAT Code can be applied to the work of youth homes. Under these provisions VAT is exempt, and I quote, services and supplies of goods closely linked to the protection of children and young people carried out by organisations recognised by the competent authorities as social institutions. This provision in the Belgian VAT book is a transposition of the relevant European VAT Directive. To the extent that youth homes aim to provide young people with the opportunity to participate in some social and cultural activities in their leisure time to promote their overall development and social integration, they are exempt from VAT under the provisions of the quoted article of the VAT Code, provided that they are recognised by the competent authorities. Now it appears to me that I am about to make a number of very specific references from constant case-law of the European Court of Justice that acts which are not indispensable for the exempted acts, as well as those carried out in direct competition, are excluded from the exemption. I refer, inter alia, to the Kingscrest judgment, with reference C-498, the judgment in Stichting Kindervang Enschede and the judgment in Ygeia. There are therefore several European judgments of the European Court of Justice which are clear and clear in this respect. It is difficult to say that the provision of drinks and the use of a drink is essential, in other words absolutely necessary, for the protection of young people. That is the basic point of those statements, of which I will give you the references and details on paper. If a youth house operates a drinking place that is accessible to everyone, I believe that the EUR 50 000 threshold, which is already double the future threshold for the exemption scheme for small businesses and other associations, represents an important relaxation of the current VAT rules. Moreover, the fact that this would be a youth home with membership is not relevant. Moreover, it will not be possible to return to possible infringements that would have been committed in the past. My administration does not have precise data to know how many youth homes would exceed the EUR 50 000 threshold. There has been a consultation with those responsible for the youth homes. However, it was legally impossible to respond to their demand for a full VAT exemption.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic276x.u40	Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. We will examine the judgments of the European Court of Justice, because if I understand correctly, it is the essential nature of the acts. Minister, I can imagine when a catering operation is no longer linked to a youth home, which many youth homes can no longer run, and therefore there can no longer be any socio-cultural activities. For this reason, I will consult the Court of Justice's judgments in order to understand the extent to which the Court of Justice is involved.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic276x.u41	Mr.President, Mr.Minister, judicial officers have, since January 1, 2012, been subject to VAT on their fees. Lawyers have been subject to VAT since 1 April 2014. As far as lawyers are concerned, legal aid services are subject to a VAT rate of 0 %. This is reflected in an administrative circular of 20 November 2013 stating: "Pro deo benefits for lawyers and trainee lawyers: 28. The pro deo services provided by lawyers and trainee lawyers, natural or legal persons, to litigants who benefit from second-line legal aid, are subject to VAT at the rate of 0 %. Although there is no VAT on pro deo benefits, the lawyer or trainee lawyer may, as an ordinary taxable person, exercise his right to deduct the upstream tax." The judicial officers also operate under the guise of pro deo, when legal aid has been ordered in favour of the litigant. To do so, as is the case with lawyers, they are also paid by public funds. However, they do not receive a rate of 0 % for pro deo benefits and are liable for a VAT of 21 % on these benefits. Thus, there seems to be a difference in treatment between these two actors in legal aid. Minister, is there an objective reason for this difference in treatment? What justification for treatment can be used with regard to lawyers and bailiffs who exercise their office in the context of legal aid? Do you not think that this situation should be rectified and a rate of 0 % VAT should be applied for the acts carried out in this context?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic276x.u42	Mr Calomne, thank you for these questions. In principle, lawyers' services are subject to the normal VAT rate of 21%. By way of exception, the compensation paid primarily by the FPS Justice for pro deo benefits rendered under second-line legal aid is paid at a rate of 0% without prejudice to the right to deduct lawyers. When the tax system for lawyers was introduced, this tolerance was provided by my predecessor in order to ensure access to justice for low-income people. There is no reason to justify and maintain a difference in treatment between the benefits of a lawyer performed under the cover of legal aid and those of a judicial officer in the same framework. It is therefore appropriate that the latter's benefits also benefit from the rate of 0 %.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic276x.u43	Thank you very much, Minister, for that clear and precise answer. Is there a deadline for implementation?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic276x.u44	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic276x.u45	Minister, I believe it is no secret that the FPS Finance servers have been suffering from technical problems for many years. The result of this is, of course, a huge pressure on the rating professionals. They do want to submit their tax returns in good time, but if they do not want data processing, it is sometimes difficult. In any case, I think that the figures professionals are pleased that you have given a delay in submitting certain declarations in a number of cases, so that certain declarations can still be submitted in good time. On the other hand, this is of course no longer a way of working for the grade workers. It is a matter of urgency for this to be taken into account and for the real problem to be resolved. The servers of the FPS Finance apparently want to end occasionally, that of course especially at peak moments. We experienced this at the end of September when filing the corporate tax return and at the beginning of November when submitting the VAT returns. Apparently, it is not only the servers that are occasionally overloaded but there are also regular problems with authentication and errors in the calculation of personal income tax, which, of course, was due to the sixth state reform which required a number of adjustments. Minister, I have some specific questions. What are we going to do? Can we increase or replace the server capacity of the FPS Finance so that the servers are no longer overloaded? Do you have other structural measures in mind to modernise the IT infrastructure of the FPS? I also pointed this out to you yesterday, during the explanatory statement to the policy plan. We want a good service and digitalisation of that service. Of course, this hatch is also very important. Apparently, a number of software houses may not properly program those calculation methods because they are not getting sufficient information, so they say. What steps have been taken to address this problem? In what way? There will be many changes in taxation in the future. How are we going to deal with this in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic276x.u46	I'd never heard the word grader before. Is that a new concept?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic276x.u47	That is a concept that we have been using here for many years.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic276x.u48	I had never heard that before in the Flemish Parliament. What's a grader?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic276x.u49	Those are accountants, tax advisors and everyone who has anything to do with that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic276x.u50	Mr. Secretary, have you heard that word?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic276x.u51	Mr President, I had already heard the floor and I have already used it myself. So I should know what it is. I agree with Mrs Wouters' definition. Ms Wouters, the FPS Finance ICT services are trying to deal with the important peak moments of Tax-on-web as best and professionally as possible by achieving a controlled and constantly monitored distribution of what comes in across the servers. An architectural optimization of the applications used has been under way for a long time. This process is in full swing and should lead to the necessary structural adjustments in this flow. The fact that the last tax return has become a lot more complex because of a number of issues that had to be included in it as a result of the sixth state reform has increased the urgency of the peak moments. As far as I could tell, the questions of the software houses, which are indeed asked directly to the administration, are answered systematically and quickly. I therefore believe that this complaint is not entirely consistent with what is happening on the ground.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic276x.u52	Mr President, Minister, I am of course asking what I hear in the corridors and in the group of figures professionals. It is necessary to focus on this structural adjustment, including for the people who have to work with it on a daily basis and are constantly confronted with things that cannot continue and thus lose a lot of time in filing the declarations. You seem to have a view of this and there is plenty of work to be done to adapt it structurally and to solve the problem in a structural manner.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic276x.u53	Mr Minister, in the case of infringements of laws or implementing decisions, the VAT Act provides for proportionate and disproportionate fines. Royal Decree No 44 of 9 July 2012 doubled the amount of the disproportionate tax fines in the field of VAT to EUR 50 to EUR 5 000 per infringement. The disproportionate tax fines mainly concern infringements of a formal nature, such as the failure to submit a periodic VAT return in due time or the failure to submit the annual list of customers subject to VAT. Sometimes it is also a matter of accidentally misfiling a VAT return without the irregularity having an impact on the taxable person's net VAT position. Even that could lead to a fine. It is a fact that there have been regular problems with e-services, which made it difficult for rating professionals to submit their returns in good time. I am pleased that you have extended the deadline every time there was a problem, but when they are confronted with the VAT fine system, it is of course very difficult for them. I believe that there should be a revision of the system of fines and that we should rely on good faith, which is partly reflected in the policy plan that you outlined yesterday. I think that is a fact of life. On 9 June 2015, you indicated at the Taxman Meeting that you were planning a thorough review of the VAT system. That was also in your policy plan. You referred to Parliament's question No. 872 also said that you would consult with the representatives of the numbers professions and that there were several mixed working groups working in this area. Minister, I have seen that you want to do something about this in the coming year. How far have discussions with the representatives of the grade occupations progressed and how far have the work of the mixed working groups progressed? Do you have any idea when you will come to the Chamber with a final solution? Royal Decree No. 44 of 9 July 2012 abolishes the barema of the former administratively reduced fine, which means that a reduction or remission of the disproportionate fine for a first or second infringement will no longer be applied. Do you intend to re-introduce that tolerance for a first or second offence? I have also understood from your policy plan that you want to rely on good faith, but I would like to know what the current state of affairs is.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic276x.u54	Mrs Wouters, during the previous legislature, fixed VAT fines for non-compliance with VAT obligations, such as the submission of customer listings, inter-Community declarations and the like, almost doubled and are imposed in any event, even in the event of a first infringement by the taxpayer. It is clear in the coalition agreement that we have a more nuanced vision of this. In accordance with the coalition agreement, I therefore call for the good faith of the taxpayer to be taken into account. In particular, in the case of a first infringement, the fine will not be imposed in any event if the taxable person still complies with his obligations within a time limit imposed by the administration. I will therefore give the necessary directives to the administration. With regard to your question concerning proportional VAT fines, we are in agreement with the representatives of the rating professions to undertake a reform of Royal Decree No. Forty-one to come. More specifically, we are now waiting for a concrete proposal from this angle, which we will, of course, examine, both at the level of the cabinet and at the level of the administration, in accordance with the general principles that have just been laid down.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic276x.u55	Minister, I am pleased that everything is being done in consultation with the people involved on a daily basis. Of course, their support and consent will increase their support.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic276x.u56	Mr President, the organization of urgent medical aid is one of the general tasks of the assisted areas. In principle, a zone is exempt from VAT. The first paragraph of Article 6 of the VAT Code provides that public institutions are not to be regarded as taxable persons for the purposes of the activities or transactions they carry out as public authorities. However, that exemption shall expire where there is potential distortion of competition or where the annual turnover of the contract exceeds the amount of EUR 15 000. For the purpose of billing certain urgent medical assistance orders, it appears that not all zones, depending on the local departments, should charge the same VAT. In other words, whether the zones are subject to VAT for certain tasks depends on the interpretation of the relevant VAT office. I have heard that there would be a draft administrative circular which would further clarify the tax obligation. Is that right? Will that problem indeed be dealt with? If so, when can we expect the publication of that circular?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic276x.u57	Ms Wouters, the publication of the administrative circular on the tax liability of public bodies is expected by the end of the year at the latest. The circular will enter into force on 1 July 2016. It has already been agreed with the relevant actors to provide for a period of six months between the publication of the new circular and its entry into force. The administration will therefore organise the necessary information sessions to inform the relevant actors about the new rules.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic276x.u58	Thank you for your answer. So everyone is equal before the law and everyone is treated in the same way.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic276x.u59	Mr Calomne urgently needs to go to the Defence Committee. He asks to ask his question out of order. Mr Calomne, this is your question No 7556 on the "SME loans" of the European Investment Bank for the benefit of Belgian banks. If everyone agrees, we can give the floor to Mr Calomne.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic276x.u60	Mr President, can questions Nos 7556 and 7586 be grouped together?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic276x.u61	Question No 7586 is by Mr Vanden Burre, but he is not present. Will he come? [[Oui]] In that case, we'll wait.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic276x.u62	Mr President, Minister, a study by Fairfin shows that the banks operating in our country finance up to nine times more fossil fuel projects than renewable energy projects. For BNP Paribas, Deutsche Bank and ING it was about nine times more, for KBC only twice more. Belfius was the exception by funding four times more green projects during that period. Unfortunately, that trend has stopped since the bank was in government hands. In total, the banks in Belgium invested 122 billion euros in fossil fuels over a period of five years, while for renewable energy this was only 14 billion euros. Since the banks play a leading role in the energy transition and given the poor results, I have the following questions for you. First of all, do you have a reaction to this study? Secondly, will you encourage the sector to invest more in renewable energy and reduce the funding of fossil fuels? Thirdly, will you also follow up this study at European level? If so, how do you intend to get along with your European colleagues? Fourthly, the Bank's guide also shows that Belfius and BNP Paribas score poorly in terms of sustainability. Let us think about climate, human rights, weapons and so on. Will the government ask our representatives to place sustainability higher and more concrete on the agenda?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic276x.u63	Minister, at the international level, the risk of investing in the carbon sector (coal or oil extraction, coal-fired power plants) is growing. Many financial institutions or investment funds have chosen to disengage from this sector. This is the case, for example, of Natixis Bank, Crédit Agricole in France and of ever more pension funds in northern Europe. More and more academics point to the risk of carbon investment. The Bank of England has just published a report entitled The Impact of Climate Change on the British Insurance Sector, explicitly recognizing this risk and pointing to the fact that British investors are overexposed. Indeed, in order to maintain global warming at less than 2 °C Celsius, only one fifth of fossil reserves can be exploited. The economic and environmental costs of extracting these reserves are likely to explode. In any case, investors will lose. Either we do nothing and the climate crisis will generate even higher collective costs than today, or we act and fossil-related assets will lose a significant part of their value. In short, there is an urgent need for the financial sector to also take this risk into account. Minister, can you tell me your views on the carbon risk for the Belgian financial sector and on the need for decarbonisation in order to bring about new concepts? Do you think that, overall, the Belgian financial sector (banks and insurance) is highly exposed to carbon risk? There is this study which has just been mentioned by Mr Vanvelthoven and which I have also read. Do you have figures on this subject? What about Belfius, a 100% bank owned by the Belgian State, for example? Like the Bank of England, is the National Bank of Belgium currently studying the exposure of the Belgian financial sector to carbon risk? What are the first conclusions of these studies? If so, when will they be completed or when will they start? Are measures planned to limit the Belgian financial sector's exposure to this carbon risk?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic276x.u64	Mr Vanvelthoven, I regret to admit that I have not yet been able to look at the study you are conducting. However, I can assure you that I will certainly do so in the coming period. In any case, as a government, we clearly support the idea of more investment in renewable energy. However, we believe that the fact that some banks invest more in fossil fuels than in renewable energy is not so much a deliberate policy, but rather a reflection of the fact that, unfortunately, our economy is going to say, what I also share is still largely fossil fuels. There are currently no concrete plans to address the issue specifically to banks at European level. Specifically with regard to Belfius and BNP Paribas, I can give you the following. Firstly, BNP Paribas has apparently reduced funding for fossil energy. The financing of the energy transition and the reduction of its share of climate change are a priority for BNP Paribas. In 2011, the bank developed a financing and investment policy for sectors with a high environmental impact. These are coal, mining, paper pulp, palm oil, nuclear power stations, agriculture and tar sands. Its objective is to reduce the environmental impact of their financing and investment in sensitive sectors. The so-called sector policies apply to all its products and services around the world, as I am confirmed. They determine the conditions for funding to be accepted by BNP Paribas. They were established in consultation with the NGOs operating in that sector. Furthermore, the group's general credit policy includes a number of so-called ESG criteria, environmental, social and governance. The major infrastructure projects are covered by the equator principles, which BNP Paribas endorsed in 2008. Furthermore, the bank is committed to financing renewable energy. The group finances more than 135 renewable energy projects worldwide, including 96 windmill projects. A total of 22 000 megawatts of installed capacity, generating electricity for millions of people. BNP Paribas was involved in the main wind farm project in the North Sea, namely 85 kilometres from the Netherlands, through funding of €2.1 billion. The park will provide electricity to 785 000 households and will save 1.25 million tonnes of CO2 annually. BNP Paribas also finances energy efficiency projects, including a hybrid car project in Japan, which will be financed this year through the securitisation of credits. The BNP Paribas group recently published data on its financing in 2014 of the electricity mix. With 23 % renewable energy, specific water, solar and wind energy, and 59 percent fossil fuels, gas, coal and oil, the group is doing better than the world mix, which according to the International Energy Agency would be 21 and 28 % respectively. I would like to make two more points concerning the BNP Paribas score in terms of sustainability. Firstly, VIGEO, an agency for extrafinancial ratings, places BNP Paribas among the best in its recent ranking of banks according to their social responsibility practices, including environment and governance. Secondly, Bloomberg, which examines which banks are most committed to protecting the environment, places BNP Paribas at number 2 in its 2014 edition of the World Banking Greenest Banks. With regard to Belfius, the method used by the Fair Bank Guide following the study you mentioned is undoubtedly correct, but also incomplete. Not everything is being taken into consideration. I refer in particular to three points. Firstly, the Belfius Bank invests exclusively in the Belgian economy. It finances directly, so certainly not companies like Gazprom or Hyundai. Within the Belgian economy, Belfius' production focuses on families, SMEs, the public sector and to a lesser extent on companies or the corporate sector. Secondly, the investments within the insurance institution Belfius Insurance are managed in accordance with the Portfolio21 principle, taking into account certain criteria, controlled by an independent party, the aforementioned VIGEO. The criteria used here are human rights in working conditions, according to ILO standards, and serious environmental damage, following the approach of the Norwegian State Pension Fund. The Faire Geldwijzer, for whom he wants to make his money sustainable, of FairFin, indicates the products of Belfius Insurance, by the way, together with Ethias, as products of good choice. Customers therefore have all possible choices to make a sustainable investment. Thirdly, the questionnaire raises a number of questions about elements that do not apply to Belfius, such as the bonuses. With regard to the more specific elements of Mr Gilkinet's question, it is clear that it is up to the National Bank of Belgium and the European Central Bank, in the context of the supervision of so-called significant banks, to determine whether the extent of the exposure of the Belgian financial sector to the sector to which you refer is likely to require particular attention and monitoring. It is the supervisor's role to conduct a risk analysis and, depending on it, to decide whether further analysis or prudential action is required. It is therefore premature to consider measures before having a view of the risks incurred by the Belgian financial sector. Nevertheless, I think it is necessary to recall that the situation in our country is very different in terms of comparison with the United Kingdom. We must not lose sight of the fact that Belgium, unlike the United Kingdom, is not producing oil, gas or coal, and that, therefore, the involvement of the Belgian financial sector in the exploitation of fossil fuels is not at all of the same nature as in the case of the other Member States. This dimension is important in the assessment of the sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic276x.u65	Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you have put this in a comprehensive perspective with regard to Belfius and BNP Paribas. It would be nice if the government would also send a signal to the wider banking sector that it would be socially advisable to make an energy switch in their investment policy, and if you were to bring that up at European level, but I understand that you do not see that at the moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic276x.u66	Mr Minister, in response to Mr Vanvelthoven's questions, which I could also have asked, you have been the faithful spokesperson for BNP Paribas and Belfius. For the first, if there are five to six billion annual investments in the renewable sector, about fifty billion are invested in fossil fuels, ten times more! In view of the economic, environmental and geopolitical challenges posed by the deinvestment of the carbon sector, BNP Paribas – of which we are the first shareholder – is not a good student. Moreover, it is a financial risk for states to allow banks to invest disproportionately in the fossil energy sector. This is our conviction, as well as that of an increasing number of analysts and academics around the world. That is why it would be useful – but you have not completely closed the door – for the National Bank to produce a more in-depth study of the exposure of our banks. Of course, they are less at risk than those dependent on countries with oil or gas resources. Nevertheless, FairFin's study shows that their exposure is not zero. This risk should therefore be taken more into account. In order to anticipate the next question, I believe that we must also look at the financing of terrorism by oil resources. This is why reducing oil sector financing is a real geopolitical challenge, while investing in renewable energy is an economic challenge and promotes energy efficiency. I therefore call on you to implement this foresight in a prudential and economically sustainable manner.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic276x.u67	Mr President, Minister, following the January attacks in Paris and the anti-terrorist operations carried out at the same time in our country, the federal government announced 12 measures to combat terrorism and radicalism. These include the activation of the legal mechanism to identify those involved in terrorist financing and the freezing of their assets. The aim is to implement a recommendation of the FATF (the international body responsible for monitoring money laundering or the flow of money between terrorists) within the framework of an intergovernmental agreement that Belgium has signed. More generally, it appears that the Daesh terrorist movement derives its resources from the oil wells it controls. While it is difficult to quantify precisely this financial manna, the different estimates reported speak of $1.2 million to $3 million a day. In September 2014, a small sentence from the EU ambassador to Iraq, Jana Hybaskova, stirred up in Brussels. Before Members of the European Parliament's Committee on Foreign Affairs, the ambassador said that "unfortunately, Member States of the European Union are buying this oil." Apparently, this is done via Turkey, which is Daesh's main place of sale of this oil. Minister, can you indicate what steps have already been taken to implement the GAFl recommendation? What are the first results of these measures? What measures still need to be taken? Have the circulars announced under the twelve-point plan been published? Can they be made available to Parliament? What is your calendar in this file? Do you agree with us that this issue should be extended to the purchase of oil in Daesh? What is being done in Belgium and at European level to control the origin of refined oil in our territory and to limit economic opportunities for Daesh? Are new measures envisaged in this regard? Which ones?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic276x.u68	Mr President, Minister, as Mr Gilkinet has just pointed out, Daech has an impressive financial capacity. In the fight against terrorism, however, tackling these financial resources is an indispensable step. I think that is something we can all agree on. Tackling their financing means cutting off their oxygen, halting their infernal and malicious dynamics. This is obviously not the only thing to do; we must also explore other avenues, whether on the political, diplomatic or military level. Following last January's attacks, which targeted Charlie Hebdo, but also the cashier shop, your government announced a series of 12 measures to combat terrorism. One of them was to activate the mechanism provided for by law to identify persons involved in the financing of terrorism whose assets had to be frozen. The Prime Minister explained at the time that this fifth measure was to be implemented under the recommendations of the FATF, an intergovernmental organization that combats money laundering and terrorism. In the Prime Minister's statements, it was stated at the time that the OCAM would prepare a list of suspected terrorists or terrorists whose assets were to be frozen, as the administrations of the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Justice had been given the task of preparing an implementing circular in that regard. Minister, has this circular been taken on the recommendation of the FATF? If so, can you tell us when and send us a copy? If the circular is applicable, could you tell us if, to your knowledge, it has already produced its effects? In other words, have any assets already been frozen, in the case of persons presumed to be involved in terrorist networks? With regard to the resources and financial flows of Daesh, have any initiatives been taken by the government in European and international forums to block them? If so, which ones and with what results?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic276x.u69	Mr. Chair, a circular was signed by the Minister of Justice and myself on September 7, 2015. This circular concerns the implementation of Articles 3 and 5 of the Royal Decree of 28 December 2006 on specific restrictive measures directed against certain persons and entities in the context of the fight against the financing of terrorism. This involves the establishment of a procedure for freezing the assets and economic resources of persons and entities who commit or attempt to commit terrorist offences. As a result of this measure, OCAM can now transmit to the National Security Council data on persons or entities related to terrorist offences, in consultation with the support services. The OCAM shall forward the proposal for a decision, including the reasons, to the competent judicial authority. The file shall be forwarded to the National Security Council only if the judicial authority confirms that the proposal for a decision, including the reasons for the decision, does not affect the exercise of public authority. OCAM forwards the file to the National Security Council via the Minister of Justice. As soon as the National Security Council has made a decision on the OCAM proposal, the file is forwarded to me through the General Administration of the Treasury responsible for preparing the national list. The Council of Ministers should approve proposals for listing or withdrawing from the national list. This list allows financial institutions and other stakeholders to freeze assets and economic resources (liquidities, balances in accounts, credits, etc.) persons or entities on that list or, conversely, to lift that freeze. So far, no files have been sent to us. Following a gap identified in the FATF's AML/CFT evaluation of the bank last February, a draft law, which we discussed yesterday, approved the Council of Ministers on 24 September 2015, amending the law of 11 May 1995 and relating to the implementation of the decisions of the UN Security Council will soon be submitted to Parliament. This bill aims to enable the immediate implementation of the financial sanctions referred to in the resolutions adopted by the UN Security Council under Chapter 7 of the UN Charter. The Minister of Finance may decide to freeze all or part of the assets and other financial means of the persons, entities and groupings referred to in the resolutions for the period from the entry into force of the resolutions until the resolutions and lists of persons, entities and groupings established in accordance with the resolutions, including each amendment, are transposed into European law. Also following the FATF assessment, a working group is considering the establishment of a procedure for the freezing of assets following a request from another FATF member country. My department is also collaborating on the Terrorism Financing Platform established by the National Security Council and chaired by Mr. Delepière, President of CTIF, whose three priorities are as follows. Its three priorities are risk assessment of the financing of terrorism, the establishment of a national policy to combat the financing of terrorism and the strengthening of consultation and exchange of information between the Financial Information Processing Unit and other relevant services. Since 2009, by Commission Regulation No 1102/2009 of 16 November 2009 amending for the 106th time Council Regulation No 881/2002 imposing certain specific restrictive measures directed against certain persons or entities associated with Usama bin Laden, the Al-Qaeda network and the Taliban, the Islamic Army (other name of the Islamic State, the Islamic State or Islamic State of Irac and the Levant (ISIL), in English, Daesh) has been subject to the freezing of economic assets and resources. At the international level, the importance of UN Security Council Resolutions 2170 and 2178 must be stressed. The first is the ISIL-Al-Qaeda, the second is the foreign fighters. These resolutions form the binding framework for combating the financing of ISIL. Finally, I would like to inform you that the FPS Finance is coordinating intensively the work of transposing into Belgian law the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of May 2015 on the prevention of the use of the financial system for the purpose of money laundering or the financing of terrorism. My intention is to introduce a draft bill transposing this directive as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic276x.u70	Mr. Minister, thank you for taking a comprehensive look at what has been implemented and what will be done to combat the financing of terrorism. I really believe that we need to make it a priority, assess what has already been achieved and consider what we need to implement for the future. We discussed it yesterday during the debate on the organization of work. We'll decide next week what we'll do with it. For example, hearing Mr Delepière on the three priorities you have set out and on the legislative initiatives to be taken would be particularly useful for Parliament, whether in the Finance Committee or in the Terrorism Committee. I link up with the question about the fight against tax havens since it appears that terrorist movements regularly use them. I also come back to the issue of oil. As regards the traceability of oil sold at the pump in Belgium, we must be certain that it does not contribute to the financing of terrorism. In the longer term, being able to do without oil and fossil resources would be a way of combating the financing of these terrorist movements, but also of making Europe more autonomous towards countries that have oil or fossil resources in their subsoil and are not the largest democracies on our planet, which we can only regret.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic276x.u71	Mr President, Minister, when you developed your explanations about the circular, I was struck by the fact that you did not refer to the intervention of the Financial Information Processing Unit. Having said that, you reassured me somewhat when you explained to us that the latter is in the Terrorism Financing platform of which Mr. Delepière is president. The Financial Information Processing Unit is therefore involved in the process. I was simply surprised to see that his opinion is not being sought, at some point, within the framework of the process that has been set up involving the OCAM, the judicial authorities and the National Security Council. But it is true that his intervention may have been solicited by the officials of the OCAM. Still, this point deserves to be clarified. Furthermore, without wishing to argue, we have learned that this circular dates from 7 September 2015. So it took eight months – I am talking about the period between the taking of the circular and the Charlie Hebdo attacks in January – for the circular to be adopted. I think it's a little too long. It may be due to a number of reasons. I don't make it a point of controversy, but I wanted to raise this point of fact. However, if measures are to be taken today, I hope that the same deadline will not be necessary for their implementation. It is clear that Belgium and France are operational areas for these networks. Whether you like it or don't want it, it's obvious. If this has not already been done, I wonder, minister, whether it would not be necessary for you to contact your French counterpart, Mr Sapin. Indeed, the latter has already taken a number of measures. Perhaps, for the sake of consistency, a strengthening of collaboration should be established between your services and all those concerned by the September circular. We can consider it in the form of a joint working group. Anyway, there's something to do. Mr. Jambon quickly contacted Mr. Cazeneuve. Maybe you could do the same with Mr. Sapin. I think that makes sense.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic276x.u72	Mr President, Minister, since 1 January 2014, it is prohibited, in the case of the sale of goods, to collect a payment in cash if the total price exceeds 3000 euros. This is an important exception to the rule that a cash transaction can be accepted. This regulation applies not only to traders but also to service providers. It seems that, for this reason, car traders are facing difficulties, such that Belgium is losing much of its export market. Indeed, foreign buyers often have only cash as a means of payment. We can, of course, wonder why, but it's a fact. Countries like Germany and the Netherlands are recovering the market, so the movements of their ports are to the detriment of Zeebrugge. In order to avoid such distortion, a Community standard had been drawn up. Minister, where are we in this regard? Will projects be submitted quickly?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic276x.u73	Mr Piedboeuf, my answer will be very brief. At present, no legislative changes are envisaged at European level. This means that, at national level, the limit for payment in cash remains at EUR 3 000.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic276x.u74	Minister, thank you. It is, of course, a pity that such a distortion between Member States persists.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic276x.u75	We were just talking about computerization in the context of another subject. Computerization is, of course, an ungoing process in the government. One of the basic issues in computerisation is a good policy on authentic sources. Data are only stored once in an authentic source and then shared among the different administrations. In this way one avoids that everyone has their own copy and is no longer up-to-date. That leads to mistakes in the end. The federal government agreement therefore contains the following paragraph: "In consultation with the municipalities, the functioning of the National Registry and the Land Registry is optimized and they supply their data free of charge to all entities within the governments of that country. The General Administration of the Patrimonium Documentation has already taken some important steps. I mention, among other things, the DER project and the STIPAD project. Notaries are delivering digital records today. Registration, land register and mortgage are integrated. What is the state of play in the implementation of this passage in the coalition agreement? Which steps have already been taken and which have yet to be taken? Is the exchange with the Flemish tax service and other public services free of charge? How exactly does that happen? The application CadGIS makes it possible to consult the cadastre plan online for free. Anyone who needs an official extract from that cadastral plan, from the so-called cadastral legger, must pay EUR 5.50. An extract from the cadastral plan costs 11 euros. How many applications for such extracts have the administration received in recent years through the website and through the physical offices separately? Who are the main applicants? How many individuals requested such extracts, online and via the offices? What is the cost in terms of workload and internal deployment of people and the like for the administration to make such an extract in these computerized times? In the Netherlands, on 1 January 2016, the land register will be opened for free as open dates for everyone within five weeks. Anyone can go there for free to get all that data. Belgium also has a federal open data strategy approved by the Council of Ministers, which provides, inter alia, that as much non-privacy-related information as possible is released in a free review and at marginal cost. To what extent does the federal open data strategy apply to the land register? Are you considering opening the land register as open data? If not, why not?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic276x.u76	Mr President, Mr Dedecker, through the mandates and powers of the Coordination Structure for Patrimonium Information, the CSPI, the coalition agreement will be implemented as foreseen. This coordination structure is a formal consultative body between the Regions and the federal government. Pending the installation of the members of the Management Board, the FPS Finance plays a coordinating role in various working groups in this regard. As a result, the exchange of data with FLABEL is already a fact. The exchange of information between parties in that framework shall, by definition, be free of charge. In order to assess their specific needs for cadastral data, the various associations of cities and municipalities were invited to a first consultation by the general administration of the Patrimonium Documentation on 30 October 2015. In the first 10 months of 2015, there were a total of 251 404 applications for plan extracts, of which 167 603 via CadGIS. Throughout 2014 there were 281 860, of which 196 481 via CadGIS. Overall, most plan extracts are requested by, in order, first, notaries, second, citizens, and third, to a lesser extent by real estate agents and surveyors. Some 60% of applications via CadGIS are requested by private individuals. The production and handling of a plan extract takes an average of 20 minutes, but the exact cost, which also includes personnel costs, letter covers, rent of buildings, appliances, maintenance applications and so on, is currently not determined. My administration, the FPS Finance, will investigate which elements of the cadastral documentation are eligible as open data. It goes without saying that this examination will take into account explicitly the nature of the cadastral data, such as personal data, tax data or even merely geographical data.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic276x.u77	Minister, I note that there are a lot of requests, a large majority via CadGis and another 100 000 per year manually via the window. That seems to me to be a great deal, so there are possibilities for further computerization and cost-cutting. Sixty percent of the applications are made by private individuals. That is quite a lot and is again an illustration of the fact that there is a big question, which clearly demonstrates the possibilities for open data. Open data obviously means that there is no privacy sensitive information available, because it is not intended to be able to consult the tax information of anyone. This seems obvious to me and is also included in the open data strategy. We also need to be sober about it: there is little point in explicitly not making things available online that can be applied for manually. That would be a silly argument. I look forward to further steps on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic276x.u78	Minister, since the beginning of this month, the office of the Maintenance Claims Service (SECAL) in Arlon has closed its doors. SECAL is responsible for assisting citizens in the recovery of maintenance payments decided by the courts and in the payment of advances on such pensions. Given these essential tasks to prevent the risk of poverty faced by some single-parent families, including women, physical, close contact between the Service and beneficiaries is of particular importance. The recent closure of the Arlon office is therefore regrettable since the citizens concerned will have to travel to Neufchâteau, Marche-en-Famenne, even Dinant or Namur, more than an hour's drive from the Arlon office, as long as there is a car, or much more with public transport. Minister, do you confirm the decision to close the office of the SECAL in Arlon? What are the reasons for this decision? Can you tell me if other decentralized offices of this Service have been or will be closed in the short term? Which ones? At the national level, what is the policy of proximity to SECAL? How many SECAL offices are located in the country? How many visits do they make each year? How do you intend to allow SECAL to provide community service to its beneficiaries?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic276x.u79	Mr Gilkinet, in order to overcome a shortage of staff in the office of the SECAL in Arlon and the office of Tongres, the local management took the necessary measures, such as the reorganization of the office or the adaptation of hours and days of operation. As these provisions proved insufficient, it was finally decided to redistribute files to adjacent offices, which involved the closure of the offices of the SECAL in Arlon and Tongres. This decision was formalized by a ruling of the Chairman of the Finance FPS Management Committee of 8 October 2015. Previously, the SECAL office in Vilvorde had, for the same reason, been closed on 1 November 2012 and the files transferred to three adjacent offices. After this operation, the Service still has 24 offices throughout the national territory. In terms of attendance figures, my administration does not record the number of annual visits to field offices. So I can't answer the question. SECAL, which is now part of the general administration of Perception and Recovery, follows the policy of communication and reception of the FPS Finances, in general, and more specifically that of that administration. Of course, the Service offers clients the opportunity to visit either an office or an information centre. The administration promises the use of other communication channels that tend to minimize travel. Thus, telephone contact via the contact center will be encouraged or even stimulated, as will contact by mail. In addition, the administration will shortly be able to submit an application for assistance to SECAL by means of an electronic form, with the aim of enabling certain partners, in this case the CPAS, to submit a request for assistance themselves as part of their assistance to the maintenance creditors. However, this does not preclude the creditor from using the electronic form itself.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic276x.u80	Mr Minister, I regret the closure of the Arlon office, as I deplore the closure of the office in Tongres and before it, the closure of the office in Vilvorde, since I think that a certain proximity must be ensured for a service which is particularly useful and statistically especially for women. I understand that in order to compensate, the FPS Finance wants to develop electronic forms of communication. I would like to point out that this excludes a certain public, the one who obviously most needs close contact: weak families. You don't provide me with statistics on the attendance at these offices. For the families concerned, having a community council is really important. Therefore, I would really ask you to reconsider the question of the presence of SECAL's offices in the regions throughout the country and, above all, not to accept any further closures in the future, because they are particularly damaging.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic276x.u81	Mr President, Minister, new Swiss legislation, the revised Law on Administrative Assistance in Tax Matters, now allows the Swiss authorities to respond to consolidated requests from foreign states for information on bank accounts held by their nationals in Swiss institutions. The Netherlands was the first country to activate this scheme and to request information about its nationals who had an account with the UBS bank between February 2013 and December 2014. This was part of a tax fraud investigation. I would like to take stock with you of any such initiatives taken by Belgium, particularly in the context of the investigation into the tax evasion practices suspected of by UBS. Mr Minister, can you tell me whether an initiative identical to that taken by the Netherlands has been carried out or is being prepared by the Belgian authorities, for example by the ISI? If this is not the case, can you elaborate on the reasons for this lack of initiative? If such an approach is envisaged, can you tell me which administrative entity is responsible for preparing it? Within which time will it be completed?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic276x.u82	Mr Gilkinet, unlike the Netherlands, Belgium has to date no legal basis for exchanging tax information with Switzerland for tax purposes in accordance with domestic law. The amendment signed on 10 April 2014 between Belgium and Switzerland will change the situation. As soon as this amendment is applicable, Belgium may request banking information from the Swiss authorities for the purpose of taxing in accordance with domestic law. In principle, it will also be possible to request information about a particular group of taxpayers, although such requests should be used with caution. It is not allowed to go "fishing" to the intelligence. In this respect, the Netherlands' consolidated request for UBS may constitute an important precedent. Finally, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that Switzerland has committed itself to providing financial information automatically from 2018.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic276x.u83	Mr Minister, systematically, when I ask questions about the fight against international tax fraud, I have the impression that you do not share my sense of urgency about the importance of fighting for tax justice, the fight against terrorism and the financing of illegal acts. You're telling me that the endorsement that will exchange information with Switzerland will soon be applicable, but you're not telling me when. I don't feel like you think it's urgent. Can you give me the date from which it will be applicable? You say that, in principle, we can get information but we won't go to the intelligence fishery. You welcome the fact that Switzerland will provide information, but in 2018. It's 2015! We have just talked about the financing of terrorism, the use of tax havens by terrorist movements, and Switzerland is obviously one! I would like, in your leadership and that of the government, more willingness to move forward quickly. We look forward to this amendment being applicable and used by the Belgian tax administration to put pressure on the system as a whole and on those who abuse it, whether it is some countries that are tax havens or some taxpayers who do not respect the rules and commit illegal acts.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic276x.u84	Minister, the High Court of the Netherlands has just condemned Dexia in an action leasing case dating back to the early 2000s. At the time, nearly 15,000 Dutch customers of the Labouchère bank, which Dexia had just acquired, had refused the friendly agreement proposed by the latter following the loss of part of their investment following the stock market collapse. Most of these clients required a refund denied by Dexia on the basis that the complaint was prescribed. The High Court has just refuted this argument. If the judgment concerns only one case, it is likely to make case law, resulting in losses of several tens of millions of euros for the "residual bank", of which we are the guarantor. We debated this yesterday during the introduction of a bill containing various provisions. Minister, do you confirm the information published by L'Echo and De Tijd concerning this judgment? What are the ins and outs of it? Can you tell me how much the maximum financial risk is estimated by Dexia? Has this amount been provided? What is the potential impact of this judgment on the financial health of the Dexia Group? Has it been taken into account in the residual bank's budget forecasts?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic276x.u85	Mr Gilkinet, the deal on equity leasing contracts started in the early 2000s. Several banks were involved, including Dexia following the acquisition of Labouchere Bank in the Netherlands. An agreement was reached in a mediation procedure led by Mr Wim Duisenberg. Some 285,000 clients accepted it, while about 15,000 refused it. The latter are represented by an association for the defence of consumer interests, which is working on a no cure no pay basis and which continues to seek a more favourable settlement from the Dutch courts. The Amsterdam Court of Appeal had to rule on several cases, creating a case law called the "Hofmodel" (the court's model). On this basis, Dexia compensated customers under the due diligence component. With regard to the "Consent of spouses" component, the bank invoked, in a particular case, the requirement of a wife's request for cancellation of the contract. As the case was before the Court of Appeal, the Court of Appeal referred a question to the Supreme Court (Hoge Raad) for a preliminary ruling. The Court ruled that, if a collective action has been brought in the context of disputes over the breach of consent by the spouses, there is no statute of limitations until such time as the collective action is terminated, an extended period of six months during which a simple letter to the bank is sufficient to suspend the limitation. If, after a thorough study, it turns out that this decision extends to customers in similar cases, they should therefore be compensated for their losses. However, the number of clients involved represents a minority of the 15,000 customers who refused the original agreement. It is stated that this is an answer to a question referred for a preliminary ruling and that the case is therefore referred to the Court of Appeal competent in this case. For the rest, I would also like to point out that the content of the articles of the newspapers De Tijd and L'Echo were, apart from the title and the amounts quoted, not incorrect. The content of this judgment is described in the last paragraph below. Given the amounts in question, this decision would not have a substantial impact on the Dexia Group's "financial health" or on the implementation of the ordered resolution plan. Finally, Dexia Nederland has sufficient capital to meet its obligations in these cases.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic276x.u86	Minister, thank you for the accuracy of your answer. I note that there is no substantial impact on Dexia and that there are in any case sufficient reservations to assume a possible confirmation by the Court of Appeal concerned of Dexia's conviction. Minister, I will ask you again in a few months to learn about the follow-up to this issue, which reminds us of how much we continue to assume a significant risk with the assurance we gave to Dexia's managers and because we were not sufficiently demanding at the time with regard to the conditions of prudence to be observed by the banks.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic276x.u87	Mr. Minister, in September Zoomit communicated that, just like in recent years, the hits are payable in the Zoomit application of the various online banking platforms for whom this choice is made when submitting the return. This integration makes it possible to pay the balance directly with one click if you have to pay extra. Shortly before, however, the general public was shown a different communication, including on the VRT-journaals, by top official Frank Robben, who said that from this year onwards all taxpayers will be able to find their tax bill in a new e-box created specifically by the government. Some people fell out of the sky and thought they were getting an extra mailbox from the government, wondering where they were gonna find it and if they could handle it. People were shocked, thought they were going to have to learn to work with a new mailbox. That was not a sensible communication, which is why I have a number of questions about it. To what extent was Mr Robben's announcement on the VRT journal correct? Did the IRS then or is the IRS still considering creating an additional application today, using it to send out the hit notes? Why or why not? How far has this integration been or is it going with the new e-box created by the government itself? What advantage does the FPS Finance see in such a new mailbox, in reinventing the hot water, so to speak, which in 2015 offers a fantastic sounding and very innovative 10 Megabyte space compared to private platforms? What costs have already been incurred for the integration of the e-box into the IRS systems? Which private services and applications is the FPS Finance already working with today to deal with communications, such as the hit ticket or other issues? Do you have any figures on the use by the general public, by the taxpayers, in recent years? Which private services and applications have already contacted the FPS to view possible integration or collaboration? You know that there are a lot of providers for electronic registered shipments and for electronic invoicing, which is a free and open market, where multiples compete for the best service at the best price. In what way or criteria are such questions considered by the FPS from the market? With my next question, I'm looking at your choice as a minister, as a policymaker. Do you believe that the FPS Finance is best placed to work with a government-created or newly built or further developed own system for communicating with taxpayers, or do you previously wish to use a multitude of applications widely used and approved by the public with numerous additional applications and services, from private platforms, integrated with the most well-known cases and allowing them to deal with them? How do you interpret the coalition agreement in that respect?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic276x.u88	Mr Dedecker, for the electronic transmission of the tax bill relating to income taxes to the PC banking of the taxpayer himself, the FPS Finance has called on Isabel and the Zoomit service is used for this purpose. For 2015 there are currently 479 261 active Zoomit files. For the year 2014, this figure was 414 829. For 2015, this means that one in three Tax-on-web users has chosen Zoomit. The FPS Finance started sending out the first tax statements via Zoomit in September. The FPS Finance was not contacted by private services and applications to examine possible integration or cooperation regarding the electronic transmission of the bill. There is no formal cooperation in that domain, even with the application you mention in your question. The communication that has been made in this sense is therefore not conducive to the correct information to our citizens. For my administration, the MyMinfin portal is the instrument intended for electronic communication to and from the citizen. Any synergy is possible between different electronic communication channels, insofar as technical integration is possible and necessary. No costs have yet been incurred as the integration of these systems has not yet been achieved. In accordance with the coalition agreement, preference should be given to the use of communication channels that can reach a maximum number of citizens in an easy, economic and electronic way. From the number of Tax-on-web users who choose Zoomit, we can already conclude that the range of this application is quite successful. Of course, we prefer our portal MyMinfin, which will certainly have an evolution in terms of service and accessibility in the coming months. This does not prevent my department from being prepared to participate in all initiatives that promote the widest possible accessibility for citizens. My interpretation in this respect is quite simply that of the government agreement, which stipulates that communication between taxpayers and tax administration should be digitised as much as possible, or at least further.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic276x.u89	Thank you, Minister, for your open attitude, which I very much appreciate. You are open to cooperation with other partners in order to serve the same purpose, in particular to offer the information as user-friendly as possible to as many people as possible. That is something other than an administration that is locked up and building a special application of its own, so that citizens have to learn that application again, just for communication with that one service. I believe that you are making the right choice, and I regret Mr Robben's communication on this matter. As far as the MyMinfin portal is concerned, this is an application of its own, but it is a file manager. That's a logical thing to do. It is good that further investment is being made to increase user-friendliness. This will improve once Minister De Croo makes work of accessing the government via smartphone and so on, rather than via the e-ID card reader, which some people find difficult to get to work. I am very pleased that you are open to using the synergies of the market and that a maximum number of citizens can be achieved through a user-friendly application.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic276x.u90	That oath already exists in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic276x.u91	You are right to quote that, Mr President. In the Netherlands the oath was indeed introduced. We too have such a thing as the formal guarantees of expertise and independence, the so-called fit-and-clean policy, which is monitored by the National Bank. A number of further steps are being taken in the Netherlands. Since this year, employees in the financial sector have been obliged to take a banker's oath, in which they, among other things, promise to put the interests of the customer and society first, a little by analogy with the Hippocrates oath for doctors. Some journalists describe it as the oath of hypocrites, but I will not go into that myself. I'll leave that on the author's behalf. If the oath is broken, a disciplinary committee can impose sanctions in order to prevent it from remaining woolly. It is therefore a declaration of intent with binding elements. Not only does it have to improve the image of the banking sector for the outside world, but it also has concrete consequences. In the Netherlands, the code of conduct, which had to be signed by the banking sector as a whole, is linked to disciplinary law issued by disciplinary courts. The oath was extended there. The oath not only means a stick behind the door, it is not just about disciplinary aspects, one can also sell the oath as a sort of distinction. It is also a question of the professional, who is being brought back to people who have been struggling in recent years, not so much by their own actions as bankers, but rather by decisions that have been taken in recent years. I would like to support the above with a quote by Jos Clijsters, the then CEO of Belfius, of August 8th in De Tijd: "Both the FSMA and the National Bank now provide much stricter and better supervision, but I fear bankers will soon forget. I hope everyone remembers the lessons of the past." That's what such an oath can do. Minister, to what extent do you see a banker's oath as an instrument for restoring confidence in the banking sector? What concerns and/or comments do you have at the banker's oath as introduced in the Netherlands? A banker's oath is a case, a whistleblower's law another. To what extent are you considering introducing such a law for the banking sector with maximum guarantees of immunity and anonymity for whistleblowers? How do you feel about this? Finally, it is also suggested in the Netherlands that the banker's oath should be introduced into the rest of Europe. What position will you take on this matter at the European Forum? To what extent was the oath already discussed in the Eurogroup?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic276x.u92	Mr Dedecker, the banker's oath is part of the so-called fit-and-clean policy of the financial sector. The assessment of the so-called fit-and-proper nature of directors of banks and insurance companies is, of course, part of the prudential supervision exercised by the National Bank in the banking and insurance sector. The National Bank should check with executive and non-executive directors whether they have the necessary professional reliability, expertise and appropriate experience. In 2013, the National Bank prepared a detailed fit-and-proper circular with the way in which the National Bank, as a supervisor, interprets the statutory fit-and-proper obligations of financial institutions, in relation to persons taking on specific functions. The circular also clarified how the assessment of the expertise and professional reliability of those persons is carried out. Together with the fit-and-proper provisions in the so-called new Banking Act of 25 April 2014 and in the existing and in preparation insurance control law, the Circular provides a strengthened Belgian framework on the screening of fitness of persons who have to participate at the highest level in the financial sector. For the sake of completeness, I would like to point out that all Belgian banks identified as important in this respect are subject to direct supervision by the European Central Bank. The National Bank is monitoring developments in our neighbouring countries, including the Netherlands. The oath to which you refer is independent of a whole range of other, more substantive changes to the fit-and-clean policy of De Nederlandsche Bank and the Financial Markets Authority. Those institutions, for example, introduced their policy rule "Expertise' in 2011, with a strong emphasis on the skills and management skills that the so-called policy makers should have. The strengthening of the content of the policy in the Netherlands on the assessment of the fit-and-proper character is relevant to the National Bank, rather than the swearing-in in itself. For the sake of completeness, the forms used by the NBB in the so-called fit-and-clean screening can also be mentioned. At the end of the forms, the person and institution concerned must expressly declare that the information they provide is correct and complete. That's an important response from the supervisor. Moreover, the circular itself expressly emphasises that a lack of information or incorrectness results in a negative assessment. In fact, such an oath exists with us for a long time. The new Banking Act, which I have already referred to, contains many tools for the supervisor. This will also be the case with the new insurance control law in preparation. The National Bank's fit-and-proper circular also contributes to a considerable degree to the resilience of the sector and within it. The question arises as to whether we need additional instruments. Both instruments should also fit in with the supervisory model of each country and the European Central Bank. The Netherlands Bank has specific experience in this field and has already pioneered supervision of behavior and culture in the financial sector. The banker's oath enlists in that perspective. In the context of the common supervision, the ECB is currently examining whether the Dutch approach to behaviour and culture can be extended across the euro area. In this context, a new task force was set up under the chairmanship of the Netherlands Bank, in which the National Bank actively cooperates. In this context, the Belgian authorities will assess whether adjustments to the existing supervisory instruments are necessary and desirable.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic276x.u93	It is true, Minister, that supervision has certainly been strengthened. The fit-and-clean policy has certainly been strengthened, but this is particularly true for top-level players. First of all, one has to look at this, but the banker's oath is an addition to the story, especially in the minds, to bring about a mentality shift in the wider ranks of the banks, outside the strict rules, which are also necessary. In this way, there can be another kind of professional among the people. So it's not just a matter of strictly sticking to the rules. Rules are one thing, but one's own behavior and looking at the rules follow rules because they are rules or because one likes them are two different things, hence Dutch policy. It is, of course, quite a punishment, as you have already said, that the ECB is currently investigating the Dutch approach as an example for the euro area. That is a very clear signal. I look forward very much to the conclusion of that investigation. There are other interesting things to look at, for example in the Netherlands they also advocate a kind of reflection room at financial institutions. That is indeed part of the culture in the Netherlands, as you have just discussed in detail. They are interesting examples to learn lessons from. I look forward to further steps on the matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic276x.u94	Ladies and gentlemen, we are in time difficulties, I promised the Minister that we would stop at 13:00, it is 13:07 and there are six questions on the agenda. I apologise to those who have been waiting here for a long time, but we would be happy to ask them questions, because we would still need half an hour to finish the agenda, and that is not possible given the timing set at 13:00. So next time we will raise these questions. You can, of course, also ask them in connection with the budget debate. Mr Dispa, you have a number of questions relating to the budget. Mr Dispa's questions (Nos. 7593, 7622 and 7594) are transformed into written questions. The same applies to Question No 7549 by Mrs Wouters and Questions No 7556 by Mr Calomne and No 7586 by Mr Vanden Burre. Debates of the European Parliament Question No 75, by Mr Dedecker: 7542 by Mr Gilkinet.
