ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic140x.u1	Mrs Cassart withdrew her question No 3527.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic140x.u2	Mr President, Secretary of State, when you are a minister of a country, it is not easy to face an enterprise of international scale. However, this is the situation in which you found yourself last February, when you met with Facebook representatives, at their request. Facebook is the subject of legal action by our Committee on the Protection of Privacy but also by the "Privacy" Commissions of the various European countries. You chose to meet them while they were illegal because they had not yet responded to the Privacy Commission's letter. Why this method of work? Does this not short-circuit our Privacy Commission? Does this not put her in a more difficult position in relation to these large groups which are far too easily refusing the important competences of these private life commissions? You said in the press that the Facebook problem was primarily a communication problem, even misunderstandings. What are these misunderstandings? Is this really a communication problem? Do you have the firm belief that Facebook is complying with the obligations for which the Privacy Commission is at trial? Do you consider the management of personal data by Facebook to be problematic, particularly in the face of the provisions relating to direct marketing of the law on the protection of personal data? Do you think that Facebook's general terms and conditions are in accordance with the law?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic140x.u3	Mrs Onkelinx, I will refer to my detailed response to my interview with Facebook, which was given to this committee on February 25 of this year. I would like to reiterate that this conversation took place at the request of Facebook itself. It was a constructive conversation, in which I had the opportunity to share with them my main concerns, in particular:- the lack of clarity on the purposes of data processing and the third parties with whom the data are shared; - the practice that photos and videos of users could be used by Facebook for commercial or non-commercial activities; - lack of informed consent for these different data processing. Facebook acknowledged that some misunderstandings were rooted in their new conditions of use, admitting that they needed to be clarified. According to them, these new conditions do not bring about profound changes and Facebook has categorically denied that user data can be transmitted to third parties for advertising purposes. Thus, according to Facebook, it is an "absolute misunderstood". Only the profile photo would be used. I'm going to check that this is the case. Facebook offered to send us clarifications on these points. During our interview, Facebook representatives were very aware of the particular attention to be paid to the most vulnerable users, such as young people. They were willing to work together to plan measures to better inform this fraction of users. All this does not prevent the Privacy Commission from fully taking up its role as auditor and carrying out a thorough analysis of the legality of some of Facebook's user conditions on my request. Facebook needs to come back to us with more detailed information that, according to them, will confirm their comments and in particular with proposals to improve their communication and transparency towards users. In my reply to this committee on 25 February, I also noted that WhatsApp and Instagram services are also part of the discussion, which is also Facebook's subsidiary companies. On the other hand, Snapchat has not come to us. In addition, following my request for information, the Commission for the Protection of Privacy has informed me that it is not competent to carry out an investigation because the company has no headquarters or infrastructure in Belgium. That's a problem. To the Commission's knowledge, Snapchat would have nowhere in Europe. I think I have answered your questions. Are there any other questions?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic140x.u4	Minister, you tell me you've listened... that they're going to complete... that they recognize certain mistakes. In a way, you tell us that you have not fallen under the charm of Facebook, that you do not take for cash everything they tell you and that you will see according to the new information they will pass on to you. At the same time, all the work of the Privacy Commission continues. Good, we'll be paying attention because this is not the first time you've said that. It is not so much the fact that they could transmit personal data, which would be particularly reprehensible, but it is also that they could use them themselves in return for a fee by a commercial third party, without the consent of the user. It is above all this aspect which represents a grey area. You know that the forums of newspaper websites are increasingly working with websites like Facebook. As a result, Facebook still has more information on opinions, on profiles that could be used dangerously.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic140x.u5	Just so we're clear, the Privacy Commission has to play its part. In fact, she asked me not to make any new statements about this now, because clear agreements have been made with Germany and the Netherlands regarding the listing of the problems with Facebook, not only where there are grey zones, but also for the clear black zones. I have said very clearly and formally: whether it is Facebook or another company, we have to abide by the privacy rules. I will not give up on that. I have asked the Privacy Commission, together with Germany and the Netherlands, to negotiate with Facebook to bring itself into line with the law. Collaboration may have more effect. If Facebook does not comply with Belgian legislation or the European directive of 1995, pending the new regulation, we will take legal action if necessary. For the rest, I am abstaining from making any serious statements. I've said this before. I think the Privacy Commission should play its part. After all, she is the guardian of privacy law in our country. Together with you, I am responsible for making the laws. Then it is up to the Privacy Commission and the court to enforce the laws.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic140x.u6	Mr President, Secretary of State, Mr Deseyn has just referred to the overlap between the European privacy story and other pieces of legislation, such as the telecoms law. The European Directive No. 2006/24 in relation to data retention has generated a strong debate on the scope of privacy protection in recent years. We too, during the previous legislature, had this directive transposed with a great deal of delay and, of course, a great deal of debate. At that time, the directive was already at odds. In April 2014, she was finally destroyed by the European Court of Justice for reasons of proportionality. As I said, we had already transposed it into Belgian law in July 2013. Following the destruction of the Directive, the national retention obligation was still maintained in Belgian law, pending a new European data retention directive. On 12 March, the European Commissioner for the Interior, Mr Dimitris Avramopoulos, announced that the European Commission would not take a new legislative initiative. There will therefore be no new data retention directive, which we should not transpose into Belgian law. The European Member States are thus free to develop a national policy, which will allow us to see what we will do to review a number of controversial and far-reaching retention obligations and, above all, a number of far-reaching access obligations. The latter go quite far in Belgium today. Mr Minister, are you prepared to review the data retention obligation by the telecom operators? In your policy paper, you write about privacy security as a starting point for your policy. How will you apply this to the removal of the European retention obligation? What are your policy objectives with the retention obligation? Do you want to reduce these to strengthen the protection of privacy and reduce the administrative burden on telecom operators? Or do you have other objectives? In particular, I would like to ask what you think about access to that data. With us, not only the police and the police have access to these data in the context of an investigation, but also the security of the State and other services have easy access to them, i.e. without strong formal procedure. Hence my concern and my questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic140x.u7	Mr Dedecker, as you know, the data retention directive dates from the previous legislature. I assume that my predecessors have checked whether there was sufficient protection of fundamental rights and privacy in this area. There are currently two actions for the destruction of this law before the Constitutional Court. Last time, I said that I will not take any initiative to amend a law that is currently the subject of proceedings before the Constitutional Court. In the first instance, I await the judgment of the Constitutional Court. This can be very useful, because I can carry out a thorough analysis and review of the law on the basis of the judgment. This has also happened in certain neighbouring countries. If the judgment makes it very clear that we must destroy the law, then so will we. If the judgment contains a number of proposals for changing parameters, we must also look at them. In any case, I believe that measures that have a serious impact on fundamental rights and the right to privacy should be more strictly assessed against the requirements of necessity and proportionality that I have just announced. I would also point out that Minister De Croo, responsible for Telecommunications, is the pilot in this matter, as it concerns the application of the law on electronic communications. As with many other laws, I also give my opinion on this and will cooperate in any revision or repeal of the law. As far as data retention for criminal investigations is concerned, I must refer to the Minister of Justice None, who is responsible for the matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic140x.u8	Mr Secretary of State, your colleague De Croo is indeed a pilot on the telecoms law, but you are obviously very closely involved.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic140x.u9	I'm a copilot.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic140x.u10	Copilot, that could sound dangerous indeed. The privacy, your jurisdiction, is important to almost every minister, in almost every law. It's a transversal jurisdiction. As far as privacy is concerned, I think you are one of the first contact points. I am pleased that you want to check the law more strictly with regard to necessity and proportionality. The judgment can indeed provide input. However, there are also possibilities proactively. For example, the telecoms law was amended to strengthen the autonomy of BIPT in order to avoid a conviction by the European Court of Justice. I don't know what's the best option here. The destruction of the data retention directive by the European Court of Justice was, in my view, already a very clear signal that the directive was not such a good idea. We have transposed the directive in a more far-reaching way; we are going beyond the provisions of the directive. In fact, we are now waiting for the negative comments of the Constitutional Court. I do not think it is a good idea to wait for the negative comment; it would be better to act proactively in this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic140x.u11	Mr Geerts, Mrs Cassart-Mailleux and Mrs Becq were absent.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic140x.u12	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, the legal scope of "undouble consent" is different from the "explicit consent" that can be given to processing data. The question is why one should go to a lower level. There was also comment that other proposals from Belgium would be privacy unfriendly. Some speak of 23 privacy unfriendly amendments. Another part of the question concerns the technical note promised by the Privacy Commission. I think you are also using it as an input for the privacy conversations in Belgium and at European level. Can we get an insight into the Belgian text proposals, as we have just discussed? Why do we have to switch back a level? Is that for certain companies or for e-government? If we know, we might be able to defend it. Now, perhaps unjustly, a certain perception has arisen. What legal changes has the Privacy Commission proposed to you? The note on this matter was promised to us, but we have not yet received it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic140x.u13	Mr President, allow me to go further on what we have just discussed. I have some reservations about the findings of the so-called LobbyPlag website. The documents which have been studied and the ranking that has been drawn up give a very partial picture of the reality of the negotiations. I have just said that we are one of the most active countries in the technical working group. We often form the basis of compromise proposals. All I can say is that tall trees catch a lot of wind. If we had kept our mouths shut and not intervened on anything, we would have been at the top of the most privacy-friendly countries in Europe. Not all proposals are presented in the official documents either. That is the case in the European Parliament. We are working there on the basis of amendments which must be tabled at a certain time. It seems that we in the Belgian Parliament still have the habit of tabling amendments at the sitting. According to my information, this would be done in a different way in the other assemblers. This is not always on the basis of amendments, but the discussions of the technical working groups are gradually being adjusted. We certainly do not want to undermine citizens' rights. Not at all, otherwise there would be no separate Secretary of State for Privacy, but if we want to achieve better consumer protection, we must have this European regulation very urgently, if only because of the digital world, where we cannot control all this. When we formulate a Belgian position, I negotiate and discuss it with other Cabinets and with the administration, so that everyone can give their opinion on it, when it comes to their competence. However, we cannot separate privacy from the economic and social world. Privacy is never on its own. I do not think that privacy can be compromised, but one can balance between the importance of privacy and the common interest. Privacy always relates to other challenges. For example, there must always be a balance between privacy and security. A balance must also be struck between innovation, technological innovation and privacy. I know I have to do that exercise. That's why I sometimes feel like a string dancer when it comes to privacy, although I don't have it physically. A rugby game would be more appropriate for me, but in this case I have to play ballet dancer. It is also important that we should be able to allow our Belgian data systems to function in a good way in order to achieve an efficient and customer-oriented government. The essence of your question is about the "explicite' or "explicite' consent. The current directive and the Belgian law transposing the directive now provide for unambiguous consent. I don't see any problem with that today. Nor am I convinced that a replacement by the term "explicit consent" will in practice provide more protection. For an outsider it is not always clear what the difference is between unambiguous and explicit. When one has to give explicit consent to everything, the question arises as to whether this remains workable. It's the same story about the cookies. People get a pop-up asking to accept cookies. I only note that in practice, because of ease of use, people are clicking on "acceptance' to continue surfing. These are small formalities which are very quickly bypassed and touch upon the essence. You're asking me about my interventions. I've intervened twice at a council. The first time I said that there was a need to make a clear distinction between the protection of judicial and police data, on the one hand, and other personal data, on the other. In my view, these two matters need to be clearly defined. The second time I expressed my strong doubts about Article 6 (4), which gives rise to ambiguous interpretations, which only increases legal uncertainty. I asked for the paragraph to be revised and clarified when discussing Chapter 3 on the rights of data subjects. This seems to me to be the most important issue in the next phase, in June. The Belgian position has been negotiated with all stakeholders. You know that I have established a privacy platform, in which I have asked a number of consumer organisations, human rights organisations and industry organisations from the business world to come together to exchange views and to strike a balance between privacy in our country. I know that there is a doubt as to whether companies can point out the problems they may have when certain privacy rules are too strict. I have my opinion on that. I believe that a number of improvements can be made to company policy. I also believe, for example, that in the standard settings of a sold item or licence, privacy protection should be optimal; we should not reverse that. In other words, a consumer or user should not modify its settings to improve privacy. In the delivered product, with the licence delivered or when accessing a particular website, the strictest possible privacy setting must be set up and the consumer must take the initiative to reduce those privacy settings. I do not think that the opposite can be done, where one gets a product and one has to make sure that the privacy settings are tightened. That is twice a different approach, but with a different starting point.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic140x.u14	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, I have two points of reply. Whether explicit or unambiguous, such consent should not be conditioned by ease of use. When it comes to the protection of fundamental rights, it must not be left to choice or ease of use. This is an important approach to further discussions. If one says in principle that it is not possible, one should also not want to force permission by creating frustration with a user of a website. Secondly, you spoke about the regulation and its design, including the distinction of personal data from judicial and police data. Mr Secretary of State, the directive is also very important for this. We have not yet discussed this directive, Mr President. We have discussed the regulation in particular, but I hope that we will have a good debate on it in this committee. Mrs Onkelinx also supported that question. The directive and the regulation are in one package. They were also proposed as a package together in the European Parliament, in April 2014, and in the Commission, in 2012. I hope that we will be able to discuss this again on the substance of the matter one afternoon.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic140x.u15	Question No 3185 by Mrs Kattrin Jadin is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic140x.u16	Mr Minister, since the previous legislature, the implementation of short sentences has been re-established, i.e. penalties of less than three years, for which the equivalent electronic monitoring is also often used, in part or mainly. A new system has also been introduced for this purpose, namely electronic monitoring with voice recognition. This has been introduced for sentences of six to eight months. This was also intended to be applied later for penalties of four to six months. Minister, what is the state of play of the electronic monitoring system that works with speech recognition? Is it an efficient system or are there significant start-up problems? Has the planned enlargement been completed? How many files use electronic surveillance with voice recognition?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic140x.u17	Mrs Van Cauter, as you know, the powers for implementing electronic surveillance have been transferred to the Communities and the Regions since 1 January. For the current state of affairs, I would like to refer you to the relevant ministers of the Länder. As for your second question, the Minister of Justice was still responsible for implementation and organisation until 2014. I can tell you that the home detention was introduced in 2012. That is electronic supervision without the assistance of a judicial assistant, for persons with a total sentence of eight months to be carried out or a maximum of two months to be served. In 2013, the home detention was extended to a sentence total of six to eight months. In 2014, the home detention was extended to a total of four to six months. This is dealt with in the Ministerial Letter No. 816. This letter of 10 January 2014 entered into force on 1 February 2014.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic140x.u18	Minister, I fully understand your answer. I do wonder whether there will be no consultation between the Länder and the Minister of Justice. I see you nodding. I'll translate that immediately. I do not think it is possible for you to allow yourself to be committed and for you to have no knowledge of the state of affairs. You may not have to answer that, but it seems to me appropriate that we should know what is happening with our regulations on the ground.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic140x.u19	I'm not gonna answer that. There has already been an interministerial committee on the justice houses, but I cannot provide the right statistical data at the moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic140x.u20	Minister, I am asking you a question that is of great interest to me. This is the recognition of the Belgian Buddhist Union (UBB), an issue on which I worked a lot when I had your ministerial competence. It is therefore a recognition – since this point had given rise in itself to a real debate – as a non-denominational philosophy. We had studied all five criteria that must be met by all those who wish to be recognized under article 181 of the Constitution. These five criteria are: a quantitative criterion: the number of faithful; a criterion of representativeness: a representative body that can represent worship in its relations with civil authority; an old presence in the country; having social utility and not constituting a danger to public order. After extensive work with the UBB and the Parliament, the Parliament passed the law of 24 July 2008 according to which an annual subsidy is granted to the UBB to structure Buddhism with a view to its recognition, thus recognizing that Buddhism met all the criteria. Since then, numerous meetings have been held between the UBB representatives and the Department of Cults and Laity of the FPS Justice. I think the file was forwarded with the answers to all the questions. In qualitative terms, Buddhism is a non-denominational philosophy with 100,000 faithful, if we can say so. The social utility is evident since this philosophy advocates altruism, tolerance and non-violence that our country, like others, obviously needs. The work of Buddhists in assisting the dying, prisoners and persons in distress is well known. Buddhism is therefore not a danger to public order, on the contrary, I think that it can really participate in our living together. The UBB has been working with the Justice FPS since 2008. We asked successive ministers the question. Each time, we were told, "We're working on it." My question is simple, since we were told the last time there were a few small details left. What is the status of the recognition of Buddhism? Do you think it can be operational in the short term?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic140x.u21	Dear colleague, a meeting was held in my cabinet on 19 January 2015 in the presence of Mr Carlo Luyckx, President of the Belgian Buddhist Union, Mr Koen Vermeulen, the Secretary-General and my administration of the Cults and Laicity. As you have just indicated, the Law of 24 July 2008 on various provisions provides in Article 139 that a subsidy is granted to the non-profit association "Union Bouddhique Belge" with a view to structuring Buddhism in Belgium, the modalities of which relating to operating and personnel costs are laid down by the King. Amounts required to deal with them are included annually in the FPS Justice budget. This article is above all a preparatory step. He tries to operate the structure of Buddhism by granting the UBB a specific subsidy. A second legislative stage will therefore be necessary to enshrine the definitive structure of Buddhism in our territory. Since 2008, discussions have taken place and various texts have been exchanged between the Belgian Buddhist Union and the administration in order to establish, at the territorial level, a structure conducive to the exercise of moral assistance according to a Buddhist conception. The Belgian Buddhist Union has chosen to base its recognition on Article 181, § 2, which recognizes philosophical organizations that offer moral assistance according to a non-denominational philosophical conception. A dossier currently under consideration in the form of a preliminary draft law takes up the objectives of the Belgian Buddhist Union, provides for the creation of a general secretariat, with a functioning subside which defines the treatment of Buddhist advisers. In conclusion, I note that the request for recognition of Buddhism in Belgium dates back to 20 March 2006 and that, after almost ten years, it is updated by my services to grant definitive recognition. A draft bill should soon be submitted to me to that effect.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic140x.u22	Of course, I believe in the minister's good faith. That's what we're told every time, "It's on the right track." There are only a few small points left to finish. So I'd like to come back in three months to see if the little details have been settled.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic140x.u23	Minister, the judicial landscape has recently undergone profound changes. Judicial districts now have provincial territories as a sphere of jurisdiction when it comes to courts of first instance. As a result of these consolidations, concerns have emerged about the future of the courts. Reassuring responses to this seem to have been made: the current seats of the former courts of first instance would remain the place where the cases would be dealt with. What about the places of hearing of the justices of peace? There is an insistent rumour that it would be intended to abolish seats of justice for peace in order to bring them together in a cost-effective manner. I would like to draw your attention to what seems to me to be an essential objective to be pursued in the field of justice, namely its accessibility and hence its proximity to the citizen. This is particularly true for justices of peace. Moreover, the name is indicative of the nature of the justice service that must be rendered. Minister, many cases handled by justices of the peace are handled by the citizens themselves, without the assistance of a lawyer. Citizens go to the justice offices to file an application and the judge summons the parties, who come before him to explain themselves for neighbourhood disputes, servitude problems, game damage, rental disputes, etc. I also stress the importance of conciliation appeals at this level of jurisdiction. All of this requires that the accused be able to have easy access to his justice of the peace. It seems to me that it would be totally inappropriate to remove the citizen from his judge, which would necessarily be the case if seats of justice for the peace were abolished. As the mayor of a small rural commune, I very often encounter people facing problems to be solved before a justice of the peace. They come to me as a local authority, without knowing who to refer to, and show a great deal of concern when they learn that I am not competent to help them and that they must address other bodies. It is a real relief for them to know that such a service is in their village or in the neighbouring village. I believe that the quality of life in this environment must be preserved and that it is essential to maintain the peacemaking role assigned to the justice of the peace. In Luxembourg, you are aware that distances are particularly large and that the supply of public transport is unsatisfactory. What are the current plans for the consolidation of justices of peace in the judicial districts of the province of Luxembourg? Can you establish an inventory of justice buildings in the same province? Can you give us the number and distribution of justices of the peace in this territory and let us know which cantons would be grouped and therefore who would be deprived of a justice of the peace?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic140x.u24	Mr President, Mrs Poncelet, our country has 350 judicial buildings, small or large, including prisons (34). In this regard, I would like to refer to my Justice Plan, section 4.1.4.3. Masterplan – Judicial buildings, in which I specify that the many judicial buildings should be subject to a thorough rationalization exercise which should eventually lead to a significant decrease in the number of courtrooms and a more centralized management of the buildings. The Justice Plan also indicates, under point 4.2.1.3. Reorganisation of the judicial cantons, the number of justices of the peace and their headquarters is very high and in this regard also an exercise must be launched, as the government agreement provides for. This Masterplan must be ready by the end of the year. This exercise is not an easy task and will have to take into account many factors and actors, including distance, as you have just mentioned in relation to the province of Luxembourg. We will now proceed to this task. So you understand that it is too early to answer more detailed questions. I will come back to you as soon as we can be more concrete.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic140x.u25	Mr Minister, if I understand correctly, we will have to meet again in this committee. I will not miss the appointments and hope to have clear, precise and not too worrying answers for our province. It is very important for the population to be able to benefit from this community service.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic140x.u26	Mr President, Minister, it is my responsibility to this day that the magistrates record in their PV the names of the police officers who were forced to kill or injure a person during an intervention. In the event that a person is injured or killed during a police intervention and that the defence, including the family of the injured or killed, has access to the file and is thus able to discover the names of the police officers responsible, there may be cases of threat. This situation, I am told, makes many police officers uncomfortable. Would it not be possible for the magistrates to note instead the names, the number numbers of the police officers in question?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic140x.u27	Mrs Jadin, your question is part of one of my concerns. The Act of 8 April 2002 on the anonymity of witnesses guarantees partial or total anonymity. It also provides for investigators to mention, in their testimony before the investigating judge in court, only their professional residence and not their private address, in order to limit the risk of reprisals. These are new sections 75ter and 155ter of the Code of Criminal Investigation. On the other hand, the Act does not contain any specific provision guaranteeing the anonymity of a police officer who is subject to a civil suit or a complaint. This problem had been ruled out at the time as theoretical and hypothetical, but the practice has recently shown the opposite, particularly in cases of abuse as a result of civil party constitutions. In other words, the anonymity of agents, in particular members of the intervention teams, but also of other units or even magistrates responsible for certain forms of serious and organised crime, cannot be guaranteed in all circumstances when this proves necessary. The discussion has been under way for several years and this issue has already been raised on several occasions in the College of Attorneys General, which has set up a working group within the Network of Expertise Criminal Procedure, a group in which the Federal Police is involved. Consideration will be given to the recommendations that will be made in writing the bill that I intend to introduce in Parliament in the near future. The Law of 5 August 1992 on the Police Function also provides, in its article 41 as amended by the Law of 4 April 2014, that minutes may not mention the name of the police officer but only his intervention number. This is an exceptional situation. These provisions would enter into force only on the date to be determined by the King. It provides that the chiefs of corps and/or the head of service shall determine the circumstances in which the police officer may replace his nameplate with an intervention number. This intervention number consists of a maximum of 4 digits preceded by a code designating the police zone or the federal police service. It is affixed to the armband worn by plainclothes police officers and allows the identification of the police officer via the head of the corps or the head of the service. The responsible authority which authorizes anonymity shall take its decision in the light of the circumstances of the intervention when they render the identification of the police officers dangerous. This is therefore an inconclusive assessment. In this context, a distinction should be made between special police units and investigators working on certain forms of crime. As I have already pointed out, a working group, including magistrates and police officers, is examining the whole issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic140x.u28	I thank you, Minister. This is a situation that I have been told about and you have rightly said, there are abuses that have taken place. I appreciate that this issue is taken very seriously and that we want to legislate on it. To the extent of my abilities and opportunities, I will give my full support to your projects.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic140x.u29	Mr President, Minister, the Public Prosecutor's Office through its public prosecutors issues circulars to the police, thus exercising some kind of legislative power over our law enforcement agencies. It is my responsibility that the officers of the Internal FPS complain a great deal about these circulars which carry out transfers of tasks from justice to our police officers, whose tasks are already important. Is it true, Minister, that for the past two years there has been an increase in the circulars issued by the Attorneys General to the Internal FPS? According to your information, do these circulars sometimes cause problems for the police?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic140x.u30	Mr President, Mrs Jadin, as you know, we must distinguish the joint circulars of the Minister of Justice and the College of Attorneys General to the courts of appeal by which the Minister of Justice adopts the criminal policy directives after having taken the opinion of this College on the establishment of Article 143quater of the Judicial Code and, on the other hand, the circulars of the College of Attorneys General in the strict sense aimed at the coherent implementation and coordination of the criminal policy determined by these directives on the basis of Article 143bis, § 2, 1 of the Code. Some circulars refer more specifically to police services in that they are aimed at working processes between police and prosecutors. As far as your first question is concerned, there are no specific statistics that would allow us to know whether, for the past two years, the circulars of the prosecutors general to the internal FPS are on the increase. As far as your second question is concerned, I am not aware of any specific problems encountered by a police force with regard to circulars that transfer tasks from justice to our police officers, whose tasks are already important. In order to avoid difficulties and improve the efficiency of the fight against crime, there are regular consultations at several levels. There is, for example, a Federal Police Council. The local police and the federal police are represented in the Police Expertise Network of the College of Attorneys General. Since this year, there has been an official platform for consultation between the integrated police and the judicial authorities, called JustiPol, the first formal meeting of which was held on 18 March 2015. At the level of judicial districts, police-justice consultations take place in particular at the level of borough research consultations which take place approximately once a month. They consist mainly of the King's Prosecutors, the Chiefs of Police Areas, the Judicial Directors and Coordinators of the Federal Police. Finally, the zonal security councils set up in each police area bring together the chiefs of corps, the relevant mayor(s) and the King's prosecutor(s). It is therefore possible, if not probable, that any of the problems mentioned in the question have already been discussed within one of the structures referred to above.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic140x.u31	Mr President, Minister, I am the spokesperson of the judicial officers. Following the reform of the justice system as well as the entry into force of the new law on the bailiffs, it became apparent that the studies of the bailiffs present in the judicial district of Eupen are somewhat overwhelmed by work and demands. Indeed, following the amendment of the law on judicial officers, all bailiffs who still wanted to notify in the judicial district of Eupen had to pass the language examination in German. Of course, it's normal in itself. However, no bailiff from the other boroughs passed this examination. I would like to know if we can follow up on the request of the Order of Ushers. The capacity of bailiffs for the judicial district of Eupen should be increased with regard to these studies. I know this can only be done by royal decree. Had that not been the case, I would have tabled a bill on this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic140x.u32	Mr President, Mrs Jadin, following the reform of the judicial landscape and in execution of article 518 of the Judicial Code, the opinions were requested from the National Chamber of Judicial Officers, the Attorneys General and the Prosecutors of the King, dated 13 October 2014, relating to the number of judicial officers in the new judicial districts. None of the requested bodies has expressed the need to increase the number of judicial officers in the judicial district of Eupen. In addition, the Judicial Code provides in Article 516 that the judicial officers of the cantons of Limburg-Aubel, Malmedy-Spa-Stavelot, Verviers-Herve and Verviers may exercise their functions in the judicial district of Eupen if they provide proof of the knowledge of the German language. An implicit extension of the number of judicial officers in the judicial district of Eupen is therefore possible without having to go through the making of a royal decree. Given the organisation of the language examinations by my services, the legal possibilities provided for in the Judicial Code and the absence of a desire to increase the number of judicial officers in the judicial district of Eupen, it does not seem appropriate to take a royal decree establishing an extension of the framework for the judicial district of Eupen.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic140x.u33	Minister, thank you. For my understanding, it is quite possible to broaden the framework and therefore the number of judicial officers within the judicial district of Eupen without going through an amendment of the royal decree?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic140x.u34	I've been talking about an implicit frame extension.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic140x.u35	I will re-read your answer and, if necessary, I will re-examine you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic140x.u36	Mr. Chairman, Minister, professional secrecy is governed by section 458 of the Criminal Code and of privacy. I'm not going to fight you to read it to you. Only article 29 of the Code of Criminal Investigation runs contrary to article 458: "Any constituted authority, any public official or public officer, who, in the performance of his duties, acquires knowledge of a crime or an offence, shall be obliged to give immediate notice of it to the Crown Prosecutor next to the court in which the crime or offence was committed or in which the accused could be found, and to transmit to that magistrate all information, minutes and acts relating thereto". On the other hand, in the face of police arrests, the professional may request to be heard by a judge only - investigating judge or judge of a court. If he is summoned by a judge, he must go to the hearing and take an oath. Minister, in the specific case where police officers go to a CPAS and address a social worker in order to obtain information on the place of residence of a suspect who is a danger to society in the course of an investigation, the latter may, if she wishes, waive professional secrecy and request that the information requested be disclosed to a judge. In this specific case, when there is an urgent need and the suspect is at risk of leaving the territory or committing other wrongs, how long is it necessary for this procedure? Could it not be envisaged that judges could send an apostille to the police officers in charge of the investigation in the interests of speed? Finally, as detailed above, there is a slight legal uncertainty regarding professional secrecy, since the obligation of secrecy is in contradiction with the Code of Criminal Investigation, on the one hand, and the lifting of professional secrecy is left to the discretion of the social worker in some cases. In general, does this cause any problems?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic140x.u37	Mr Flahaux, your question is essentially about a very complex and delicate area. Like doctors, psychologists and legal assistants, social workers find themselves in a difficult situation with regard to professional secrecy: on the one hand, a relationship of trust with those they deal with constitutes a necessary condition for the performance of some of their duties; on the other hand, because an unjustified breach of professional secrecy exposes them to criminal and disciplinary sanctions. The principle of professional secrecy is of public policy and is not used in any way to protect professionals. Exceptions to this principle are not within the scope of their assessment, but are exclusively recognized by law and jurisprudence. Without this, the person who wishes to be helped and to entrust information will now decide not to surrender to anyone and will abstain. The arbitration between this principle and the necessary protection of vulnerable persons has led to the inclusion of article 458 bis in the Criminal Code. To paraphrase Montesquieu, I would say that the principle of professional secrecy should only be touched with trembling hands. You will understand that the College of Attorneys General cannot, within the very brief time limit, answer an oral question or provide a detailed answer as to the problem that the procedure would pose in order to untie, in the event of an emergency, a social worker from professional secrecy. An opinion from the relevant network of expertise could be sought, but it would take time for the time limit set by an oral question to be missed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic140x.u38	Mr Minister, thank you for your answer, which is right for me, and the reference to Montesquieu. Without forcing you to do so, I would like to ask for an audit – with all the time it takes, of course. My question relates to the CPAS of Braine-le-Comte, I would like to say so. I think it can be raised in the medium term.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic140x.u39	Mr President, Minister, I was able to discover your Justice Plan, in which I found good things. One of them particularly pleased me, that is the news concerning Masterplan III and what concerns the prison of Verviers. I have already had the opportunity to question you about the latter and to explain to you its importance for the judicial district of Eupen, but also the region of Verviers. Can you tell me more about this? Will Verviers find a prison with the same number of prisoners? I think that was what your predecessor had advocated. Are we going to a renovation or a new construction? As the building is unsanitary, I hope that this will be the last possibility.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic140x.u40	The prison in Verviers, Madame Jadin, has been closed for some time. A renovation is no longer on the agenda, as the destruction of the prison has been decided and is under way. The Verviers project is part of the exercise that is conducted with regard to the adaptation of the masterplan. I refer to the Justice Plan point IV.1.4.1 "Modernisation of prison infrastructure", where I specify that the existing masterplan will be adapted in order to submit, for approval, a Masterplan III adapted by the summer of 2015. Only then can the details of the possible projects under this plan be communicated. The Justice Plan already gives considerable impetus to the projects and principles that will be integrated, with due attention to differentiation, to the smaller and otherwise secure forms of detention, as well as to projects for internees.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic140x.u41	Minister, thank you. Excuse me for providing you with an imperfect question. As a reminder, the reform of the judicial landscape provided for one prison per judicial district. Eupen's, for example, has no prison on its territory. I do not think that the request is to have one as long as priority is given to the reconstruction of a prison on the site of the former prison in Verviers. This argument is therefore not uninteresting. On the other hand, the infrastructure of Liège devoted to internment is close to the overcrowding – Mr.President will not contradict me – and knows its limits in terms of extension.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic140x.u42	I won't contradict you!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic140x.u43	Minister, together with the division of the Brussels-Halle-Vilvoorde constituency, the then institutional majority in the previous legislature also reformed the judicial district of Brussels. A Dutch-speaking and French-speaking court of first instance was established at the split of the parquet. The Law of 19 July 2012 implementing this reform also provided for a provisional distribution of the establishment plan. The final distribution had to be made after a workload measurement. The result of that measurement was expressed in the Law of 6 January 2014. I was surprised when I was recently informed that seven Dutch-speaking clerks of the Dutch-speaking court of first instance were assigned by order of the first President of the Court of Appeal in Brussels to the French-speaking court of first instance, while the framework of that court would be full. Minister, I was going to ask you if this information was correct. However, this question dates back two weeks ago. We learned yesterday from the media that there was an effective warrant in that sense. In addition, a number of documents were sent to the Chambers' Committee for Justice, including the order of the first President of the Court of Appeal. In that order, the first President states that Article 64 of the Law on the division of the judicial arrondissement is not applicable, as there would no longer be a surplus of the framework. In the light of the conflicting opinion of the Chief Registrar of the Dutch Court of First Instance and of the President of that court, the first President also has the power to temporarily transfer those seven Dutch-speaking Registrars to the French-speaking Court. When I look further at the attached pieces, I actually read a negative advice from the head griffin. He explained in detail that the needs of the service were now very limited, and I am not going to allow him to give a positive opinion; on the contrary, he made a firm negative opinion. I should also like to point out that information has already been distributed to those seeking justice, and that the Registry will only be available by telephone in the morning and not during the legal hours. Nor are they accessible or accessible to access files, even when it comes to the regulation of justice and files for the council chamber. In the afternoon there is therefore no more accessibility. I do not have to tell you that this is not only not in line with the relevant legislation, but that it is also very annoying for the seeker. The needs of the service mean that the chief clerk formulates a negative opinion. In addition, there is a letter from the President of the Court of First Instance which does not actually express an opinion, but simply states that the special law abolishes the general provisions on which the President bases himself. So the chairman doesn't deliver an opinion. If we look at the article on which the President of the Court of Appeal bases himself in order to transfer staff, Article 328 states that if the needs of the service justify it, the first chairman may, on the advice of the Chief Registrar and, where appropriate, the chairman, taking into account a number of points, proceed to the secondment or transfer of staff. The requirement of service performance requirements is clearly not met and there is a negative opinion from the principal officer. I note that there is no opinion from the President of the Court of First Instance, but a legal requirement in so far as Article 328 would apply. When one reads the article in its entirety, it seems as if it is written here on the record of the chief clerk and the President of the Court of First Instance. In writing to us, and we are careful there, the legality of the order is placed in quotes, and in reading it seems to me to be something for that. Minister, is the information mentioned in the press correct? I assume so, given the existing warrant. Can anything be done about this? What will happen to the needs of the service, so that the Registrys can lodge an appeal, inspect the documents and the like in a legal manner during the hours laid down in the Code of Justice and that the necessary measures are taken to that end? What are the means to respond to this and can you do something about it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic140x.u44	Minister, I, like Mrs Van Cauter, took note of the decision of the first President of the Brussels Appeals Court two weeks ago. It states that five clerks and two staff of the Dutch-speaking court of Brussels will be deployed at the French-speaking court of first instance from 1 April. Today is April 1st, so it will come into effect today. It was in the press yesterday. We all know that the reform of the judicial district of Brussels has created a particularly precarious balance by dividing resources and staff between the dedoubled courts. A measurement of workload was even carried out, and we all know that these reforms have been difficult. You also know that we did not support it from the outset. That's why it's even more amazing that that warrant is being issued now. It may well be that the French-speaking framework is not being filled up, but we also know that there are also problems on the Dutch-speaking side with regard to the framework and the workload. Staff, clerks and staff are now transferred from the Dutch-speaking side to the French-speaking side. The consequences of this are disastrous. We have had to take note of the action plan already drawn up by the Registry and the Court. It clearly states that the Registry will only be open in the morning and will no longer be available by telephone in the afternoon. JustScan will only be applied to a limited extent. Halle-Vilvoorde's parquet will not have any additional sessions if it so requests. We did support that new Halle-Vilvoorde parquet. The positive aspects of the whole reform are thus reversed. That is particularly regrettable. We therefore take note of the documents sent to the Committee on Justice. I think we need to ask serious questions about the legality of this whole scheme. I will therefore be brief and not elaborate. I think the situation is well known. What will you do against this delegation of clerks from the Dutch-speaking court of first instance to the French-speaking court of first instance? Can you confirm that this situation is illegal? What will you do about it or what can be done about it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic140x.u45	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, you will forgive me for answering a little longer, given the length of your questions. Indeed, by decision of 13 March 2015, the first President of the Court of Appeal in Brussels delegated five Registrars and two staff of the Dutch-speaking Court of First Instance in Brussels to the Registry of the French-speaking Court of First Instance in Brussels, with effect from 1 April 2015. For the purpose of its decision, the first President shall rely on Article 328 (4) and (5) of the Code of Civil Procedure. This provision is based on the Law of 1 December 2013 reforming the District Courts and amending the Code of the Court with a view to increasing the mobility of the members of the Court of Justice, the provisions of which entered into force on 1 April 2014. The provisions in question provide, inter alia, that staff members of level A or B may be ordered to perform their duties in another Registry of the jurisdiction for a period of not more than one year, even without their permission, whereas assistants and assistants may also be ordered to perform their duties in another Registry of the Division, but also in another Registry of the Arrondissement of Brussels, Walloon Brabant or Leuven, for a renewable period of not more than one year. In this specific case, the seven delegated staff concerned have all expressed their express agreement with the delegation. However, Article 328 of the Civil Code provides that the contract is to be awarded in compliance with the law of 15 July 1935 on the use of languages. These delegated staff hold a certificate, which shows that they have passed the examination on active and passive oral knowledge and also on the active and passive written knowledge of French. Moreover, they have previously worked in the French language within the court of law, when the judicial district in Brussels knew only one court of first instance. The first President considers that Article 53 of the Law of 15 June 1935 on the use of languages in court cases does not provide that only French-speaking clerks may be appointed to the French-speaking courts. In conjunction with Article 1 of the Law of 15 June 1935, no Registrar may be appointed to the French-speaking Court of First Instance in Brussels if he does not provide proof of French knowledge. Under Paragraph 6 of the same Article, the knowledge of one of the three national languages is automatically derived from the language in which the applicant has obtained a certificate of education. The knowledge of the other language is provided by passing an exam organized by Selor dealing with active and passive oral knowledge and the active and passive written knowledge of that language. Once the in-depth knowledge has been proven, the candidate may be appointed to the Registry of a court whose language is the same as that for which he has successfully completed a full examination. According to the first President, the amendments made by the Law of 19 July 2012 did not affect the existing rules on the conditions of appointment set out in Article 53 (1) of the Language Act. In other words, the first President states that, having regard to Article 53 (1) of the Language Act, it was sufficient and still sufficient for a candidate of the French-speaking Court of First Instance in Brussels to have an in-depth knowledge of French to be appointed. This knowledge can be proved either by the submission of a diploma or a certificate showing that he has received French-language education or by the passing of the examination on the passive and active written and oral knowledge of French by Selor. If, by virtue of the law of 1 December 2013, the legislator subsequently grants to the first President of the Court of Appeal the power to delegate from one Registry to another, within its jurisdiction, subject to the law of 15 June 1935, from one Registry to another, the rules already applicable to the division, the first Chairman considers. The principle of the monolingualism of the courts of first instance, the courts of commerce and labour law banks of Brussels is not affected by the appointment of judicial staff who prove their full and thorough knowledge of the language of the court concerned, even though the staff member would have followed teaching in another language of the country. In the first President's interpretation, no legal provision would preclude a delegation of members of the court staff of the Dutch-speaking court of first instance in Brussels to the French-speaking court of first instance in Brussels where, as in the present case, those staff have a certificate of full and thorough knowledge, and therefore no purely functional knowledge, of the language of the court to which they are temporarily delegated. The French-speaking court has only 38 Registrars at present, on a frame of 125. It is therefore imperative, as the first President said, that he should delegate the staff of the understaffed Dutch-speaking court of first instance in Brussels to the much more understaffed French-speaking court. Article 399 of the Code of Justice provides that the Attorney General at the Court of Appeal, the Procurator of the King and the Labour Auditors shall ensure the regular exercise of the service and the implementation of the laws and regulations in the courts. In view of the contradictory views expressed by the first President of the Brussels Appeals Court and the President of the Dutch-speaking Court of First Instance in Brussels, I have asked the Attorney General for an opinion, since I do not wish to take any risk with regard to the regularity of proceedings before the courts. Of course, at the same time, I will do everything within my powers and possibilities to provide a viable solution as soon as possible to the shortage of staff at the French-speaking court of first instance, also at the Dutch-speaking court of first instance, in consultation with the College of the courts and courts.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic140x.u46	Minister, I have often heard you say 'the first President'. I also understand that you say that. There's a double problem. Firstly, does the special law allow the general provision of Article 328 to be applied, to which the first chairman refers, or is it the result of the existence of that special law and the special arrangement relating to the judicial arrondissement of Brussels-Halle-Vilvoorde of such a nature that the general Article 328 is not taken into account in this regard? Secondly, the text of Article 328 states that there are a number of requirements not to be appointed but to be able to post or temporarily appoint in another court. Among other things, there must be an opinion from the President of the Court of First Instance. There's no advice. The President of the Court of First Instance did not give an opinion because he considered that no opinion could be sought on this matter because of the special law applicable. In any event, following a first reading, I do not think that the preconditions for reaching that order are fulfilled, especially since the general ratio of the article is so constructed that the needs of the service and the declaration of those who make up the service are actually a condition for the first chairman to be able to issue a warrant. I understand you'd like to refer the matter to the Attorney General. So we will come back to it later. That is useful and necessary. However, I would like to ask you the question which you think you are asking, in the light of your answer. What happens if someone presents himself at the Registry during opening hours, as the law provides, to appeal and the door is closed? Is there any extension of the deadline? That is the situation we find ourselves in today when what has been publicly notified is implemented, and we were told how the service will be further organized. Is that legal? You must not answer that question now. I'm not asking for an answer right now. However, I assume that you are seriously assessing the problem in order to avoid the possibility of using legal remedies in good time.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic140x.u47	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I have often heard you say 'the first chairman'. I assume, therefore, that you will examine this issue seriously. You'd like to ask the Attorney General for advice. I think there are serious reasons for doubting the legality of this regulation. We can also read this in the President's letter, which states: "It cannot have been the intention of the legislator to order such a transfer on the basis of the general jurisdiction conferred on him by Article 328 of the Code of the Court of Justice if the exception cannot be applied." This letter also states that the decision was based on a distorted picture of the actual occupation of the Registry. I hope you will soon be able to clarify this matter. This seriously jeopardises the functioning of the Dutch-speaking court in Brussels. Who's the victim of that? The Dutch-speaking judge, who has to deal with many problems, such as longer deadlines and so on. I really don't think this is possible. I hope you'll do something about it soon. There is a great deal of concern.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic140x.u48	Question No 3310 by Mrs Kattrin Jadin is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic140x.u49	Mr President, Mr Justice, I come back to a subject on which I had asked Mrs Turtelboom, in writing, at the time, about the means dedicated to the fight against banking piracy. In the columns of the excellent French-language daily La Libre, of this 21 March, of which I know that you are an attentive reader - especially on the weekend - the investigating judge Michel Claise makes an alarming appeal regarding the problem of banking piracy, stating that, I quote: "There is a major risk that in the coming years a big blow will be made". In his view, this is a real danger when we know that the stolen sums are very difficult to recover when they are transferred very quickly to offshore structures. Justice Claise points to the shortage of staff at the Computer Crime Unit in order to effectively combat this form of crime. It refers to successful research but too long time-frames, as they are known in other areas of the fight against financial crime, for lack of sufficient staff. I would like to take stock with you of the scale of the phenomenon and the answers you intend to give to it, in the continuation of a written question that I quoted on 15 December 2011. Minister, can you tell me how many fraud files the Federal Computer Crime Unit has handled over the last five years? What are the figures for the results obtained? How many cases of bank piracy have been identified in those years? What amounts have been stolen? What sums have been recovered? What compensation have been awarded? If so, I would like that part of the answer in writing. How many people are currently working in the Computer Crime Unit on these files? What measures are you planning to take to address the shortage of staff? What other specific human and material means will be used to combat this new type of fraud? How does cooperation on this issue take place with other countries, particularly those from which computer scams originate? Are you considering legislative initiatives to combat bank cybercrime? Which ones? In what time frame?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic140x.u50	Dear colleague, the College of Attorneys General has reminded me that it cannot provide statistics on oral questions given the short response time. However, the police services were able to provide us with answers. First, the Federal Computer Crime Unit (FCCU) does not carry out a stand-alone file, except in the case of attacks on critical infrastructure. Online banking fraud files with malware or social engineering as attack vectors are, for the most part, managed by OECDFO and the support of the FCCU. The deconcentrated directorates of the Federal Judicial Police can also manage such cases with the support of the Regional Computer Crime Units (RCCU). However, there are no specific police figures for online banking frauds, but general figures for computer crime over the last five years - which you can read on the paper I have before me. For the number of cases of piracy identified, I refer to the figures of online banking cases provided by Febelfin on the same document. Fedelfin also publishes annually the loss due to online banking fraud. In addition to the OECDFO staff, two CFCU investigators specifically deal with these full-time and non-full-time files and receive support from colleagues. In addition, other members of the FCCU are collecting information on e-banking fraud at the national and international levels. The current number of CFCU staff is 39. An increase of the organic table to 44 people is expected. In addition, a RCCU is present in almost every former district. (...) for the police to hire people specialized in this field of computer crime who are highly sought after in the labour market. A budget under my department is devoted to the purchase of technical-legal ICT investigative equipment specific to the Computer Crime Units - federal and regional. The other budgets are the responsibility of my colleague from the Interior. FCCU collaborates with Europol's European Cybercrime Centre at Focal Point Cyborg, which replaces the former AWF Cyborg. Collaboration with author countries is carried out through Europol. Joint investigation teams or joint investigation teams bring together the victim countries. Investment is considerable but effective. A cybercrime working group, including members of the Public Prosecutor's Office as part of the College of Attorneys General's networks of expertise, does not fail to identify practical problems and to suggest legislative adjustments to the rapid evolution of technologies and modus operandi of criminals. Bills relating to computer-based crime will soon be submitted to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic140x.u51	Minister, thank you. You will admit that the answer is very general and quite little different from that given to me by the Minister of Justice who was before you. This response is a bit of a concern to me about the effective capacity to combat this new form of crime. When you say there's a staff of two people working full-time, or not, on the subject, I can only worry. I am also concerned about the ability of your services to provide conclusive statistics. This should not, of course, be their primary mission, but it is important as an indicator. Finally, with regard to the difficulty of finding qualified and willing people in the public service, I refer you to your colleagues in charge of the Public Service and Pensions. It is clear that the more the status of public service workers is degraded, the more difficult it is to find motivated and competent people. Many workers have the ethics of the public service, but if they are to be attracted to it, there must be respect and adequate social and wage conditions. If we want to save money, we come up with devices that are no longer effective, which I regret, whether they are banking or financial crime, of which you know they are of great concern to me.
