ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic090x.u1	Mr Minister, the new Belgian arms law and the RB of 21 May 2013 provide that everything related to artillery since 2012 should be demilitarised.............................................................................................................................................................................................................. It remains unclear how this should be done, especially in the sector itself. In mid-2014 empty obuses, grenades and casings were seized at a number of military fairs. It is generally known that in many families old grenade casings are used as umbrella boxes, empty igniters or press paper. Those things are also present with my own family and my in-laws. The question is, do these good families have illegal weapons in their possession or not? Especially in the Westhoek these kinds of objects are preserved as cherished relics. There is even such a thing as trench art, artfully worked casings made by the soldiers from the First World War to kill time. They are now being sold as artifacts. Are these items also subject to the ban of the new arms law? Militaria experts point out that the obuses, grenades and casings in question should be officially demilitarised by the Liège Trial Bank. I don't know if this is true, but you'll give me an answer. Is it intended that every family in possession of this kind of relics should go to Liège? Especially for the people of the Westhoek this is a whole pilgrimage. Can the Minister tell me, and the sector, how many robberies or murders have already been committed with an empty, undemilitarized, obus? That is why this kind of thing is being regulated. Can the Minister tell us what the cost of demilitarizing empty cannons, obuses, grenades or casings is? In short, can you tell us how the new arms law should be interpreted in this particular area so that the sector can be clear about this?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic090x.u2	Mr President, Mr Penris, my administration has been dealing for a long time with the problem that is the subject of your question. It will write an additional circular. Prior consultations were needed with other interested parties, in particular the police and DOVO. Not all the details have been arranged yet, but the elements that follow have already been acquired. Last year certain practical problems, linked to the commemorations of the First World War, were revealed: certain war museums were not yet in order administratively, some collectors of war souvenirs were not aware of the permitted status of the objects in their collection, the conditions under which they may participate in reconstructions of war events and with which weapons and, above all, the pending question of the presence of war munitions at military fairs and in private homes. Most of the problems were solved pragmatically. For both the latter the necessary contacts were made months ago with the other competent services: the Regions, the Federal Police, the Local Police, the Firearms Test Bank and the Dutch Administration. It was necessary to specify who would perform what tasks and how. After obtaining a formal agreement, the missing clarifications will be included in a supplementary circular which will be published in the Belgian Official Journal. So some of these problems are caused by the shells of recovered ammunition from World War I. They are very popular with some of the collectors but also with individuals. Often it is not easy to determine whether old ammunition pieces are harmless. The police refuse to take responsibility for this, and if the army's demining service, DOVO, is called in, then it is now customary for security reasons that they take all documents on which there is doubt for investigation. In the past, DOVO carried out part of that on-the-spot investigation so that the documents, the situation of which can be visually established on the spot, were not disposed of. The Proefbank formally refuses to do this research and to participate in the neutralization of old ammunition, because it lacks the expertise, because of the danger to staff and installations, and because it is not its official task. It is only in the field of firearms. There is a hope that an agreement with DOVO could be concluded whereby they would again carry out an on-the-spot check on the documents which are clearly harmless. It should be recalled that the only old military weapons, weapons and ammunition which may be offered at military fairs and which may be owned by individuals must be neutralized. For portable weapons, standards are set and the Test Bank is the appropriate authority. With on the ground, however, much ignorance and certain crooked traders live from the confusion. However, there is a great risk because the slightest manipulation of an old obus can cause a drama, even if there is only one residue of the explosive left in it. The organisers of the upcoming military fairs will be informed of the new arrangements and the circular letter will be drawn up in the near future. The intention is not to bully good citizens, but to ensure their safety. With regard to the number of murders or robberies already carried out with an empty obus, my administration cannot provide statistics, if they are already available, on the basis of your oral question, given the short term.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic090x.u3	Thank you, Minister. I have two more questions, if you don't mind. When can we expect that letter of dispatch? There are a number of fairs that are already in place and the organisers want clarity. I understand your concern about the fact that someone has to accept responsibility if new pieces are found somewhere in the field that are probably not demilitarised at the time. I'm talking about those old umbrella boxes, those empty obuses that have been in the living rooms since great-grandmother's time. Is it intended that those documents should also be endorsed? I hope your tour letter will provide us with an answer on this matter. Perhaps you can give us some clarification about this already?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic090x.u4	Mr President, it is not my custom to answer these questions. As for the timing of the circular: the next day. With regard to your second question, Mr Penris, the answer is that common sense must always prevail.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic090x.u5	Questions Nos 1961 and 1962 by Mrs Karin Jiroflée have been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic090x.u6	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, sections 21 et seq. of the Law of Principles of 12 January 2005 organize a Central Prison Supervision Board, whose mission is, inter alia, to prepare an annual report for the Federal Legislative Chambers and the Minister on prisons, the treatment of prisoners and the observance of the rules concerning them and the evolution of the prison population. The last report submitted to Parliament concerns the period from 2008 to 2010 while the statutory requirement imposes an annual report. The tasks of the Central Council are important since it is in charge of independent monitoring of prisons, the treatment of prisoners and the observance of the rules concerning them. At the same time, the Central Council is responsible for providing advice to the Minister on the administration of prisons and the enforcement of sentences, as well as for coordinating the operation of supervisory commissions. It is particularly significant, in the current state of our prison system, that the Central Council has been struggling to fulfil its tasks and has not submitted a report since 2011. The supervisory commissions, also established by the 2005 Act, have each of their own functions without any directive or code of ethics being imposed on them. The standardization of the methods of operation of these committees should be achieved by first developing a normative framework incorporating the obligations of behaviour towards members in order to avoid overflowing. It would also be appropriate to publish a uniform manual among all commissions that would explain the commission, its operation and its tasks to the new appointed members. Commission members are appointed without any verification of their competence, and it is sometimes a question of knowing that the directorates of the institutions are not even warned of the identity of the new commissioners either. At a time when prisons are particularly pointed out in the phenomenon of radicalism, these issues must be raised in order to improve the functioning of our prisons at all levels. Minister, what plan do you have in the short and medium term for the Central Council to carry out all its statutory tasks? What about the means you will put at his disposal to accomplish his missions? What do you intend to do with the recommendations made by the Central Council on the functioning of prisons and the treatment of prisoners? How will you improve the functioning of the supervisory commissions and, above all, ensure their standardization, as well as the ethics of their members?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic090x.u7	Mr President, Mrs Matz, sections 21 et seq. of the Law of Principles of 12 January 2015, which regulates supervision by the Central Prison Supervisory Board and the local supervisory commissions, have still not entered into force. Pending this entry into force, which I, for my part, wish, it is the similar articles 129 to 138 of the Royal Decree of 21 May 1965 on the general regulation of prisons which are applicable. With regard to your first question, you are asking me to ensure that the Central Prison Supervision Board performs its functions and supervisory tasks. It is the world backwards, because it is precisely the Central Council and the local commissions that must carry out a check on a division of my department, namely prisons. Neither the prison administration nor my political unit nor myself interfere with the functioning of the Council nor in the drafting of opinions and reports. The budget for 2014 was EUR 97 000. For 2015, it was reduced to €76 000, taking into account linear savings across the federal authority. Secondly, in view of the recommendations on the functioning of prisons and the treatment of prisoners, they are examined and taken into account. A delegation from the Central Prison Supervision Board has already had contacts with my political cell. Your third question concerns improving the functioning of local commissions. Both in the government agreement and in my political orientation statement, it is said that the Council and the committees should now report to the House of Representatives to ensure independent oversight of the prison system. Of course, as Minister of Justice, I will also be aware of their report. I am aware that the Central Supervisory Board proposes to transfer the Council and the local committees to the House of Representatives in order to ensure their organic independence from the Minister of Justice and the FPS Justice who controls them. He also proposed that board members should be appointed by the House. A Council delegation has already had contacts with my political cell in this direction and their status and functioning continue to be worked on and optimised. The transfer of the Council to the House, however, does not depend solely on me. I am, in any case, very much in favour of the Commission's total independence.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic090x.u8	Minister, thank you for that clarification. While it is clear that the goal is to move towards dependence on the federal legislatures, since 2011, no more reports have been presented to the chambers. At present, this does not depend on them. Depends on your administration. It's not very healthy. I don't disagree. How can we ensure that a comprehensive report on prisons is submitted promptly? It's not a luxury!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic090x.u9	Minister, I am sure you are aware of the problems that have arisen in the courts of commerce since the judicial reform. Since then, the workload has increased in a practically unacceptable way. At that time we warned the Committee on Justice about the problems that would arise and apparently they are now emerging. In practice, for example, it is not unusual to have to wait four months before clerks understandably manage to deliver an expedition. This is in stark contrast to a number of peace dishes. I do not, of course, see everyone on the same page where the workload as a result of the reform has been greatly reduced and where there is capacity. Hence my questions, a bit based on frustration among several staff of the Justice Department. Firstly, do you support the problems in the courts of commerce? Secondly, are you considering taking measures to deal with this and to achieve a more balanced distribution of the workload, especially in the case of those peace courts which now have excess capacity? Thirdly, are you also considering using other, more modern techniques to lighten the work in the Registry or to make it electronic? I am thinking, for example, of the Failmanager case, which we have also discussed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic090x.u10	Mr Degroote, the problems at the court of commerce with regard to the workload have been pointed out to me several times by Chiefs of Staff and Presidents, and so known. As I have already said, reducing the workload in the courts, and therefore certainly in the court of commerce, will be an important part of the justice plan that I announced when presenting my budget. The long-standing large workload in our courts cannot be solved with one stroke of pens. An integrated palette of measures is needed for this, as you will see. In addition to legislative measures and policy measures, various IT projects will help to reduce the workload in the courts of commerce. You will find them in the first potpourri law, which is the first step in the implementation of the justice plan. I promised this Parliament a presentation of the information strategy of the Justice Department in March. You will also find projects which can be implemented in the shorter term and which can significantly reduce the workload. As I said in my answer to your question No. As has already been pointed out, my cabinet is currently discussing the computerization of bankruptcy files. I repeat that I hope to have clarity in this dossier by the beginning of March of this year at the latest. In this way, I can also indicate in the March explanatory memorandum on information technology how we can find a solution. For more details, I should like to refer to my answer to the above-mentioned question No. 1024.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic090x.u11	Mr President, Minister, thank you very much for your reply. You know that I appreciate your commitment and that I have no doubt that common sense will prevail. Let there be no doubt about that. I hope that in March we will have some insight into the measures. However, I would like to stress once again that these measures are becoming very necessary. You should also include overcapacity in certain courts in your plan so that you can deal with the spread of workload in the short term.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic090x.u12	Minister, very recently I asked you a question about internment in Belgian prisons as a result of Mr Van den Bleeken's situation. You replied that work would be carried out as soon as possible on new specialised shelters, which I am hopeful of. Meanwhile, the Belgian State was once again condemned by the European Court for violating the European Convention on Human Rights. The ECHR states that everyone is entitled to freedom and should not be deprived of it, except in the case of lawful detention of mentally ill persons in this case. For interned persons, deprivation of liberty is only lawful if it occurs in an adapted clinic, institution or hospital. Internates are insanityable, in other words: they cannot distinguish between good and evil, they have no or insufficient awareness of the scope of their actions. Inclusion is therefore not a punishment but a security measure to protect society on the one hand and to provide the person concerned with the necessary concerns for possible reintegration into society on the other. In prison, they don't get that kind of care or therapy. In addition to the stated sentence of the European Court of Justice which requires the State to pay a moral compensation of 120 000 euros to eight interned persons, the Belgian State was also sentenced by the civil court of Turnhout on 13 January 2015 for the poor treatment of an interned person who has hardly received psychiatric assistance during the 32 years he has already been locked up. Here too, the State must pay compensation of EUR 7 500. This leads me to a few questions. In your answer to my question to which I referred, you said that you and the Minister of Health, as soon as possible, I believe that you said within the week that you would try to find the necessary means to provide better medical and psychiatric care. What's the status there? What guidance is there in anticipation of sufficient places for interns currently in the psychiatric ward of various prisons? Is that guidance similar to the care or therapy they would receive at internment? If that is not the case, can that be done? Can the necessary budget be made available for this? The bodies that are now falling out of the closet are the result of your predecessors' policies, we are aware of that, but still have an impact on the current budget. On what budget line are these compensations recovered?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic090x.u13	Mr President, Mr Minister, as my colleague once again pointed out, Belgium is condemned by the European Court of Human Rights for the blatant lack of adequate care for prisoners and the structural lack of places in the appropriate care facilities. Ms. Onkelinx had obtained an agreement in the Council of Ministers to gradually release internees from prison, where there was insufficient therapeutic follow-up and to encourage traditional external care channels to accommodate more internees. I would like to know in a numerical way the status of this agreement. Rather than making dark cuts in the budgets of social defence institutions, such as Paifve's, it is imperative that the current government urgently work in this direction and do its utmost to put an end to these inhuman prison conditions and lack of care. Minister, how many prisoners in mental disorders are still detained in the psychiatric annexes of Belgian prisons? How many places are still available in the centre of Ghent? Are further transfers of internees envisaged? If so, how many people will be able to benefit from it? When can we hope? On the basis of what criteria will these inmates who should be transferred be selected? When will the opening of the second Flemish legal psychiatry centre take place? Are other centres planned in the medium term, particularly in Wallonia and Brussels? Who is responsible for monitoring the consortium and ensuring that the necessary care is provided to these vulnerable people? According to the press, Paifve currently has only 24 hours of psychiatrist per week and one and a half psychologist. Psychiatric annexes are fighting to maintain one. Minister, you will agree that this is far too little for proper management of patients with sometimes severe disorders. You promised us a sustainable funding plan for justice. Will this sector be favoured by fiscal slippages, if at least you get them?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic090x.u14	Mr Minister, my fellow Members have already outlined the situation. We are all once again alarmed by the press about yet another conviction. The problem of internment is not a simple problem, which we have been carrying with us for a long time. With the opening of the FPC in Ghent, a step has already been taken. There are also prospects for other institutions. What total amount was the Belgian government sentenced to? Is this to be charged to the Justice Department's budget? Can you give an update on the deployment of the FPC in Ghent, the further timing and the available budgets? Can you give an update on the FPC file in Antwerp? That is the next institution that should be able to provide temporary reception, in order to allow for any further outflow. Can you give an update on the entry into force of the new internment law of 5 May 2014? What budgetary resources are provided for this? Are legislative action still needed before entry into force? What further steps will you take in relation to internment? Is there any prospect of a long-term solution for the so-called long-stay patients?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic090x.u15	Mrs Uyttersprot, you have indeed asked me questions about my policy plans on internment at the committee meeting of 14 January 2015. I told you at that time that I wanted to discuss with my colleague, responsible for Health, some dossiers, such as the care of interned persons. You noticed then that Rome was not built one day. I told her I'd see her, which I did. I'll talk to her again. A working group of the two Cabinets is now preparing that meeting. The repair and entry into force of the law of 5 May 2014 on the internment of persons is my first concern. This law, which will enter into force on 1 January 2016, has yet to be amended in several respects, without affecting its philosophy. On the basis of the concern for interned people, it is clear that this law will cause problems when fully applied to the field of work. That is why I have set up a working group to examine the unclear provisions of the law. A representative of my colleague responsible for health participates in the meetings of that working group. A first meeting is scheduled for the end of this week. The current convictions are based on a situation that has been going on for more than 30 years. We must face that situation, given that we cannot change the past. What we can do is make the necessary efforts to avoid being condemned for today's policy in the future. Belgium has thus been catching up for several years. The first step in this regard, not least, is the opening and commissioning of the legal psychiatry centre (CPL) in Ghent. This facility will allow our country to welcome inmates and treat them properly. The Ghent PLC has a capacity of 264 places which, according to its schedule, will be fully occupied on 1 September 2015. Today, 55 people are already staying there and new patients are welcomed every week. Receptions are made after appointment by the social defence committees, in consultation with the centre. Efforts are continuing. Construction of a 182-seat PLC in Antwerp is under way and we hope to open this facility in spring 2016. The situation is completely different in Wallonia since there are already social defence institutions, namely in Paifve, Tournai and Mons. In the framework of Masterplan 3, the possibility of an extension of Paifve's capacity is studied. I will not fail to keep you informed of the progress of this matter. Control over the Ghent PLC is double. A Justice, Public Health and INAMI Monitoring Committee monitors general aspects, compliance with contracts and financial monitoring. The Vlaamse Zorginspection will monitor the quality of care. All this will be the subject of a cooperation protocol between all partners. Meanwhile, the prisons are trying to take care of the interned as best they can. Although the vision of the care providers corresponds to that of outside detention, they do not have the same possibilities as outside detention. First of all, a prison is not a therapeutic environment; interned people must abide by the same rules and the same regime as other prisoners. In addition, there are insufficient staff and resources, both in the infrastructure and in the equipment sector, to provide an appropriate range of care for each interneer. Although the offer in the field of ergotherapy and work workshop is comparable to the group offer in a treatment context outside detention, this is not sufficiently extensive and intensive. For example, not all internees can be reached, no full day program can be offered and no care providers are present outside the day hours, which run from 07:30 to 17:30, or on weekends. There are therefore treatments available, but they are insufficient. However, the number of patients will fall significantly in the relatively short term through the FPCs, which will mean that the available resources will have to reach a much smaller target group and will therefore be much more efficient. Finally, I refer to the general expenditure budget and its justification, in particular the basic allocation of B.A.12.40.03.34.41.01. The Belgian State's convictions by the European Court of Human Rights are regarded as all kinds of damages to third parties resulting from the acceptance of the State's responsibility for the acts committed by its organs and servants. Expenditure on this basic allocation is currently financed by an interdepartmental commission. This general commission bundles several similar costs from damages cases and convictions from different departments. It is also used in this case for the costs arising from the files in which the FPS Justice is liable for damages and to pay the costs arising from the Law of 21 April 2007. In 20 cases, EUR 302 998 was paid, EUR 292 000 was reimbursed fairly and the balance of costs and expenditure was paid.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic090x.u16	Minister, the internment in our prisons is a problem. You clearly acknowledge that. The fact that you are meeting twice with your colleague on this matter at such short notice is also very positive. In January alone, there will be 127 500 euros in compensation. I repeat that this is not your responsibility; you have that legacy, we are aware of that. It may perhaps encourage us to treat internment as a priority and see what additional resources are available, since in detention the resources are limited and it is difficult to distinguish between interned and other prisoners, which makes the care inadequate or inadequate. Further steps should be taken as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic090x.u17	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your answer. With regard to the amendment of the law of May 2014, I hope that I have heard you correctly and that you will not change the philosophy of the law for lack of resources. That is what we have tried to do and continue to do with the law of principles. These are good laws with good principles. We must therefore try to apply them on the ground and not change the spirit of the law. I would also point out that if the centre of Ghent exists, it is thanks to the two previous governments that have planned for the future. The legacy of the past is also proof that we have been interested in internees. It is not trivial to open two new centres at the beginning of a legislature. Fortunately, the Minister can inherit existing seats! On the other hand, Minister, you have not indicated how many inmates are still in the psychiatric annexes of prisons. You can give me this number in writing. I'm not talking about psychiatric cases. I'm talking about inmates who don't have a place anywhere else. I would also point out that this framework is no longer sufficient. Paifve's problems are known: a psychiatrist 24 hours a week while Paifve is a specialized centre for internees. It is known that there is insufficient psychological and medical supervision in social protection centres and prisons. I believe that you must demand a considerable budgetary effort in order not to apply staff savings. The situation is already deplorable; it would only worsen.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic090x.u18	Minister, your answers, not just today's, show that you are taking care of the interns. We are often confronted with the fact that legislation from the past is not always practical. Similarly, the necessary resources are not always provided, although there is a law in place to implement them. I understand from your reply that you say that the necessary changes will be made so that the law can also be applied effectively by the end of 2016. The forensic psychiatric center in Ghent is functioning. When the centre in Antwerp is also opened, you hope for a sufficient flow of those who are unjustly in prison, so that the prison population is reduced. I can hear your concern. You confirm that in prisons there are insufficient resources for guidance. The question is whether we can remedy this. An additional impetus can be given from the Communities or from public health, from an external care. I'm not sure, but I'm looking for ways to strengthen guidance in prisons. You are talking about an amount of more than EUR 302 000 in convictions. The question arises as to whether we should not prevent these convictions. That money may come from another departmental post, but perhaps that money can be used for effective care, thus avoiding convictions. I understand that this is not so obvious when it comes to two different budget lines.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic090x.u19	Minister, last week we discussed this. I asked you the question about the possible re-housing of the peace court to the old police building in Ekeren. In short, you replied to me at the time that the investigation was still ongoing. In other words, there was no decision yet. I therefore found it very strange that I received the signal from Antwerp that the Regie der Bouwken had informed me that Justice was no longer interested in the building. That's conflicting information, isn't it? I was forced to ask this question again in order to be clear. After all, the owner of the building, the city of Antwerp, is also waiting for the position of the Justice Department to be able to draw up other plans for the building. In short, what is the state of the investigation? Has the decision been made yet? I understand that you are very much in favour of clear language. I would therefore like to call on you to make your reply as clear as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic090x.u20	Mr Klaps, following on from the reply I gave you last week, I asked my services to continue to inform themselves about the Buildings Regie. I have been informed that Vespa, as the seller of the property, has insisted on a swift decision. As I said last week, the proposed property has advantages, but also disadvantages. In view of the high cost of the purchase and renovation and the fact that the area available is much larger than that needed for a peace process, it was therefore decided, after drafting my reply last week, to for the time being waive the purchase. Is that clear enough?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic090x.u21	Mr Minister, that is clear and clear. I also understand now that half a day or a day difference can sometimes make a big difference to the answer to a specific question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic090x.u22	Mr President, Mr Minister, no one is unaware of the substantial work that the public prosecutor's offices have to do in terms of minutes for speeding up. I have already asked you about this in this committee. This week, the idea of imposing minutes quotas on police areas has become widespread, following the announcement of such a project by the Namur Public Prosecutor's Office, given that this system is already being applied in Flanders. At present, it would appear that almost one in two minutes are not dealt with by the public prosecutor's offices because the workload is high. I therefore understand the prosecutor's willingness to seek an effective solution to respect the absorption capacity of the public prosecutor's offices, while maintaining a deterrent system for motorists. Of course, it is not a question of spreading a sense of impunity. On the contrary, all the minutes that will arrive at the public prosecutor's offices will indeed be dealt with, contrary to the current situation. I remain convinced that radars and minutes are essential tools to make motorists aware of speed limits, so as to reduce the number of accidents and casualties on our roads. The primary objective can be reached by the entire political world. Of course, opinions can be divided. Indeed, once a quota of minutes is set, some who are fast-moving will hope not to be in the quota. Maybe it's giving a bad signal. However, I also understand that the public prosecutor's offices are being shut down. Mr Minister, have you heard of the announcement by the Prosecutor of the King of Liège to introduce this system? What do you think? Are you in favour of these quotas, which will relieve prosecutors but which will limit the number of minutes dealt with? What do you think about this?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic090x.u23	Mr President, Mrs Cassart, criminal policy directives adopting the so-called system of minutes quotas in respect of authorized speed exceedances were generally circulated in the courts of appeal of Liège and Mons, respectively on 22 December 2014 and 21 January 2015. These directives, contrary to what the title of the parliamentary question you are asking me suggests, do not impose quotas on record records on police areas that would prevent them from making such findings beyond these thresholds. They allow prosecutors who encounter difficulties in the full processing of these minutes, taking into account their material capacity and that of the police courts at their headquarters, to set in a balanced manner maximums beyond which such minutes will no longer be dealt with. Such a formula thus reduces to their level the unnecessary tasks associated with the administrative procedure of the classifications without follow-up and restores an effective and therefore credible prosecution policy. It is also a signal of a desire to achieve a better match between enforcement and prosecution policies, taking into account the treatment capacities of prosecutors and police courts in relation to the control objectives of the police services. It is obviously too early to assess the effectiveness of the quota system, which will take place every six months from the entry into force of the directives which took place on the date of their release. This formula is not an end in itself but must lead, in addition to a balance of enforcement and prosecution policies, to the implementation of procedures such as cross-border enforcement and payment orders, and perhaps also to a fundamental reflection on the treatment of this type of infringement, which is now regionalised.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic090x.u24	Minister, contrary to what you said, I have not positioned myself in the question. I took back some information and asked you for your opinion. My position is not stopped. I don't think there's a complete solution. We must try to find solutions to this recurring problem, which has caused the courts to be obstructed. As you said, the goal is to reduce tasks. You are asking yourself whether this policy is credible and you are telling me that it is still too early to carry out an evaluation. Prosecution of the necessary offences and filing for others can be a solution. I think we're going in that direction. But I'm still going to give time to time even if patience is not one of my great virtues. However, an evaluation should be carried out at a given time. I hope that you will keep in touch with these King's prosecutors to have correct and continuous information.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic090x.u25	Mr. Chair, Minister, when you fly, you are subject to a range of safety checks necessary for the proper functioning of the airport and the flight you board. The same is true when you go shopping, there are often at the entrance and exit of the security portals, necessary for the safety and economy of the store. What when you go into a courthouse? Of course, we might think that there are far more security measures, but unfortunately this is not the case in practice. Indeed, let us take the example closest to my home, namely the Liège courthouse. There is indeed a control exercised during the running of a court of assizes. And again, I have already been able to return without a security check just because the portals were broken. If I go down a step and go to the court of first instance, civil party, there is no control at the entrance to the courthouse, or before the courtrooms. Yet you know, as I do, that a large number of people work in this courthouse and that it is our duty to ensure their safety. Security is important in many areas, but perhaps even more so in courthouses. Indeed, these places are frequented by many people and they come from a variety of backgrounds. Moreover, there have already been cases of aggression in the Liège courthouse and, on an international scale, drama has already taken place. The presence of police officers is a good thing, but unfortunately this does not discourage such acts. So, Minister, I have three questions for you. Are you aware of this problem? I guess so. Do you have any contacts to change the file? Can you tell me what is to be considered despite the fact that the period is not conducive to investment?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic090x.u26	Mr President, Minister, since the level of vigilance in Belgium has been raised, lawyers and litigants alike have to undergo a security check at the Brussels courthouse, leading to long queues and even incidents in the vicinity of the building. It is known that a lawyer who attempted to enter the palace through another access than the main entrance filed a complaint of assault after being controlled by agents. In the Chamber of Counsel, cases were taken without waiting for the lawyers. Following a meeting of the Security Corps working group, due to the lack of security personnel, the use of private companies to manage the security of the Brussels courthouse would have been advanced by the Justice FPS. This desire to use a private sector company to manage the passage of security portals as well as the scanning of bags and briefcases on the X-ray at the Brussels courthouse was denounced by the common union front, which is totally opposed to it. Moreover, such a measure, if implemented, will not lead to budgetary savings. Minister, are you seriously considering using the private sector to ensure the security of the Brussels courthouse? Or do you intend, as the common union front claims, to recruit the necessary personnel by extending the framework of the security corps, composed of officers responsible for the transfer and supervision of detainees and the maintenance of law and order in courts and tribunals?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic090x.u27	Minister, the security of our courthouses is a recurring issue in our committee. Given the current circumstances, it may be more topical than ever. It is a difficult issue, as the buildings often have a historical character and are therefore difficult to secure. Court buildings should also be accessible to all, for example for the sake of public access to hearings or access to justice. The Palace of Justice in Brussels is an iconic, historic building, which is difficult to secure. The former Minister of Justice was very ambitious and planned to limit the number of entries or exits to two instead of the usual 28. She also wanted a permanent scan. Under the previous Minister, a pilot project was launched in June 2012 for a very short period to reduce the number of entrances from 28 to two while entering the Scan Street. In the evaluation, Ms Turtelboom indicated that the evacuation routes needed to be re-defined and that additional staff were needed. The FOD was also working on a tender file for a fixed scan street. In addition to the security with regard to the persons who have access to the building, and the way in which it is done, there is also the security within the building. I am thinking, for example, of fire safety or signalling and the proper functioning of emergency exits. In addition, 30 safety measures were proposed following an overall audit in May 2012. As a result, a fire safety study was carried out on a completely new fire alarm and evacuation system. A detailed evacuation plan was drawn up in the P1 working group. In this context, a number of entrances had to be cleared and a series of internal doors adapted or added. The adjustment works on the interior doors were started. A series of corridors had to be evacuated. At the level of some judicial services, individuals have already been identified as evacuation stewards. Some other services are still in the process of identifying evacuation stewards. A draft emergency plan was drawn up and submitted for reading and approval to those responsible for all relevant judicial and security services. I have the following questions, Minister. Firstly, how is the plan to permanently reduce the number of entrances from 28 to two? Secondly, with regard to the scan street, what is the progress on the tender dossier? Will the scan street remain operational permanently after the threat level for terror falls back to level two? Will there be additional staff and who will pay the staff costs? The waiting times that occur at the entrance, and of which the lawyers are also the victims, appear to be a great inconvenience. There is a separate entrance for the magistrates. Does another entrance for magistrates belong to the possibilities? Why not? I have just received an e-mail from the staff member of the Brussels Bar stating that they themselves have developed a badge system to facilitate access for lawyers. Thirdly, what is the status of evacuation routes and evacuation plans? Have all the necessary entrances been cleared? Where are we on the adjustment of the interior doors? Have the necessary corridors been cleared? Have the evacuation stewards been designated within all departments? Has the draft emergency plan been finally approved and in force? Fourthly, has the study on a new and complete fire alarm and evacuation system been completed? What are the results? When will implementation take place? What will this cost? Whose budget is this gonna be on? Fifth, when was the last time a fire department inspection took place at the justice palace?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic090x.u28	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, you have more questions than I have answers, but I will do my best. Mrs Cassart, patience comes with age, so you still have time to become patient. Security in courthouses is obviously a priority. My services have developed a concept of security for the interior and surroundings of justice buildings. This concept is based, on a continuous risk analysis, on the integration of three elements: the organisation in the field, the configuration of the building in question and the electronic equipment available, each of which is adapted to a level proportional to the risk. The measures drafted by the Infrastructure Directorate of the FPS Justice are decided by type of courthouse. A distinction is made between large courthouses, justices of the peace and warehouses for the storage of exhibits. Meanwhile the events of Verviers have occurred and the level of threat has been raised to 3. The security measures currently in place in many courthouses are therefore adapted one after the other to the current exceptional situation at level 3 of the threat. They are mainly reflected in the increased deployment of police services and even, as at the Brussels courthouse, of military personnel. These measures will be re-evaluated once the level of threat is reduced. The situation in Brussels and in the courthouse is particularly specific because, in particular, it is the seat where many more and more terrorism-related cases are being dealt with. The presence of a scanning portal in Brussels is therefore fully justified following the raising of the level of the threat. A number of measures have been taken in close consultation with the judiciary, the FPS Justice, the police and the security forces. Thus, judges and staff have a reserved entrance where their identity is verified. At the scanner portal and next to the normal visitor queue, a priority queue is reserved for lawyers. Most of the persons concerned have shown understanding, given the exceptional nature of the situation and accept the practical inconveniences associated with these measures. Meanwhile, there is also an appointment with the counters so that the lawyers can also use the professional access. This is subject to a self-identification system with badges that can provide the necessary guarantees. Both the current provisional setting and the future remodeling files of the Regie are subject to a separate entrance for professional users. The magistrates and staff should therefore not pass the scan street, but have their own professional access provided that the identification badge and the identity card are displayed. Moreover, waiting times are relatively limited and similar to other public institutions, including the European ones, which also have the operative part of a scan street. With regard to the question about the entrance doors, the Directorate of Buildings has three different dossiers under discussion. The first concerns the construction physical adaptation of all doors on the perimeter of the Palace of Justice defined as an emergency door so that those doors will still be useful as escape routes only. The second dossier concerns the adjustments to the main entrance Poelaertplein and side entrance Wolstraat. The main entrance is being converted as part of the creation of an infrastructure that allows the implementation of a fixed scan street, compared to a mobile infrastructure today. Two separate circuits will be provided: an input for non-professional users with scanning capability and a separate automated input for professional users. The side entrance at Wolstraat will have both an entrance for professional users and a solution for the delivery of goods. The third file should provide for the electronic security measures linked to the two previous files. For the precise prognosis of planning and implementation, I refer to the competent colleague for the Directorate of Buildings. The Department of Justice calls for the rapid implementation of these works. The task of manning the Scan Street is a relatively recent fact from the previous legislature and was given to the security corps in addition. The problem is that this happened without any additional staff. Until recently, the security corps was able to cope with this since the measure of the Scan Street was only in force ad hoc as a result of the threat analysis. A fundamental change has been taking place since a few months, as the threat analysis specifically poses an increased threat to the Brussels Justice Palace. The security force pulled the alarm shortly after I stepped in. We have listened to their concerns and are currently looking for a solution. Several options were indeed examined, such as the additional recruitment of staff or the use of other staff. The intention is to provide a solution as soon as possible to the problem identified to us and at the same time to ensure the normal functioning of the palace. After this section on security, there are also a number of questions about the safety of the Brussels Justice Palace. The emergency plan has been approved and is in force. The evacuation routes within the justice palace were adapted, both in terms of clearing the corridors and in terms of their function of escape route. It should be noted, however, that there was a deviation in the direction of rotation of the door. Still in the context of the escape routes, provision is awaited for the appropriate emergency signalling, a dossier that is also being examined by the Regie. A first evacuation exercise has already taken place. The appointment of sufficient members of the first intervention team and evacuation stewards is the responsibility of the respective judicial services, who are still currently trying to motivate sufficient people in this respect. The FPS Justice will then provide appropriate training initiatives. The technical study and the investments for a completely new fire alarm and evacuation system are to be borne by the Government of the Buildings. The layout of the appropriate specifications would be completed shortly. The study will be based on the preliminary draft developed within the scope of the Working Group P1 and, of course, in line with the evacuation plan. The fire department has systematically advised the FPS Justice and the Government of the Buildings in the preparation of the various safety files.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic090x.u29	Minister, thank you for the completeness of your answer. I realize that the security in the palaces is not so simple, because you have a collaboration with the Régie des Bâtiments to respect. It is important to move forward gradually on this issue and to continue to strengthen this security. I am counting on you to get in touch with the minister who has the Régie des Bâtiments in his responsibilities and to change the file, because security is a key element.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic090x.u30	Minister, I would also like to thank you for your extremely detailed answer. Unfortunately, you haven't answered my question. You say that to find a solution with the security body, you will either increase its frame or find another solution. Is it to entrust the security of the courthouse to the private sector? If you are really attentive to ensuring security at the courthouse, this mission is important and entrusting it to the private sector does not involve the same responsibilities or control as entrusting this mission to public authorities by increasing the framework of the security corps. Personally, I prefer this second option rather than the private sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic090x.u31	Thank you for your reply, Minister, also for the written reply. I'll read it again. I have received many answers to my questions and at least I think it is a good thing that an emergency plan finally exists for the justice palace. It was incomprehensible, after all, that this has taken so long. But in the end, it's there, and we're very happy about that. I will also consult the colleague of the Buildings Committee on the points which concern him.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic090x.u32	Mr. Chairman, Minister, you have recently been questioned about the conditions for the establishment of the detailed medical certificate under the new disability regime. Indeed, it appears that there are practical difficulties with the request that all statements on the form be completed. Treating physicians appear to have difficulty deciding on the health status of the person according to the international classification of functioning, disability and health because they do not have mastery of this classification. With regard to the practice of justices of the peace, it also appears that there are dissidents between some who accept the incomplete medical certificate, and others who demand that the form be duly completed. Thus, the processing of certain cases of the disabled person may be delayed according to the justice of the peace seized. As a result, you have been proposed to amend the schedule to the Royal Decree of 31 August 2014 in order to limit the mandatory information that must be included in the form in order not to delay the files of the persons concerned. Minister, have you been aware of this problem? Do you think you will be able to respond to the request and thus facilitate the work of persons with disabilities and treating physicians?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic090x.u33	Mr President, Mrs Özen, it was only very recently, on 26 January, that, by letter from the Socialist Association of the Disabled, I was informed of this issue of the detailed medical certificate provided for in the new legislation on the disabled. The legislator has organized the detailed medical certificate so that the justice of the peace can use it to assess a person's state of disability and to determine the appropriate legal regime of incapacity. This is a necessary condition for meeting the requirements of Article 12 of the UN Convention of 13 November 2006 on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. Under the old legislation, the detailed medical certificate was often not sufficiently precise. Article 1241 of the Judicial Code now specifies what the detailed medical certificate must at least mention. These mandatory statements are included in the standard form of medical certificate established by the Royal Decree of 31 August 2014. The mandatory mention of the effects of health status on functioning, according to the international classification of functioning, disability and health adopted on 22 May 2001 by the 54th World Health Assembly, aims precisely to promote compliance with this requirement. Given the legislator's objective of giving the justice of the peace sufficient tools to meet our obligations to respect fundamental rights, it is not obvious that the mandatory statements in the medical certificate should be limited without further limitation. The law is clear and must therefore be applied. However, I understand the concern that, as far as possible, I can quickly decide on the need to adopt a protective measure against a vulnerable adult. Therefore, I will have this consultation evaluated in consultation with the parties concerned, as part of the enforcement measures of 17 March 2013. And I will examine whether and to what extent this concern can be addressed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic090x.u34	Minister, thank you for your answer. In any case, I see with a good eye this assessment that you intend to implement. Indeed, it is very important to harmonize all practices in the country to prevent a judge from deciding that a form that has not been duly completed is acceptable, while another judge refuses to do so. However, the files of these persons must be dealt with very quickly. It is therefore also a way of not hindering the smooth running of the files.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic090x.u35	Mr President, Mr Minister, last Friday, the Council of Ministers announced that it had taken important decisions in the fight against terrorism and radicalism, and in particular with regard to wiretapping. The framework within which judicial authorities can use wiretapping will be expanded and, above all, made more flexible so that wiretapping can be carried out more quickly. Minister, you have stated your willingness to listen to the telephone conversations of those who encourage terrorism. The current record list includes offences for which the police can wire a suspect. Terrorism is one of them, but only for its classic description, that is, the planning, support, financing or execution of an attack. The definition of terrorism will therefore be significantly expanded. Follow-up or training for the purpose of committing an attack will also be considered terrorism, as will propaganda of such terrorism and recruitment for terrorist-related acts. The aim is to add new offences related to terrorism to the list of offences for which wiretapping is possible. Telephone wiretapping is in fact a simple and very effective way of obtaining evidence of an offence or of the risk of committing an offence. But it is an intrusive means of investigation to be used only as a last resort! Yet, it has become a classic and almost trivialized way of research. The number of people listening has doubled in seven years and between 2010 and 2014 alone, from 450 people listened to per year to 600, mainly in connection with terrorism. While this is obviously an important issue, requests are not always indispensable. This is why the SPF is exploring the possibility of making judges aware of the possibility of drafting more targeted applications. Minister, at the legal level, what is the scope of the extension of this definition? Will this extension actually reduce the risk of attacks? How do you explain this significant increase, this doubling of the number of listening in recent years? Can you distribute these listenings according to the type of offence? Knowing the difficulties you have in honouring invoices from telephone operators, with what budgetary means do you intend to achieve this increase in telephone taps? Despite the budgetary measures taken in June 2013 to reduce these invoices, they have unfortunately increased further. Are you considering a way to control the use of these particular investigative methods to ensure that you respect the fundamental freedoms of citizens?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic090x.u36	Dear colleague, you yourself have answered the first part of your question and I thank you for that. The draft law approved by the Government on Friday, 6 February, submitted for the opinion of the Council of State, includes in the list of offences for which wiretapping is possible terrorist offences, which were not yet there, i.e. incitement, training, recruitment into terrorism and the new criminalization of "travel for terrorist purposes", also provided for in the draft law. Your second question concerns the budgetary dimension. It is important in the debate on wiretapping, but not in order to determine whether or not it is appropriate to place an offence on this list. The question of the list revolves around proportionality. The terrorist offences included in the list are serious offences, the prosecution of which is essential for combating terrorism in general. Incitement and training, recruitment into terrorism or going abroad for terrorist purposes are all behaviours that cause enormous damage to our society. The current context seems to me to demonstrate this amply. Making listening possible therefore seems to me entirely justified. Recent events have shown how essential telephone wiretapping is to prevent attacks and to identify active terrorist cells. That being said, it is true that phone taps are expensive. I am working on it; discussions are under way with the operators in order to reduce the costs. In particular, the aim is to improve the administrative procedure in order to reduce the costs for operators and therefore the costs they charge to the Belgian courts. Let me turn to your fourth question. The examination shall be carried out a priori by the investigating judge, when the latter decides to use this measure, by the investigating courts at the level of the rules of procedure, and finally by the trial judge. The person shall receive a notification, after the procedure has been settled, and may assert his or her rights. Our system is very protective; in general, the Belgian system for listening to telephones is a balanced one. The proposed amendment does not upset this balance, but is, on the contrary, consistent with existing legislation and with the needs of the fight against terrorism.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic090x.u37	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. This is, of course, an extremely sensitive matter. It is of course important to fight terrorism, but above all by ensuring respect for fundamental freedoms, which are essential in a rule of law. There is therefore a need to set up a system to control these telephone wiretappings. Obviously, in order to meet this ambition, we must have the means and the budget. I hope you can reach an agreement with the telephone operators. We know the difficulties you have in honouring past bills.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic090x.u38	Mr Minister, last week the press reported on the concerns of Belgian judicial experts. The Institute of Judicial Experts explained the reasons for this concern. First of all, although the law establishing a national register of judicial experts (adopted at the end of February 2014) is a good step forward, the establishment of this register would be very difficult. The law requires the establishment of a list of judicial experts; that the prosecutor's office investigate each of them; that they take an oath before the Court of Appeal; that legitimization cards be drawn up; and that an appeal board be set up to examine complaints from those who have not been detained. According to the Vice-President of the Institute of Judicial Experts, "the budgetary restrictions will prevent this work from being carried out before 1 December 2016, the deadline for the entry into force of the law". But these restrictions also weigh on experts in another way, as they complain about being poorly paid and being paid with significant delays. The Institute estimates payment delays at EUR 90 million and payments sometimes take place up to two years after the closure of the files. The budgetary context – which, I would remind you, is 17 million fewer than in 2014 in the 2015 budget, while the backlog is 88 million – could lead to a limitation of the number of expertises, which would ultimately undermine the quality of investigations. The lack of clerks is also complicating the task of these experts. Minister, have you recently or will you very soon meet with the representatives of the judicial experts to discuss the problems they face? Should we fear or consider a limitation of expertise? And, if so, how do you intend to do it? What plan have you implemented to address these late payments? When do you think the situation can be normalized? Can experts hope for an early improvement in their concrete situation? In advance, thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic090x.u39	Mrs Özen, both my office and the administration have an ongoing dialogue with judicial experts. However, the executive branch has no say in the use of judicial experts in individual judicial proceedings. It is the judiciary that decides on the means used to carry out a criminal investigation. The executive branch can, however, ensure that the overall amount of legal fees can be reduced by more efficient treatment of cost statements, by simplifying certain procedures, by integrating the cost of certain technological innovations into pricing, by simplifying tariffs, by automating controls, by charging statements, etc. All these projects have been launched and will be a significant gain for the costs of justice in general. The judiciary is also involved in reducing costs by comparing consumption patterns, exchanging good practices and using forensic advisers to help them conduct criminal investigations in the most cost-effective way possible, depending on the objective or outcome to be achieved. The government agreement provides for the government to contribute to improving the business climate by, among other things, ensuring timely payments. I will not fail in the next budgetary discussions to insist on a further resorption of part of the backlog, after I made every possible effort at the end of 2014 to allocate as many available resources as possible to the payment of the costs of justice. In addition, I will pay particular attention to certain categories of experts whose income depends largely on their involvement in criminal proceedings.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic090x.u40	Minister, thank you for your answer. I am pleased to learn that your firm maintains relations with the Institute of Judicial Experts and judicial experts in general. They were disappointed that they had not met with you, as were the jurors who were in the same situation and were experiencing the same difficulties. You met with the sworn interpreters; the experts deplored the fact that you did not contact them. I think it would be a good thing to do that. With regard to the elimination of the backlog, it is very important to deal with it even if we know the budgetary difficulties you are facing in the Justice Department. To be paid two years after the closure of a case – we also know that they do not earn much – is deplorable for people who participate in the proper functioning of the justice system.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic090x.u41	Minister, the press relays the conclusion of the Association de visiteurs francophones de prison de Belgique: "The prison seriously harms health". The association gathered the testimonies of visitors to the prisons in Brussels and Wallonia. Physicians, psychologists and nurses, who usually work in prisons, also participated in a day of reflection on this topic. The findings are shocking: lack of doctors, psychologists and nurses, as well as inadequate budgets... All this combined seriously compromises care and its quality. In prison, the security aspect passes above all else, therefore, in case of a fight, transfer of dangerous prisoners etc., the whole prison is blocked. In this case the doctor is sometimes invited to leave the premises without even consulting an inmate during the day! On the other hand, the detainee must automatically complete a written application, while more than one in three detainees do not have a basic education certificate or do not know one of the country's languages, which constitutes an obstacle to the medical care of many detainees. Prison is also the primary risk factor for certain serious or specific diseases, such as tuberculosis, hepatitis C or AIDS. Alcoholism and drugs also affect 40% of inmates. One in four inmates was said to have tested heroin. A doctor at the Lantin supervisory board estimated that 70 to 80 per cent of inmates were drug addicts. Entered "clean", one in two inmate becomes a drug addict behind bars! Minister, what do you intend to do to ensure that inmates have access to care that is equivalent to what they would be entitled to outside? How do you plan to manage the safety aspect so that it is no longer an obstacle to health care delivery? How do you intend to fight prison insurance? What do you intend to do to combat the prevalence of serious or specific diseases in prison? Are you considering transferring the competencies of FPS inmate care Justice to Public Health?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic090x.u42	Mr President, Mrs Özen, first of all, I would like to make it clear that I cannot confirm the figures you are referring to. They are not based on a scientific basis but are based primarily on feelings rather than reliable data. I recall that the prison administration works with more than 400 health-care providers who obviously have the same skills and skills as their colleagues. The care they provide is of the same quality as outside the prison. In addition, medical treatment in prison is free of charge for prisoners, contrary to what is happening in free society; and health-care providers are very easy to access. Apart from a few prisons for dentists, there are no waiting lists for consultations. When a thorough examination is required, the physician will take the necessary time to perform it. I would also like to point out that the medicines are distributed on time and in time. The manner in which this happens is in full compliance with the regulations in use and has been validated by the Public Health Technical Committee. In conclusion, even though things can obviously be improved, not everything is perfect, inmates receive quality care and the equivalency of care is guaranteed. Caricature or amplify real problems does not bring any solution to this issue. Reconciling the medical and safety aspects is indeed a major challenge. I am convinced that everyone is trying to reconcile these two logics in the most pragmatic way possible. This will be a central focus of our discussions with Public Health. The problem of drugs is old and linked to societal phenomena. In this regard, I am pursuing the policy of my predecessors on the basis of all approaches: prevention, repression and treatment. As far as serious diseases are concerned, long-term treatments, particularly for hepatitis C, are obviously started or completed in prison. Doctors in prison detect dozens of serious diseases each year, such as cancers, which are therefore the subject of appropriate treatment. I would also like to point out that every inmate entering the prison is subject to medical examination, including a tuberculosis test. In this regard, prison is not strictly speaking a risk factor. It is more accurate to say that prison is a place where there is a higher concentration of a public at risk. If there are proportionally more prisoners with tuberculosis, it is also because there are proportionally more people in prison who come from regions or environments where tuberculosis is endemic or more prevalent. Justice and Health are currently examining the possibility of increasing the involvement of Health in the organization and financing of health care in prison. In this regard, the Government Agreement provides that, within the framework of the Interdepartmental Conference on Public Health, to which the Minister of Justice will also be associated, consideration will be given to how the organization and funding of prison health care can be optimized.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic090x.u43	Minister, thank you for your answer. You say it's a feeling, because the data is unreliable. These are people who work in prisons such as doctors, nurses, etc. I would also like to recall that Belgium has been condemned on several occasions for inhuman and degrading treatment. When you say that prison would not be a risk factor, but that it would be people at risk, you play with words. Indeed, it may be unhealthy conditions of detention that lead to an increasing incidence of tuberculosis. In any case, I have no doubt that you will be attentive to this issue of health care. As a first step, the provision of health care should not be hindered by formalities or security measures that would prevent a doctor from consulting in a prison.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic090x.u44	Mr President, I apologise for changing the agenda, but I was stuck in another committee. Mr Minister, next weekend, on 15 February, it is five years since the Buizingen train disaster, where two trains collided. As you know, therefore, a special committee was set up in Parliament which has drawn up recommendations and is carrying out a permanent evaluation with SNCB, Infrabel, DVIS and others. Five years later, it remains deafeningly silent from an angle, namely that of the Justice Department. Unfortunately, every year around this time, I have to ask the same question, and each time I get the same answer: the investigation will almost be completed. After five years today, I hope to get another answer: a very concrete state of affairs, without, of course, violating the secret of the investigation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic090x.u45	Mr President, Mr Geerts, as Minister of Justice, I cannot respond in detail to individual pending dossiers. The information I can give you was forwarded to me by the Attorney General of Brussels. The history of the file is well known to you. On 15 February 2010, in the context of the Buizingen train disaster, the Brussels Public Prosecutor requested a judicial investigation from the investigating judge on the grounds of accidental killing and accidental beatings and injuries. On 14 April 2010, he was asked to investigate the criminal offence of unintentionally causing a train accident. In the context of the judicial investigation, the investigating judge ordered on 16 February 2010 a college of experts to identify the causes of the train disaster. A first detailed report was submitted by the College on 14 February 2012. On 15 March 2013, the investigating judge ordered the College of Experts with an additional examination, which was deposited by that College on 14 February 2013. Following the split of the parquet, the file was transferred from the Brussels parquet to the new parquet of Halle-Vilvoorde on 1 April 2014. On 22 May 2014, the investigating judge informed Halle-Vilvoorde of the file for final action. On 27 June 2014, following an analysis of the file and, inter alia, on the basis of the findings of the College of Experts, the Prosecutor of the King asked the investigating judge to proceed to the suspicion and hearing of SNCB and Infrabel as legal entities, as well as of the surviving train driver. On 17 September 2014, the investigating judge assumed the suspicion of SNCB, Infrabel and the train driver. In view of the imminent retirement of the first investigating judge, another investigating judge was ordered to continue the investigation on 2 February 2015. The investigation is currently in a final phase, the interviews of the suspects are scheduled in the next few months. In the meantime, the court of the King's Attorney in Halle-Vilvoorde finalises a draft final claim, subject, of course, to any new elements in the investigation. In this way, once the file has been communicated by the investigating judge to the court for final action, the stage of the settlement of justice before the court in Brussels can be initiated as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic090x.u46	Mr President, Minister, thank you for this very precise history. I hope that there will be clarity, especially for the next of kin. After all, this is also an important stage in a mourning process, in order to be able to move on with life. I hope that this is the last year in which I have to ask this question about this period.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic090x.u47	Mr President, Minister, there are a number of reasons why the Fortis case, currently pending at the Brussels Court, may be subject to a statute of limitations. Given the importance of the case, this would be a real problem with regard to the capacity of our State to do justice. The facts justifying this fear are, on the one hand, the fact that the judge who has conducted the investigation since 2008 has been retired since the beginning of this month; on the other hand, the other judge in charge of the case will soon be transferred to a new cell for new functions. As a reminder, the King's prosecutor's brief had been prepared a year ago, after a four-year investigation. The Public Prosecutor's Office then asked the board to order the removal of seven former Fortis bank officers to the correctional court. The dossier to be re-appropriated by the new judges in charge of the case has more than 15,000 pages of high-tech content, while it is so difficult to employ judges specializing in financial matters. Minister, what is the judicial status of the case? What justifies the transfer of the second judge in charge of the case? Why is it not planned at the end of the trial? How do you assess the risk of prescribing? When would the prescription be theoretically reached? What provisions are being implemented to avoid it? What is the FPS Justice's focus on this issue? It seems to me that such a case deserves particular attention because it has created an important emolument in Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic090x.u48	Mr President, Mr Gilkinet, you know that in principle, in my capacity as Minister of Justice, I am not speaking about any individual cases in progress. The elements I am presenting are therefore those which are communicated to me by the Brussels Prosecutor General in order to allow me to answer your question. The additional duties ordered by the Indictments Chamber are in the process of being carried out. The assignment and distribution of cases is the exclusive competence of the judicial authorities. The Prosecutor of the King of Brussels states that the change of ownership of the case within his prosecutor's office will not affect the progress of the proceedings, since the new magistrates have the opportunity to analyse the cases while they are still in the investigation for the additional duties. In addition, the replacement of the incumbent will be for the benefit of the two judges who will follow the case at all stages of the proceedings, first instance and appeal, which will ensure continuity of processing and more efficient management. There is currently no risk of prescription. The exact time at which the limitation will be acquired can only be determined once the additional duties have been performed and the holders have drafted their final requisitions. As regards the means used to avoid limitation, I refer to what has been said.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic090x.u49	Minister, I take note. I understand your caution, you are the spokesperson for information that is transmitted to you by the judicial officers in charge of the case. However, you have a global responsibility for the means and organisation of justice and you must admit with me that this is a sensitive issue because of its scale. Thousands of Belgians were directly affected by the bankruptcy of Fortis. State finances have been called upon to help the bank. I would not like to be complicit, by silence, in an extraordinary failure if, in a few years' time, one realized that one could not, for reasons of organisation and means, arrive at a judicial truth in this case. I would even say that I wish, beyond the fact that it is fair, that it be rendered relatively quickly because the longer the distance between the facts and their judgment, the more the judgment can be called into question as to its effectiveness. Thank you for paying attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic090x.u50	Minister, begging is not prohibited in our country. Nor is it my intention to ask you to ban it. For some people, it is the only way to survive. Something is going on, though. In some places, beggars are very aggressive. Even more, exploitation, exploitation and inciting begging are forbidden in our country. The Law of 10 August 2005 provides for the criminalisation of exploitation of begging. Despite this, gangs who use beggars often remain elusive. Sometimes this is also about minors. In its 2011 annual report on trafficking in human beings, the Centre for Equality of Opportunities and the fight against Racism already referred to the lack of approach to organised begging. I quote from the report: "These files rarely give rise to prosecution by the public prosecutor. The fight against these trafficking in human beings requires a lot of investigative resources from the police. In practice, several begging files were stopped because they were very time-consuming and offered a low chance of effective burden of proof for a successful conviction before the court. The quotation comes from the 2011 annual report. During the previous legislature, then Minister of Justice Turtelboom referred to a working group with the College of Attorney General and the Criminal Policy Service. The college would work on human trafficking and begging. In the longer term, the Group wished to examine the development of a common and more general means of providing guidance on judicial and police action in this area. This is very important because many cities and municipalities want to act, but do not have the necessary resources. What measures does the government envisage in the fight against organised and aggressive begging? Can you give me an update on the working group to which Minister Turtelboom referred? Has the working group already led to the specific directives it was required to draw up? How many lawsuits have been brought in recent years against gangs inciting begging? What was the outcome of these trials?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic090x.u51	Mr Minister, our big cities are increasingly affected by begging. Recently a number of situations were reported to me in Ghent that are not acceptable, including by self-employed workers, shopkeepers, neighborhood residents near the station. The city of Ghent itself refers to a police regulations that were approved to ban aggressive forms of begging. This regulation is quite far-reaching: it is not only about a description of begging in an aggressive way, but also about the ban on the use of animals, the ban on begging on sidewalks which makes pedestrians' passage difficult and the ban on begging at crossroads in the vicinity of vehicles. The city of Ghent has therefore introduced this rather far-reaching regulation. It goes beyond a mere description of aggressive begging. That's a very specific description. It is said that we cannot go beyond this, but this social problem remains because begging is not prohibited. Only the exploitation of begging is prohibited by law. During the previous legislature, the former Justice Minister Turtelboom set up a working group, consisting of the College of Attorney General, the Criminal Policy and Justice Service, to examine the measures to be taken to combat begging in the context of trafficking in human beings. Can you give an update on the working group? Is it still there? Will it be re-established? Have any concrete measures emerged from this? Or will you not continue this and think of something else? What measures will you take in the fight against aggressive and organized begging or begging in general? Are you planning a legislative initiative?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic090x.u52	First of all, I would like to point out that the Criminal Code penalises the exploitation of begging, but that the concept of aggressive begging does not in itself constitute exploitation and therefore does not correspond to a criminal offence. Therefore, situations of aggressive begging without any element of exploitation cannot be prosecuted in the event of a lack of criminal offence, except where another criminal qualification can be invoked, for example beatings and injuries. On the exploitation of begging and trafficking in human beings, two texts are being prepared, namely a new circular on trafficking in human beings and a circular on the situations of exploitation of begging. Given that trafficking in human beings involves situations of exploitation of begging, priority was given to the circular on trafficking in human beings. The circular on trafficking in human beings has now been approved by the College of Attorneys General and is prepared by the administration for signature by the Minister responsible. As indicated, this letter is not specifically aimed at the exploitation of begging but at all forms of trafficking, including the exploitation of begging. The text highlights, inter alia, the protection of minor victims of trafficking in human beings, involving youth magistrates more closely in local coordination meetings at the level of the judicial district. The issues relating to the exploitation of begging and the exploitation of minors will be more relevant. With regard to the exploitation of begging, you refer to the working group specifically set up to deal with the exploitation of begging. It has also continued to come together with the main objective of bringing the actors in the field together on the problem and organising networking around the problem. The findings of this working group are as follows: Evidence of this problem is difficult to find as the groups active in the field of begging and exploitation of begging are often travelling groups. There are problems with the identification of persons. Moreover, some victims or persons involved see begging as a clan-related or even family organisation and do not experience the existence of situations of exploitation as a form of crime or see themselves as victims. Consequently, it is particularly difficult to get victims to testify or to cooperate in the investigations. The court can always rely on other elements, but it remains difficult to prosecute in those circumstances. A legislative initiative in this area is not immediately envisaged. It is also doubtful whether the approach with new legislation can be improved. In particular, it is the information and detection mechanisms for situations of exploitation that need to be improved. In this context, several initiatives are being taken in the coming months, such as training for guardians of unaccompanied minors, including non-European minors. As far as the figures are concerned, the sentencing statistics show that in 2013 two convictions for the exploitation of begging were issued under Article 433ter, secundo, of the Criminal Code. According to the annual report of the Foreign Affairs Office, between 2011 and 2013, six new victims of trafficking in human beings benefited from the protection procedure in the context of a file on the exploitation of begging. Additional information can be found in the Government's report on the fight against trafficking in human beings and in the report of the Federal Migration Centre. This latest report of 2013 identified 33 human trafficking offences for the exploitation of begging. This means a quarter reduction compared to 2011 and 2012.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic090x.u53	Minister, your answer is partly positive because you say that there will be a new circular which will focus on trafficking in human beings and the exploitation of minors. But that is not enough; trafficking in human beings is much more than begging. What is worrying is that the working group on exploitation must also find that it is very difficult to pursue these matters. I think that we should continue to work on this, and preferably at European level. Most of the time, it's European gangs moving around and recruiting people. In this way, it is even more difficult for cities to act against it. Also disturbing are the convictions. In 2013, there were barely two, while the signals we get from the cities indicate much more than that. I believe that something more needs to be done to deal with things. It is not possible for the working group to say that it is too difficult to make findings and therefore not to do anything anymore. That is why I would ask you to encourage the working party to find cases. I also find it weird that you're talking about training for guardians. I think you should think first of all about the funding of guardians. Yesterday, after all, I received a letter saying that there too, the delay is already getting worse.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic090x.u54	Minister, your answer was, in a way, enlightening to me. I note that no one here is advocating the criminalisation of begging as such, not even Mrs Temmerman. I can support Mr Temmerman in what she says about a European and coordinated approach. We focus on the story of human trafficking, the existing networks and the gangs moving around. It is not obvious to tackle them and to identify them properly. Nevertheless, I find it interesting that a city like Ghent issues police regulations. As a result of my question, I did some research. In fact, things can be tackled at local level in this way. Other cities and municipalities could do the same. It seems that it remains very difficult to apply such a regulation effectively. The regulation is on paper and is not so obvious to put into practice. We must continue to focus on tackling this issue in a coordinated manner so that we can really tackle the underlying networks.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic090x.u55	Debates of the European Parliament 2115 by Mrs Lahaye-Battheu has been postponed, i.e. 2116 by Mrs Van Cauter.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic090x.u56	Mr President, Minister, the press has announced that the prisons of Hasselt and Bruges in the north of the country, and those of Ittre and Lantin in the south are highly anticipated to bring together all detainees "with a jihadist profile". We know that your intention to cut them off from other inmates is to prevent radicalization in prison. I hope that we will have another opportunity to debate it really, because we do not know how you intend to do so, especially since you have refused hearings on this subject. We are not at all convinced that isolating these people is the best way to work. Upon your announcement, prison officials responded through the press. They ask for a special bonus and training for the agents who work in these "special" wings. Minister, what are your intentions with regard to the detainees so excluded? Will they be in a regime in which they almost never leave their cell, in which no activity or supervision is foreseen? Or, on the contrary, do you plan to take appropriate care to deradicalize them as quickly as possible? Are you planning on rehabilitating high-security neighbourhoods, while many people have struggled for more than 20 years to close them? Will you respond favourably to prison officials who request a bonus and training? They, fearing increased violence, also ask for special intervention clothing? What exactly is this? How do you envisage that? When will you introduce a bill to deal with this issue at the prison level? It will be done via circulars. Finally, Mr Minister, I regret that, on such an important subject, as prisons are a major problem of great interest to many people and experts, we cannot conduct hearings since the majority of this committee rejected them. However, a real debate on how to treat these detainees would have been necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic090x.u57	Mr Minister, indeed, you have referred to your desire to establish a "wise distribution" of prisoners in the various prisons in the country based on the risk of radicalization that they represent. I'm not saying everything that's just been said again. I come directly to some very practical and concrete questions. Minister, what do you mean by a judicious distribution of inmates? What authority is it empowered to decide to apply a particular detention regime to an inmate? On what basis is this decision taken? Is there currently a specific detention regime for prisoners at risk of radicalism or terrorism, or are the measures to be taken at the discretion of the heads of institutions? Is the isolation of a detainee currently feasible in all prisons in the country? Is this isolation, in your opinion, an effective solution to manage the risks posed by radical detainees or those linked to terrorist acts? According to some testimonies, when a leader is identified, he is transferred to another prison. Is this logic not ultimately likely to export the phenomenon to other prisons? On what basis will an inmate's risk of radicalization be assessed? What are the elements taken into account in this regard?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic090x.u58	Ladies and gentlemen, of course I want to work constructively with Parliament in this area. I would like to point out that I have not refused to hold hearings on the fight against radicalisation in prisons, but rather to postpone the decision on this subject until the plan is presented. Depending on the committee, the committee will then be able to decide whether it considers it appropriate to hold hearings and on what topics. I believe that the request for postponement was the best initiative to take, because I will be presenting my plan very soon. I intend to do this during the week following the carnival leave. My plan will focus on concrete implementation measures and, to a lesser extent, legislative initiatives. A lot of discussions took place around the best solution to combat radicalization in prisons. First possibility: it would be isolation through concentration. Radicalized individuals would be completely separated from other prisoners to prevent their proselytism. Another possibility would be to disperse them among other prisoners in order to cut short the food of their ideological conception. Both options have their advantages and disadvantages. Above all, therefore, we must ensure that the choice made takes into account, as far as possible, the magnitude of the problem and the limitations of our organization. In all cases, it is envisaged that, where an inmate represents a serious risk in terms of radicalisation, specialized supervision will be provided. I am thinking first of therapeutic activities, not of enhanced security measures. It must be clear that radicalized individuals do not a priori pose a security problem. As with other inmates, the security risk assessment will be based on an individual assessment using a methodology recently launched by DG PPE in the form of a pilot project. Given the nature of the supervision, it is clear that additional training will be required for staff who will be in charge of psychosocial support. This will be discussed in due course with the trade unions in the training working group that I set up in Sector 3 Committee. It may also consider whether it is necessary for the supervisory staff to also receive appropriate training. I see no reason why, at this stage of the discussion, we are already considering the granting of an additional premium or special clothing for surveillance personnel in contact with radicalized inmates.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic090x.u59	Mr Minister, first of all, one important thing is that you have not closed the door to hearings. As soon as your plan is presented after the carnival leave, the PS group will ask for it to be organized. As you say, all options are open. It is wise to work seriously on this issue to avoid the worst in our prisons. You said you needed specialized coaching. I fully agree with you, except that once again I would like to hear everything, but knowing that the psychosocial teams and the supervision for all the prisoners are decreasing for reasons of budget cuts, I do not know how you will achieve your goals. Unless you tell me that the four prisons will receive additional staff to supervise these detainees, it is unthinkable that the current staff will deal only with those prisoners who engage in proselytism or other specific activities. I keep your questions because we still don't have an answer for the prison officers; it may depend on the debate we are going to have.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic090x.u60	Question No 2123 by Mrs Sabien Lahaye-Battheu is postponed, and question No 2124 by Mrs Sabien Lahaye-Battheu is transformed into a written question. Personally, I also refer my questions Nos. 2166, 2167 and 2168.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic090x.u61	Mr President, Minister, after the OffshoreLeaks and the Luxleaks, we are now discovering the SwissLeaks. At the same time, it's not new. There was already a HSBC case that saw the Special Inspectorate of Taxes being seized of a number of files. Today we are talking about 3,000 customers who would have assets in HSBC's bank accounts in Switzerland worth €6 billion. Minister, what is the status of the cases that were the subject of the first train in the HSBC case? What are the available means currently devoted to this type of file? I'm talking about the judicial level. When we know the budgetary difficulties your department is facing, the lack of resources and staff allocated to the justice system and the backlog of cases, do you not think it is urgent to review the number of specialized magistrates who could support the judges already in place? There have been a number of elements in the press over the past few days that suggest that justice is faced with a titanic task in dealing with the HSBC case.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic090x.u62	Mr President, Mr Laaouej, on July 7, 2010, the French tax administration forwarded the cd-rom to our Special Inspectorate. The legal basis was Directive 77/799 and the Treaty on the Prevention of Double Taxation between Belgium and France of 10 March 1964. These were 825 cases and the ISI took 494 cases on its behalf and forwarded the remaining 331 cases to the tax administration. Within the ISI, the 494 files were distributed among the various directorates in consultation with the regional directors and headquarters. In order to ensure a uniform approach to these cases within these directorates, regular consultations are held on the level of tax increases, notifications to the court, consultation with prosecutors and dispute management. As of 21 February 2015, 193 cases were processed at the ISI with respect to taxation with the following results. There was a revenue increase of €632,058,577 and taxes were up to €434,489,189, including an increase. For 136 of the taxpayers concerned, notifications were filed with the court on the basis of article 29, paragraph 2, of the Code of Criminal Procedure. These cases are in a fiscal and non-criminal judicial phase. As far as the criminal aspect is concerned, I should like to inform you that various cases have been opened by the Brussels Public Prosecutor's Office because of persons suspected of tax fraud, while an investigation is under way into a Swiss bank for alleged charges of serious and organised tax fraud (money laundering, criminal organisation and illegal financial intermediary). The cases opened by the Brussels Public Prosecutor's Office have, as the case may be, been investigated or closed without further action, in which case the tax administration has taken over. Criminal cases have also been opened in other public prosecutor's offices, including the Antwerp Public Prosecutor's Office. The framework of the courts of first instance in Brussels, the court of first instance in Antwerp, the court of first instance in West Flanders, East Flanders, Liège and Hainaut has been increased with a view to the appointment of the repressive judges specializing in tax matters provided for by law of 25 April 2014 laying down various provisions in matters of justice. Five judges have just been appointed: two in Brussels, one in Antwerp, one in East Flanders and one in Liège. The appointment of the judge to the Court of First Instance of West Flanders will be notified very soon, i.e. on 17 February and the vacant place in the Court of First Instance of Hainaut will be republished.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic090x.u63	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your answer. I can only draw your attention to the fact that with the new Swissleaks case, it is more than likely that the few additional judges who have been assigned following a decision, it seems to me, from the previous government - to be checked - will be insufficient. Be assured of our support if you ask for supplementary budgets to strengthen the financial sections of the various prosecutors' offices, or even the appointment of new magistrates. We will also support you if you ask for the assistance of your colleague from the Interior so that specialized police officers can also be assigned. The fight against terrorism is fundamental, but we must not forget the fight against financial crime. These two very important projects must be carried out simultaneously for different reasons, but which may be complementary in that terrorism sometimes follows opaque financial channels, which should mobilise, in particular the specialized services in money laundering.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic090x.u64	Questions Nos 2060 and 2061 by Mr Vincent Scourneau, No 2099 by Mrs Laurette Onkelinx, Nos 2166, 2167 and 2168 by Mr Philippe Goffin and Nos 2179, 2180 and 2181 by Mrs Kristien Van Vaerenbergh were postponed.
