ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic186x.u1	Mr Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, coffee is brought when the sitting begins. So we should get started as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic186x.u2	Mr. Prime Minister, in 2013 a real press conference by the Mayor of St. Lambrechts-Woluwe, Olivier Maingain, announced that he would spend the money he receives from the federal government under Article 46bis of the special law of 12 January 1989 on the Brussels institutions on free-trade propaganda in his Flemish neighboring municipality of Zaventem. You will no doubt know that these funds are distributed by the federal government among the municipalities of Brussels which include a Dutch-speaking vessel in their vessel college. These funds are therefore explicitly intended to support the Flemish contribution to the Brussels local authorities. It is of course very cynical and perfide that that money is now being used for the further painting of a Flemish municipality. It is not only cynical and perfide, it is also improperly used. A municipality can only spend its resources on projects of municipal interest, and I do not see in this context what the municipal interest for the municipality of Sint-Lambrechts-Woluwe or its inhabitants could be. It has nothing to do with promoting the interests of the inhabitants of Saint Lambrechts-Woluwe, but everything to do with the Lebensraumphilosophie of Maingain for the French-speaking, at the expense of Flemish territory. At the end of March it appeared that it was not only an announcement. In the meantime, the announcement has become a reality. Citoyens de Zaventem, a French-language leaflet, was published in Zaventem by the French-speaking non-profit association Citoyens de Zaventem. It is encouraged, among other things, to serve as much of French as possible in the Flemish municipality of Zaventem. The registered office of that association is not by chance housed at the location where services of the municipality of Sint-Lambrechts-Woluwe are also located. Given the mayor's previous statements, I don't have to draw any more. I would like a response from you to that. Will you bring this matter up with the Conciliation Committee, because the improper use of federal resources must be brought before the Brussels Government? Are you considering taking measures to contain those resources? If so, do you intend to draw up a legislative initiative to prevent such abuses in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic186x.u3	Mrs Pas, the special law of 1989 establishing the Brussels-Capital Region to which you refer was amended by the special law of 13 July 2001 on the refinancing of the Communities and the extension of the tax powers of the Regions. An article 46a was inserted which provides for special resources to be allocated by the federal government from 2002 onwards between the municipalities of the Region. During the preparatory discussions on the special law of 13 July 2001 on Article 46a, inserted by an amendment, it was explicitly stated that Article 46a translates point 9 of the Lombard Agreement and that the proposed provision does not explicitly commit the financial resources allocated to a specific destination in order to respect the autonomy of the municipalities and the budget. In other words, the federal government is not responsible for the way in which the municipalities of the Brussels-Capital Region spend the special funds allocated to them. The federal government is therefore not competent to take action in this regard. I would also ask you, if you wish, to contact the Brussels-Capital Region as a guardianship of local authorities.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic186x.u4	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your unexpected reply. These are federal funds that should be spent on pacification in Brussels, but they are being abused. It is the abuse of federal funds paid by the Flemings for at least 60%. So it is very easy umbrella policy to say that it is a matter for the Brussels region and that we have nothing to do with it. Of course we also question the competent authorities at that level, but they also apply umbrella policy and send us back here and vice versa. It remains a federal law and the resources of the Lombard agreement should be spent on the matters for which they are intended. I find it particularly regrettable that this government does not want to intervene in this respect.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic186x.u5	Mr Prime Minister, in the Flemish Parliament on 1 April, it was not a 1-April joke, I hope, by Flemish Prime Minister Geert Bourgeois, a lance broke for the withdrawal of Belgium's membership of the Organisation Internationale de la Francophonie. The argument put forward by Prime Minister Bourgeois is that this is primarily a competence of the Communities. I think he is quite right to refer to the special law of 8 August 1980 and to the Constitution. He considers it only natural that the French Community is a member of the OIF, just as the Flemish Community is a member of the Dutch Language Union. As a result, he finds it absolutely not normal for Belgium as a federal state to be a member of one of that international organisation. He therefore proposes that Belgium, as a federal state, should leave the OIF. There's a lot of logic in that reasoning. Apparently, he has also written a letter to you, Prime Minister. He would also have expressed his displeasure at the fact that the French Community is present at that OIF and elsewhere as the Fédération Wallonie-Bruxelles. This name is also used on a number of federal web sites. Moreover, this designation is not only unconstitutional but also politically and Communityly highly loaded. This gives the impression that Brussels would be a French-speaking city. Brussels is thus already annexed to Wallonia. If this government is serious, I have already understood that in order to bring Community peace and to maintain it, it seems to me that the political games of the militant francophone are not being played along. In any case, this government must ensure that that loaded designation is not used by federal authorities. My specific questions to you, Prime Minister, are as follows. Did you receive that letter from Prime Minister Bourgeois? What concerns were expressed in that regard? What follow-up have you given to the Prime Minister's writing and concerns? Do you think it is acceptable that the French Community should be a member of the OIF under the name 'Fédération Wallonie-Bruxelles' or that it should be called 'Fédération Wallonie-Bruxelles'? Will you take steps to get out of that OIF as Prime Minister Bourgeois asks? If I am not mistaken, you have already mentioned that economic issues are also being dealt with and that you do not intend to leave the organisation immediately, but I would have liked to have heard additional arguments for Belgium's membership of the OIF. In particular, I would like to know whether there is unanimity in your government on this issue. Is that what everyone thinks? Finally, do you address the question of Prime Minister Bourgeois to replace the name Fédération Wallonie-Bruxelles on all federal sites with the legally correct designation, the only one in the Constitution? If you're not going to, I'd like to know why.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic186x.u6	Mrs Pas, I have received Mr Bourgeois' letter. As regards the OIF, as I said at the plenary session on Thursday 2 April 2015, I want to be involved in that organisation which is not only cultural but also deals with diplomatic and economic issues. That was the case in Dakar at the previous General Assembly of the OIF. I would also point out that almost all the previous prime ministers have always participated in the OIF summits. So I will remain the prime minister of our country involved in the organization. As regards the name of the French-speaking institutions, although Article 2 of the Constitution recognises three Communities under the name French Community, Flemish Community and German-speaking Community, and Article 3 three Regions, namely the Flemish Region, the Walloon Region and the Brussels Region, we find that other names are common, such as Fédération Wallonie-Bruxelles for the French Community, or Flemish Government or Flanders for the Flemish institutions. In reply to the question on the membership of the French Community of the OIF under the name Fédération Wallonie-Bruxelles, it is not for the Federal Government to comment on the name which the French Community uses for itself at international level. Anyone can submit a dossier to the Consultation Committee in that regard. That is not the case today. Finally, on the website of Foreign Affairs, the Communities are listed as competent authorities on Diploma Equality, but for practical reasons, the only existing address on the federal website is the URL, i.e. the link, of the Fédération Wallonie-Bruxelles website. That is a technical matter, there is no political reasoning of the federal government in that regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic186x.u7	Mr President, I would like to thank the Prime Minister for his reply. I look forward to hearing what the Consultative Committee will do. President-in-Office of the Council. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Bourgeois has made a statement, and I think it will not be merely an announcement that the role of the Federal State in the OIF would also be discussed during the discussion of the cooperation agreements. I am therefore convinced that we will have some kind of feedback after that meeting of the Consultative Committee. Mr Prime Minister, in the light of your reply, I feel obliged to table a motion for a recommendation. Firstly, I recommend taking the necessary steps to cancel Belgium's membership in the OIF. This is because I fully endorse Prime Minister Bourgeois' argument. Secondly, I am tabling the motion to ensure that the federal authorities do not use that unconstitutional designation. You will open your umbrella again by saying that the choice of the name is a matter for the French-speaking region. However, that name is not constitutional at all. You can make sure that all references to them, independently of the URL, disappear from the federal web sites or that they are not used. Mr President, in order to encourage the government to do so, I propose a motion of recommendation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic186x.u8	The President: At the end of this discussion, the following motions were tabled. In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Barbara Pas and reads as follows: The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mrs Barbara Pas and the Prime Minister's reply, - having regard to Articles 127 and 129 of the Constitution, - having regard to Article 4 (1) of the Special Law of 8 August 1980 on the reform of the institutions, - having regard to the statements of Flemish Prime Minister Geert Bourgeois in plenary session of the Flemish Parliament of 1 April 2015 concerning the membership of Belgium of the Organisation Internationale de la Francophonie; - having regard to the request made by the Flemish Prime Minister to the Federal Government not to use in any way the unconstitutional designation "Fédération Wallonie-Bruxelles' to designate the French Community, asks the government - take the necessary steps to cancel Belgium's membership of the Organisation Internationale de la Francophonie; - ensure that federal authorities do not use the unconstitutional term "Fédération Wallonie-Bruxelles'. A motion for recommendation was tabled by Ms. Barbara Pas and reads as follows: The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Mrs Barbara Pas and the Prime Minister's response, - having regard to articles 127 and 129 of the Constitution; - having regard to Article 4(1) of the Special Act of 8 August 1980 on institutional reforms; - having regard to the statements made by Flemish Minister-President Geert Bourgeois in plenary session of the Flemish Parliament on 1 April 2015 concerning Belgium's membership of the International Organisation of la Francophonie; - having regard to the request of the Flemish Minister-President to the federal authorities not to use in any way the unconstitutional name 'Fédération Wallonie-Bruxelles' to designate the French Community, asks the government - to take the necessary steps to ensure that Belgium withdraws from the International Organisation of la Francophonie; - to ensure that no federal body uses the unconstitutional name 'Fédération Wallonie-Bruxelles'." A simple motion was tabled by Mr Philippe Pivin. A simple motion was tabled by Mr. Philippe Pivin. Motions for resolutions will be voted on at a later date b. The meeting's over. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic186x.u9	Mr Prime Minister, six months ago I asked you for an update on the practice in which former ministers still have two full-time employees. The Royal Decree of 19 July 2001 on the implementation of the policy bodies of the federal administrations and on the staff of the federal administrations, designated to be part of a cabinet of a member of a government or of a college of a Community or region, provides that the scheme is still possible whereby a minister can have two full-time staff throughout the term of office. You replied at that time that the coalition agreement did not say that this problem would be dealt with. However, you were prepared to examine proposals on this subject. The reason why I am asking for a new state of affairs rather early is because steps have been taken in the meantime in the Flemish government. A similar arrangement was and still is in force at the Flemish policy level. However, the Flemish government decided at the beginning of April 2015 to stop this scheme from 1 January 2016. That seems to me to be a very wise decision. From 1 January 2016, only former ministers who no longer have a parliamentary mandate will be able to count on one employee for a maximum of two years. The Flemish government thus saves half a million euros a year. Mr Minister, I have the following questions. First of all, can you give us a new status? Are there any changes compared to six months ago? Who makes use of this arrangement? What is the total cost of that scheme? What is the estimated cost of the scheme if it continues to exist throughout the current legislature? Secondly, will you, like the Flemish fellow Members of this House, take an initiative to abolish this arrangement from 1 January 2016 or at least in the near future? If you do not intend to do so, would I have liked to know what is stopping you from taking such an initiative?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic186x.u10	Mrs Pas, to reply exactly, I can inform you that all the members of the previous federal government have applied for full or partial use of the two full-time equivalents. We were therefore able to draw up a precise table. I can give you that table with all the details. I suppose this will be easier. For the costs, EUR 103 000 is budgeted twelve times. However, the funds may not be fully used. We'll have to wait and see. For the future, I confirm my willingness to examine a proposal, but I must acknowledge that this was not a priority during the first six to seven months of this legislature. There is still time to do so, and I therefore confirm the willingness to take a decision with the government on this for the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic186x.u11	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your willingness. The Committee on Finance is currently completing the discussions on budgetary control. You yourself mentioned the amounts. Twelve times EUR 103 000 is the maximum that can be spent on it, so there is a potential saving there. I understand that this may not have been the priority in the last six months, but it would certainly not be a bad thing for the budget to aim to develop such a scheme by 1 January 2016.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic186x.u12	Allow me to clarify that this is a solution for the next legislature. If we were to adopt amendments on this subject, they would not apply in this legislature.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic186x.u13	A new royal decision cannot therefore change that arrangement during the present legislature?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic186x.u14	It is not in the plans to change the rules during the current legislature, because that would be legally questionable, I think.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic186x.u15	We will look into that, because it seems that the Flemish Government can change the existing regime during the legislature. We will examine this together with you, and I will also examine your table in detail.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic186x.u16	Prime Minister, as is well known, Delphine Boël has been seeking recognition for the fact that she would be King Albert's extramarital daughter. The search for parental recognition has long encountered a cold and harsh refusal by the king, who has always refused any cooperation to clarify the matter. On the contrary, he has done everything in his power to conceal the truth. That is why the person concerned is now seeking to obtain that recognition by judicial means. In this context, proceedings are currently under way before the civil court of first instance in Brussels. That court has established that there may be a contradiction between the Constitution and the Civil Code. According to the Constitution, every citizen has the right to know who his parents are, but there are provisions in the Civil Code that could lead to the inadmissibility of Boël's claim before the courts. That Civil Code provides that the procedure initiated by Boël must be carried out before the age of 22 years, which is not the case. There is also the so-called possession of state. According to the court, the Constitution and those legal provisions could be conflicting. In order to resolve these issues, the Court of First Instance referred a question to the Constitutional Court for a preliminary ruling in order to determine which principles should prevail. In this context, the Court itself has, as is customary, requested an opinion from the Council of Ministers to give a position where appropriate. According to the media reports we have been able to read on this subject, the Council of Ministers has taken a clear position in favour of the King's lawyers and against the claims of Boel's lawyers. That seems to me, in view of the delicate issues, to have been a particularly uneasy choice. I think it would be wiser, when it comes to a former head of state, not to take a stand and keep to the plain or even give no advice at all. That is not an obligation at all. Prime Minister, why did the Council of Ministers feel obliged to give an opinion and intervene in such a delicate matter? Why has the Council of Ministers not kept its head down? What position has the Council of Ministers taken exactly in the opinion to the Constitutional Court? After all, the exact opinion is not necessarily the same as what is read in the press. Finally, what has prompted the Council of Ministers to take a clear position on this delicate matter in practice in favour of one of the parties?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic186x.u17	First of all, as regards the functioning of the Constitutional Court, the Constitutional Court has the power to carry out a retrospective review of legislative standards against, inter alia, fundamental rights and freedoms, as set out in Title II of the Constitution. The Court may be called upon to rule on this matter in the context of an action for annulment or of a question referred for a preliminary ruling, which is in principle required by the court if the interpretation of the legal standards is necessary for the resolution of the dispute before the court. Any institution or citizen may intervene before the Constitutional Court by written procedure. The Constitutional Court does not rule on the content of a case, but considers the constitutionality of a law. As regards the Council of Ministers of 24 April 2015, the situation is very simple and very clear: we have not had a political discussion on the matter. In fact, we have dealt with 344 cases in the Council of Ministers. It concerns one of the more than 300 cases dealt with by the Council of Ministers. When the question referred for a preliminary ruling concerns a federal law, the federal government intervenes as an institutional party in the exchange procedure between the parties, as it is responsible for federal law. Last April, the Council of Ministers, like any Council, examined the questions pending before the Constitutional Court. One of the questions concerned the Civil Code. In this context, the Council of Ministers issued a statement prepared by a lawyer, with a purely legal position stating that the federal government is not violating the Constitution. There is nothing special about this exercise: the government must intervene on a weekly basis before the Constitutional Court. As I have already explained, this is a purely legal procedure, no more or less.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic186x.u18	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. I cannot get the impression that the government is very easily putting up the umbrella on previous questions, in the sense that it does not concern its own competence and therefore moves on to other levels of policy such as the Regions, whereas it now argues in the case in question that, since it concerns federal legislation, it should take the matter to heart and give purely legal advice. It is then exactly the legal line that King Albert's lawyers follow. The court treats King Albert like an ordinary citizen. Had he been an ordinary citizen, there would have been nothing wrong with simply providing purely legal advice. But it's either one or the other. By giving advice in a case about a former head of state, the government takes a position in any case. It would have been much more prudent and wise not to interfere in it, for you are not obliged to write a statement about it. I can only observe that King Albert is not treated as an ordinary citizen and that he still has his title of king and his generous donations, which go with it. Either they treat him as an ordinary citizen for everything and then there is nothing wrong with an opinion, but as long as he is a king, who is generously collecting taxpayers' money, the government should not have involved itself in that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic186x.u19	Question No 54, by Mr De Pasquale 4206 and No. Mr Crusnière's 4266 were postponed. Debates of the European Parliament 4477 by Mrs Grovonius is also postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic186x.u20	Mr President, Prime Minister, I have asked the Ministers of Justice and the Interior twice about dismantling – because that is what this is about – extremely important investigative services in the fight against economic and financial crime, namely the Central Office for Combating Economic and Financial Crime (OECDFO) and the Federal Computer Crime Unit (FCCU). In response to these questions, the Minister of Justice stated on May 20th that the investigative capacity of OECDFO would be de-concentrated in the borough judicial branches. This is an understatement that is hardly surprising on his part. The Minister of the Interior was more explicit by stating: "The service of the OECDFO ceases to exist and is entirely deconcentrated towards borough levels." Subsequently, when I re-examined them, the two ministers adopted a starting point – it must be acknowledged – as they announced consultations with, inter alia, the College of Attorneys General. That's the least I can do. I note that this would break with your government's practice of deciding first and then consulting with those concerned. Like other stakeholders, such as Justice Claise – who spoke very clearly on the RTBF antennas on two occasions – I would like to strongly challenge these choices and ask myself about the process that led to them. Removing OECDFO would mean depriving itself of one of the most effective tools currently in the fight against financial crime. This body is an easy point of contact for the authorities of neighbouring countries. We know that financial crime has a growing international dimension. The interest of OECDFO is to develop a form of multidisciplinarity as it brings together police, tax and legal officers. It also allows for disentangled work by sending investigators to other states. Proximity can be problematic in delicate cases, especially since our territory is not very large. OECDFO also facilitates rapid action, which is essential to effectively combat financial crime. In a few days, the money involved can disappear. Finally, this unit works well with the justice system. In recent years, I have never heard criticism of the joint work of OECDFO and the judges in the fight against financial crime. Justice actors are concerned, and this legitimately. What is the reason for this decision? Is it community? Is this a return from the police war? That's what L'Echo writes. Is it a willingness to organise inefficiency in the fight against financial crime? It would be completely machiavelic. Most of all, it's not too late. There was a start of back-padding. In plenary, you were less assertive than the Minister of the Interior, in particular. However, as Prime Minister, and since, if it is made, it is a government decision, you must give a clear signal. Prime Minister, is this decision to dismantle the FCCU and especially the OECDFO final? If so, by whom and when was it taken? Is this an option for government, or for one or two ministers? What justifies the government's change of position regarding its commitment not to interfere with the capacity to investigate and intervene in the fight against corruption, serious forms of economic and financial crime and ICT crime? I quote an excerpt from the Minister of the Interior's general policy note. What bodies have been consulted on this project to dismantle OECDFO and the FCCU? Has the College of Attorneys General been questioned on the subject? What was his reaction? Were the judges directly concerned by this decision questioned? I feel like I don't, since they have to speak through the media. Will they be and will their opinion be taken into account? It is not, as in other cases, a question of asking for the opinion and then acting exactly as was originally decided. Who will now be the contact point for foreign states in cases related to financial crime and computer crime, if you confirm your intention to dismantle these two services? In the same way, how will the interdisciplinarity and specialization of federal intervention services be ensured in highly technical cases? To what extent will the usefulness – and sometimes the need – of having recourse in some particularly sensitive cases to investigators from other judicial districts and particularly specialized ones be taken into account? These are my questions in this inquiry, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic186x.u21	Mr President, honourable Member, what you call dismantling is actually a plan to reshape services. It is therefore not a question of reducing the capacity and willingness to pursue all forms of fraud. Let me make a few points in an attempt to present the situation in an objective and unbiased manner. Article 24 of the Act of 26 March 2014 – a law that was passed under the previous government – provides for measures to optimize the police services and, in particular, amends Article 105 of the Act of 7 December 1998 which organizes an integrated police service, structured on two levels. This article provides that, since 1 October 2014, the date of entry into force of this provision, in matters of organised economic and financial crime, tax and social fraud, and ICT crime, research units have been set up within the five most important deconcentrated judicial directorates, namely those of Antwerp, Brussels, Charleroi-Mons, East Flanders and Liège. In accordance with the law of 2014 – not the law initiated by this majority – which was decided in the framework of the law on the organisation of police services, the government is working, with the police services making proposals, on the establishment in the jurisdictions of the courts of appeal of multidisciplinary investigation teams, called MOTEM (multidisciplinair onderzoeksteam / multidisciplinary investigation team). In this context, it is envisaged that the Central Office for Combating Organized Economic and Financial Crime will be deconcentrated to the benefit of the judicial districts. It is therefore not a question of removing existing means, as you are trying to make it believe in a systematic way, but of organizing in a different way the means that are mobilised. To quote, as you have done, my colleague the Minister of the Interior, "the investigative capacity must be where the King's prosecutors are competent". This is the sense of the optimisation proposed by the police services. You have taken up the remarks made by the Minister of the Interior by biasing them. If it is envisaged to abolish the service in its present form, there is no question of calling into question existing means. The deconcentrated units will be responsible for specialized investigations and, in particular, for participating in joint multidisciplinary investigation teams. A deliberate royal decree in the Council of Ministers is still under discussion. There have not yet been any intercabinets on the subject. We will start the process of discussion within the government and this royal decree will have to lay down the modalities of coordination, direction, effective engagement. Consultation with all relevant agencies should take place. It is partly ongoing and will have to be prosecuted. Finally, as the Minister of Justice has said, this pooling of resources requires a lot of preparation, including a clear and detailed framework. The same applies to the management and exchange of information between the various members of the multidisciplinary teams as well as at the international level. Good preparation is therefore a critical factor for success. This requires time and good agreements between all parties. To be quite clear, the Ministers of the Interior, of Justice and I say exactly the same thing. There is indeed a project - within the framework of the 2014 law - initiated by the police services. There is preparatory work. There is no formal decision from a legal point of view and the government will take the necessary options in the coming weeks. I now come to the Federal Computer Crime Unit (FCCU). The optimisation of federal police services also leads to this logic of deconcentration of investigative means. It is also a reflection carried out by the Federal Police Steering Committee with the Office of the Minister of the Interior. For the rest, it is well understood that the hope is that the FCCU will retain its competencies in support of the RCCU, research and development, and the role of a point of contact in the federal government. In addition, as the Minister of the Interior had already indicated, the new organisational table provides for an increase in the number of staff for the Federal Computer Crime Unit. This is the demonstration that we are going in the opposite direction to what you seem to want to indicate. I can assure you that my cabinet, the ministers concerned and I take these issues extremely seriously. We want to make the right decisions because the will is indeed to strengthen efficiency and capacity, not to dismantle services that work, but to dismantle fraudulent organizations! This is our approach to this important issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic186x.u22	Prime Minister, after having asked the Ministers of the Interior and Justice twice, after having had contact with various actors on the ground in my parliamentary work, I think I am presenting the situation objectively. I quoted the words of the Minister of the Interior, even though he later retracted. OECDFO ceases to exist. That's what he told me two weeks ago. You present this potential decision – I have taken note that it has not yet been taken and I hope that there will be an adjustment to the original intentions – as a result of a law passed under the previous majority. I was in this committee in front of Mrs Milquet at that time and I pointed out, as soon as the articles on MOTEM were studied, both the value of a decentralised investigative capacity and the need to maintain central services sufficiently powerful according to the arguments I have cited. The law, if it permits, does not decide on the dismantling of the central investigation units. It is essential to maintain at the central level of the federal state, in a country that is not so large, an effective multidisciplinary team of front-line in the fight against financial crime, supporting decentralized units. You were more careful than the Minister of the Interior in his initial remarks. You say: "It is envisaged of... ", "There have not yet been intercabinets meetings on the subject", "It is still under discussion". Well, we'll judge on a piece. If, in fact, the initial intention to dismantle OECDFO and the FCCU is confirmed at the end of the work within the government, it can only be concluded that the majority's comments on the importance of combating financial crime are not credible. I clearly challenge you in this regard. I hope, through my questions, that I have made you aware of the subject, as well as the Minister of Justice and the Minister of the Interior, but I still wonder about the real intentions. At the end of this inquiry, I tabled a motion for a recommendation, which clearly calls on the government to abandon its plan to dismantle OECDFO and the FCCU and, on the contrary, to provide these bodies with sufficient resources in the fight against financial crime, which each year costs billions of euros to public finances and undermines the confidence of our citizens in the functioning of the state and in tax justice and, in general, to make the fight against financial crime a real priority. It's not enough to talk nicely, sometimes with your hand on your heart. There is a need for concrete action. However, while I am as objective as possible and observing things very carefully, unfortunately I do not see this in the head of your government's action.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic186x.u23	In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. A motion for recommendation was tabled by Mr. Georges Gilkinet and reads as follows: The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Mr Georges Gilkinet and the Prime Minister's response, asks the government 1. to abandon its plan to dismantle OECDFO and the FCCU; 2. Provide OECDFO with sufficient resources to further improve its role as an international interlocutor, support for judicial services, rapid response to financial crime and a decentralized multidisciplinary body; 3. to make the fight against tax fraud and financial crime a real priority and to provide sufficient resources for all the links in the chain: tax, police and judicial services. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr Georges Gilkinet and reads as follows: The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mr Georges Gilkinet and the Prime Minister's reply, calls on the Government 1. refrain from its plans to dismantle the CDGEFID and the FCCU; 2. to provide the CDGEFID with the necessary resources to enable it to play its role as an international point of contact, its role in supporting judicial services, its role as a rapid response service to financial crime, and its role as a decentralised multidisciplinary body; 3. to consider the fight against tax fraud and financial crime as a priority and to give sufficient resources to all actors in the field: tax authorities, police forces and judicial services." A simple motion was tabled by Mr. Philippe Pivin. A simple motion was tabled by Mr Philip ppe Pivin. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic186x.u24	Mr President, Prime Minister, my attention was drawn to an article published in the newspaper La Province on May 26, which said: "Belgian section of the SHAPE school: soon the end?" In this article, we learned that Walloon MP MR Georges-Louis Bouquez would question Minister Joëlle Milquet about delays in funding this project. You're smiling already! I would like to quote my Liberal colleague, whom I know well: "What worries me about this is not seeing anything progress. The federal government and the Wallonia-Brussels Federation must provide EUR 12 million to both. We know the federal government agrees. On the other hand, we don't know about Wallonia." It's not Wallonia, but let's go. There are a few small errors on the figures, since it is not 12 million euros, I think, but 14 million according to my information (12 million federal and 2 million Wallonia-Brussels). I do not hide my astonishment at the accuracy of the information available or would be available to my Liberal colleague in this regard because, to my knowledge, the Wallonia-Brussels Federation has never shown bad will. On the contrary, many steps have been taken towards your services, which seems to have remained unanswered. In this regard, I should like to echo the press release issued by the SETCA on 28 May, which states that you have not responded to their letter dated 29 April 2015. Prime Minister, I have already asked you twice about SHAPE files. You will agree with me that, given the importance of these and of the reconstruction of the SHAPE school, any controversy must be avoided so that we, together, concentrate on their good progress. Could you, therefore, in the interests of transparency, take stock of the progress of this dossier?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic186x.u25	Mr President, Mr Thiébaut, allow me first of all a small reminder to understand the retroacts of this important dossier. There is no question of polemicing on a subject such as this one. At the beginning of 2000, SHAPE asked Belgium, and then the other nations, to rebuild the SHAPE international school. In 2007, nations accepted the United States as the project manager. In June 2008, the United States presented a pre-design study. At that time, the project for Belgium is estimated at around EUR 15 million, out of a total of EUR 117 million. On 13 November 2009, the Council of Ministers approved the Belgian participation but limited the contribution for the design study to 200 000 euros paid from the Foreign Affairs budget. Defence is designated as the Belgian coordinating authority for the project. Two Belgium-USA-SHAPE agreements divide the project into two parts: the reconstruction of the USA school, on the one hand, by May 2010, and the reconstruction of the other schools, on the other hand, in April 2012. Construction of the U.S. primary section began in January 2012 on available land. The secondary part, which began in 2013, required the relocation and destruction of the Belgian section, which has been hosted since September 2012 in a temporary infrastructure (containers) leased and financed by the United States from July 2012 to June 2014, for an amount of €5.4 million, including a move. On April 11, 2011, SHAPE proposed the project of a MoU (memorandum of understanding) Design and Construction, which concerns only the non-USA part. The Belgian section is planned for 450 pupils and the cost for Belgium, including common and multinational infrastructures, is estimated at 17 million euros. An extrapolation to a capacity of 600 students would raise this amount to about €22 million. On July 28, 2011, Prime Minister Yves Leterme proposed to the Minister-President of the French Community that the Federal State should bear 62% of the costs and the French Community the remaining 38% on the basis of a capacity of 450 students. This proposal was rejected by the French Community, which recalled its requirement for a capacity of 600 pupils. The MoU Design and Construction was signed by 19 nations, without Belgium, on 9 October 2012. After negotiations, the Council of Ministers decided, on 19 December 2013, to join the project for a maximum total amount of EUR 14 million, the EUR 200 000 paid in 2009 not included, of which the Federal State is responsible for a maximum of EUR 12 million. The agreement provides that the federal government will bear the costs of rebuilding the school for a capacity of 450 students. The French Community is responsible for the construction costs necessary to cover the difference in cost between 450 and 600 pupils, i.e. around EUR 2 million excluding VAT. The French Community will ensure that the cost of reconstruction is maintained within the limits of this total amount and will continue to bear the costs of teaching the Belgian section. I am thinking of teachers' salaries, operating allowances, etc. The Council of Ministers of 14 March 2014 appointed the French Community to continue the management of the project and requested to notify SHAPE of the decision to participate for a maximum amount of EUR 14 million. I shall keep the details of the notification at your disposal, if you so wish. In accordance with the Decision, a Memorandum of Cooperation between the Federal State and the French Community is drawn up. This project was forwarded to my predecessor on 22 April 2014, but was not processed. In other words, no cooperation agreement has been concluded at this time. This means that the Prime Minister is always competent by default. I want to be very clear about this and to confirm what your good Liberal colleague has said. The federal government is ready to honour the commitment, which was made at a previous Council of Ministers, of EUR 12 million. In two days' time, my cabinet will meet with representatives of the French Community to see how we can reactivate the process. With regard to the appointment request expressed by the SETCA, a date was indeed proposed. I think the appointment should be set for the end of the month. Like you, I do not think there is any need to argue about this. We will see how decisions can be taken together in the interests of the country in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic186x.u26	Prime Minister, I thank you for the reassuring words that I will convey directly to my Comrade Boucher and to the SETCA.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic186x.u27	Mr President, Prime Minister, the press has come back in detail on what is expected to be an important issue in the field of espionage, since it covers the activities of the German intelligence services against its European partners, for the benefit of the Americans. Among the lines listened to, a dozen came from Belgium. This is, of course, a very delicate issue that requires a clear and firm response from the government. It also shows that the issue of the security of telecommunications networks is of primary importance and that the Belgian Cybersecurity Centre is a strategic emergency. Prime Minister, what are the Belgian people, institutions or companies who have been the object of these taps? What actions has the government taken with regard to our German neighbours following the discovery of these wiretappings? What is the status of the effective establishment of the Belgian Cybersecurity Centre? We are promised the recruitment of management by mid-June, but this does not say much at the beginning of its activities, considering that the DG alone will not be of great help, whatever their qualities.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic186x.u28	Mr President, Prime Minister, my questions go in the same direction, even if they are slightly different. Indeed, the US National Security Agency asked the German intelligence services (BND) to spy on 15 communication flows through Germany, via trade and technical agreements linking Belgacom, at the time, to Deutsche Telekom. Ten channels were managed by Belgacom, which in the meantime became Proximus. There is no longer the number of times that Belgian interests have been the target of such surveillance in recent years, often because of the United States, but not just because of it. We are also talking about China and Russia. Belgium has never yet reacted firmly and decisively, Mr Frédéric, including during the Di Rupo era. Recent events show that now not only the European allies are spying on each other, but also for the benefit of the United States. Prime Minister, my questions are as follows. I have already asked a series of rather technical questions to Mr. De Croo, on how Belgacom maintains commercial and technical links with Deutsche Telekom. Today, that's not the point. Today, the question is political and it is addressed to you. Mr Prime Minister, is this umpteenth episode now encouraging you to be more cautious in pursuing the ongoing negotiations of the Transatlantic Treaty, knowing that our American partners here clearly enjoy a strategic, economic and political advantage by illegally having major economic and political information, which Europeans do not benefit from with regard to the American negotiating partner? What initiatives have you taken at the bilateral level to make known to our German ally, an extremely important economic and political ally, our anger at these immoral and illegal practices? Are you considering convening the ambassadors of the United States and Germany? Mr. Di Rupo didn't do it at the time. Let us remember that in March 2014, he received President Barack Obama in great pomp, without even addressing the issue of listening. Finally, Prime Minister, what initiatives do you intend to take at multilateral level to put on the table a forthcoming European Council, the problem of internal espionage in the European Union?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic186x.u29	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the investigation into Proximus-Belgacom is still under way. You asked Alexander De Croo some questions. So I'm not going back to that point. We are awaiting the development of the investigation. As far as possible listening to our German neighbours, I can give you some information. First, the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office has opened judicial information on the basis of a State Security Report. This is an ongoing matter and I do not want to give any more elements in this Parliament, for obvious reasons of separation of powers, which you can understand. Moreover, on the German side, the Bundestag is currently pursuing hearings on this subject. You are certainly also informed of this. Finally, Minister De Croo confirmed that the IBPT has also started an investigation into possible incidents of listening by the German secret services. Several meetings in this regard are planned for the coming weeks. Unfortunately, it is not possible for me to determine when the investigation will be completed. However, I will be extremely clear and answer precisely the questions that are addressed to me. In the light of the developments in the investigations currently under way, the Belgian Government will decide on the attitude to be adopted in this case, which I take seriously. To put it even more clearly and precisely, if these facts were to be proved, they would obviously be unacceptable and would lead to serious problems. I would add that the initiatives that I can take on the basis of the surveys are both bilaterally and multilaterally. Of course, the European Council could be the place to address these issues. It is not acceptable that partners with whom trust should prevail should proceed in this way. My Government's position would be extremely firm if it were to appear during the investigation that these facts would be proven. As far as cybersecurity is concerned, as I have said on several occasions in Parliament, the recruitment procedure for the Director and his deputy will be completed in June, from one day to the next. This will make it possible to launch operationally all the tasks assigned to the Belgian Cybersecurity Centre, on the basis of the regulations adopted and published at the end of last year.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic186x.u30	Prime Minister, thank you for your answer. I understand that a judicial investigation is under way and I do not dispute this fact. We have to let justice do its job. I understand that the Bundestag is conducting hearings on the subject. We may come to conclusions at some point. I fear, however, that, despite the judicial information currently under way, in a few months' time, we are not talking about it. All this could evaporate into nature. On the other hand, Prime Minister, you have firmly stated that, if these investigations were to lead to successful results and reveal that our European partners have tapped us, you would take action. I didn't hear them. Of course, this could be discussed at a bilateral meeting or at the European Council, but I think it will be important to be very firm. It is unacceptable for a partner as close as our German neighbour. As far as the Belgian Cybersecurity Centre is concerned, I understand that the director will arrive, as well as his deputy. All right! But we will not be able to limit ourselves to this announcement, even if they are two! Of course, it's nice, but we may be a little out of touch with technologies and cybercriminals. I would therefore ask you to transmit to me a timetable for the implementation of this cell with statements other than that according to which the director and his deputy will arrive, because this seems a little light.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic186x.u31	Mr Frédéric, the timetable has been communicated to Parliament. You can be given this detailed information, including the dates that were already communicated to Parliament several months ago on this subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic186x.u32	Thank you!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic186x.u33	Mr President, I thank the Prime Minister for his answer. You will agree that with friends like these, there is no need for enemies! They're our closest allies. If it were proved - and you will therefore be questioned in the future to verify the results of this investigation - it will be a matter of taking the firm measures you have mentioned, including the cessation of the negotiations on this transatlantic agreement, which, if proven, is being negotiated under influence. With regard to the cybersecurity strategy, the first thing that is striking in this case is that it is not the installation of a microphone, backdoor or hardware element in a server at Belgacom that explains the leak, but a commercial and technical agreement between Belgacom and Deutsche Telekom allowing the capture by secret services of information flows through German territory. In the cybersecurity strategy you will establish in the coming months, you will have to screen all the commercial and technical agreements that Belgacom has concluded with other operators to prevent this type of leak from happening again and information from being passed on to secret services, they were friendly countries. You are trying to appear as the defender of the Belgian business world; I am sorry, but what Belgian companies communicate with each other and with their subsidiaries must not end up in the hands of American or German economic opponents, no matter what! Belgium must be able to preserve its economic fabric. Since the economy has become digital, it requires information flows such as these. We will therefore remain attentive and interrogate you again.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic186x.u34	Mr Prime Minister, a few weeks ago we were allowed to see the award ceremony of the Queen Elisabeth competition. In the official documents and the communication on this subject, we could read that the fourth prize awarded is the prize of the Community governments of Belgium. This year it was offered by the government of the Walloon-Brussels Federation. As we all know, I have just referred to it in my interplay, and there is no government in Belgium of the Walloon-Brussels federation, and the use of that name undermines the Community peace which this government claims to be very much in favour of. The organisation of the Queen Elisabeth competition is in the hands of a non-profit organisation, but there is still quite a federal involvement. I am not talking about the fact that this organization is under the High Protection of Her Majesty Queen Mathilde, but about the substantial subsidy granted from the federal level for that competition. Prime Minister, what is the financial contribution of the federal government to that organisation? I would have liked an overview of that. Secondly, do you think it is acceptable that that organisation uses in its communication names of state governments which do not exist in the Belgian legal order? If not, what will you do about it? I hope that you will not reply, as with my conversation, that the Regions are free to choose their name. I would like to take this opportunity to reword my question to which I have not received an answer, in particular whether your position is shared by the entire government. After all, I note that Members of your coalition partners have already asked Minister Reynders to take action to ensure that the competition in the future will respect the standard names set out in the Constitution. So we are not alone in our question, and I am very interested in your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic186x.u35	Mrs. Pas, it's an interesting question. (...) established Queen Elisabeth competition is organized by the non-profit association with the same name. That self-employed association shall be managed by a Management Board and an Executive Board. Only the association is responsible for the communication. With regard to the financing of the association, I can tell you that most of the financial resources come from the sale of tickets and subscriptions. The association also receives various gifts from private donors and can count on the support of sponsors. The association does not receive any recurrent institutional subsidies. However, the different levels of policy traditionally contribute to the award of prizes to the first six laureates. During the most recent edition of the competition in May 2015, the second prize was offered by the Belgian federal government via the POD Belgian Science Policy BELSPO for an amount of 20 000 euros. The fourth prize worth 12 500 euros was financed by the Belgian Community Governments. The fifth prize of EUR 10 000 and the sixth prize of EUR 8 000 were offered this year by the Brussels Capital Government and the city of Brussels respectively. The Queen Elisabeth competition was also offered an amount of 4,000 euros by the National Lottery. So I am very transparent about funding. In the context of the Queen Elisabeth Contest, as in the context of other cultural or international events, it is established that names other than those laid down in the Constitution are used for the Communities. This is the case for the French Community, which uses the name Fédération Wallonie-Bruxelles, as well as for the Flemish Community, which supports the competition under the name Flemish government.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic186x.u36	Thank you, Prime Minister, for the transparency of the financing of this competition. It is certainly not a small amount for the organizing association that she receives from the federal government. It would be a small effort if the federal government asked the question to use the standardized names in all their.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Prime Minister, I note that I do not get an answer to the question whether everyone in the government feels the same. I am very interested in voting on my motion of recommendation in plenary next week. Your answer to this question has shown once again that this motion of recommendation is more than necessary.
