ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-04-54-commissie-ic081x.u1	Debates of the European Parliament Question No 16, by Mrs Smeyers: Question No 16, by Mrs Becq, Question No 1646 Question No 1651 by Mrs Grovonius Mrs De Wit's 1777 will be converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-04-54-commissie-ic081x.u2	Minister, last week you visited the Merksplas prison. You have been able to see for yourself how much safety and hygiene have been done. Yesterday there was the news that the European Court of Justice condemned Belgium because four internees were housed in Merksplas. They are allocated EUR 15 000 each. All this shows that something urgently needs to be done about that prison. The structure of the building and the protection as a monument require a special approach to the site. That is why the Council of Ministers apparently follows a two-track policy in the master's plans. There would be a new building, with 440 places, and there would be renovation of the existing penal facility. An up-to-date question in plenary revealed that the Minister responsible for the Government of the Buildings intends to carry out the master plans meticulously. The division into a new building and restoration of the current building offer the opportunity to diversify the level of security in Merksplas, so that an economically acceptable solution can be found. Mr Minister, do you share, first of all, the view that there is an urgent need for investment in Merksplas' penal system? Secondly, can you confirm that there is a two-track policy for the site, with both new construction and renovation? Thirdly, is there already a view on the target audience, and thus security level, in the renovated and the new parts respectively? Fourthly, has the site's design plans been started? Fifth, can you display a timing or a phaser? Sixthly, are you planning consultations with the local authorities and the local stakeholders?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-04-54-commissie-ic081x.u3	Mr Wilrycx, I did indeed visit the Merksplas facility last week, and I found out with my own eyes that there is a very good working atmosphere and a lot of good will among the staff, but also that there is still work to be done, especially in the field of infrastructure. Merksplas' file was included in masterplan I and II. The government agreement clearly states that the government will implement the existing master plans and that there will be a master plan III, which will evaluate the plans and adapt them where necessary. The master plan III will be presented to the Council of Ministers and is not yet final. Merksplas is an important part of the plan. The most feasible slope will be considered: complete or partial renovation, additional new construction or a combination of both. The setting of Merksplas is of course retained as a project. The great historical value of the buildings, their protection as a monument and their location in a protected natural landscape require a special consideration, not least because of the budgetary impact. On the other hand, the vast site also offers prospects for a re-entry vote for categories of detainees in need of specific care. Today, the population of Merksplas is already largely interned, but there are also convicts imprisoned with sentences up to 10 years. Without new construction and renovation, the number of prisoners is too high for the moment to offer adequate shelter, accommodation and care. It can therefore be considered to include fewer prisoners in Merksplas. In this way, more quality of life could be offered to interned and/or convicted persons with a long stay in detention, given the uniqueness of the site. All these aspects will be taken into account when drawing up a proposal for a project, which will be included in the master plan III and which will then be submitted to the Council of Ministers for approval. Only then will I be able to give you more details about the project, on which I will, of course, consult all those involved and governments.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-04-54-commissie-ic081x.u4	So, Minister, I am in happy expectation of the master plan III. After all, it is very important for our municipality and the whole region to continue to have a criminal justice system there in the future. Yesterday I saw on the subject that there is protest in Haren against the construction of the new prison. Well, as mayor of Merksplas, I can assure you that you will be welcomed with your prison with open arms. We are grateful for a great deal of employment. Merksplas is the most important employer in the municipality. I therefore hope that contacts between the federal and local authorities will remain optimal, as was the case in the past. So we look forward to the master plan III.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-04-54-commissie-ic081x.u5	Minister, I had already addressed the question to Secretary of State Francken, but he told me that you are competent to do so. That's why I'm asking you the question. The Secretary of State wants salafistic imams to be screened better. He even says it should be impossible for those imams to get residence papers. He mainly fishes countries such as Qatar and Saudi Arabia. When an imam applies for a residence permit, the prior advice of the State Security is always requested. Secretary of State Francken says the problem is there. I quote him: 'The problem is that the State security authorities often do not know those people and therefore do not object.' Therefore, the Secretary of State is considering asking for additional advice from the OCAD on those persons. According to the Secretary of State, therefore, there is clearly something wrong with the operation of the State's security or, where appropriate, with the procedure used by that service. Minister, where is the problem? Should anything be changed about the procedure or the functioning of the State's own security? Can you clarify that? Should there be other measures? Is additional advice already being requested from the OCAD on the residence permit of those persons?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-04-54-commissie-ic081x.u6	Mrs Temmerman, as far as your first two questions are concerned, foreign imams who come to Belgium for a short period of time to preach here are indeed controlled differently from the imams who are associated with a mosque in Belgium. In order to clarify this, let me briefly outline the procedure. When a foreign imam refers to imam's activities as a reason for his visa application, Foreign Affairs asks the Foreign Affairs Department for advice, which in turn asks for advice from the Security of the State. If the person is in a negative way known to State Security, for example because of extremist statements or views, the relevant information shall be rapidly transmitted. However, the information available to the State's security is limited, as the service is only active on Belgian territory and therefore does not engage in any activities abroad. In other words, his relevant information comes from foreign correspondents and/or informants. Another common problem is that foreign services provide a different reason for a stay in their visa application, so that the services concerned do not request information from the State Security. The more precise the consular services and the DVZ document the visa application files, the quicker the State Security can of course transmit relevant information. As for your third question, there can be no obligation to seek additional advice from the OCAD, for the simple reason that that service is a threat assessment body and not an intelligence service. The OCAD's mission is to determine the level of threat and therefore has nothing to do with providing information that might be useful in controlling foreign imams.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-04-54-commissie-ic081x.u7	Thank you, Minister, for the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-04-54-commissie-ic081x.u8	Mr President, Minister, last year the Ekeren Police moved to a new building. Since then, the old building has been free to fill a new function. That building is included in the permanent list of the valuable, unprotected heritage. From information received through the district of Ekeren, it appears that the peace court is a party asking to be rehoused in Ekeren, as was the case in the Veltwijcklaan until 1974. Already in 2011, the FPS Justice showed interest in a re-housing of the peace court in Ekeren. The Government of the Buildings has also recently announced that they are still waiting for a possible location for the 11th Canton peace court. For Ekeren, this is a very important file. This relocation is very important because it contributes to the provision of services to citizens and at the same time would be a nice match for the building in the centre that is now unused. Minister, I would like to ask you the following questions. Is there any certainty that the peace process will re-enter Ekeren? Have any inspections been carried out to see if the building is suitable? If yes, what are the findings? If not, when will this happen?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-04-54-commissie-ic081x.u9	Mr Klaps, as you know, a new law on the housing of the peace courts has been in force since 1 January 2014. As an annex to the law, there is a list of all peace courts. That van Ekeren is listed as category three, "to be abandoned." This is perhaps partly due to a less favourable location, on the edge of the port area. An alternative offer has indeed been made recently. In the meantime, the building was visited by the competent departments of the Government of the Buildings and Justice. The building has a number of advantages and a number of advantages, but significant work is needed. This possibility is still being examined. A final decision has yet to be taken.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-04-54-commissie-ic081x.u10	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I hope that the decision-making process in this area will not take too long, so that people in the congregation know what is going on. If the works weren't bad, it would be a very nice location for the peace court.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-04-54-commissie-ic081x.u11	Mr President, Minister, on 9 December last, in this Committee on Justice, you announced, in accordance with the government's general policy note, that the vacant places in the judicial districts of Brussels and Hainaut would be published by the end of December, i.e. by the end of 2014. Indeed, on 18 December 2014, the vacant places in Brussels to implement the 6th reform of the State were published, as were the vacant places in Mons and Charleroi. This publication does not, however, regulate the fate of other judicial districts. Nor does it address the structural deficit for judicial staff costs since, according to the estimates of the Budget and Control of the Management Service of the SPF Justice, the appropriations granted for non-judicial staff would be used to partially offset the deficits of judicial staff. The president of the College of Courts and Courts, Jean-Louis Desmecht, estimates that the reduction of staff costs by 4% in 2015 and then by 2% per year will lead to a shortage of magistrates reaching 350 posts at headquarters in 2019. According to the King's Prosecutor's Council, approximately 11.6 per cent of prosecutors'officers are still not filled. Therefore, can the Minister inform me whether this publication has not come too late for posts which will for the most part be free as from 1 March 2015 in respect of the judicial districts of Brussels and Hainaut? When will vacant places in other boroughs that also have a significant backlog, such as Liège, be published? Which boroughs and/or jurisdictions are considered to be priorities for recruitment? On the basis of what criteria? The appropriation allocated to the remuneration of judges for 2015 is in fact €265 million, while 286 million is needed to recruit and pay all judges in the country. When will Members become aware of the Finance Inspectorate's opinion on judicial recruitment?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-04-54-commissie-ic081x.u12	Mr President, Mr Maingain, I refer to the previous questions on the situation of courts and tribunals, dealt with at the meetings of your committee on 14, 21 and 28 January 2015. I am well aware of this problem. That is why I am currently meeting personally, both at the level of the Public Prosecutor's Office and at the headquarters level, all the heads of corps to discuss recruitment priorities and to decide on the order of emergency of the vacant posts to be filled within their jurisdiction. I found it appropriate to invite also the chief clerks and the chief secretaries. I asked the Chiefs of Staff to provide an update on the current situation of the staff and their views on how to fill vacancies for magistrates and judicial personnel, taking into account the budgetary context and the cost of recruitment. These discussions with the Chiefs of Staff and the needs analysis are likely to take a few more weeks, as follow-up meetings may be required. In the meantime, of course, I am doing everything I can to ensure that the courts and tribunals can continue to function. The holidays were published at the end of 2014. I also intend to publish a hundred vacations in the near future, which could not be filled and honoured in 2014, due to the lack of candidates.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-04-54-commissie-ic081x.u13	Minister, I hear you're in the process of taking stock of the situation. However, I assume that the FPS Justice already has an inventory of vacant places. I will send you a written question to find out the inventory of all the places currently vacant, judicial district by judicial district. Given that you still need a few weeks to complete the assessment and priority setting work, I will ask you again what you have decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-04-54-commissie-ic081x.u14	Mr. President, Minister, your government agreement provides for the promotion of legal protection insurance. It is essential to make justice accessible to the entire population, in any case under certain conditions. It is not a question of promoting the use of justice in an abusive manner. With this in mind, we defended the idea of using solidarity between citizens by promoting, for example, fiscally, insurance coverage for legal protection. In the presentation of the Justice in Committee budget on 9 December 2014, which provides for the modernisation of second-line legal aid within the limits of a closed budget, you mentioned a meeting with the insurance sector, and in particular their representative agency Assuralia, in the second half of December. Mr. Minister, can you let me know the outcome of this meeting and the follow-up that you intend to make available to me? How can the promotion of legal protection insurance, according to Assuralia, be effective? Would legal protection insurance become compulsory depending on the type of litigation covered? Is the tax deductibility of the amount paid as a legal protection insurance premium always preferred? If so, under what conditions?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-04-54-commissie-ic081x.u15	Mr President, Mr Maingain, I did indeed have an interview, which I would call very constructive, with Assuralia. We agreed to meet again in the short term to continue the realization of this first exchange of views. The next meeting will take place on 10 February. Insurers' representatives highlighted the challenges they face in the development and promotion of legal protection insurance. In particular, they seek ways of providing quality assurance at an affordable but cost-effective cost, taking into account the customer's knowledge of the risks. We will continue, in consultation with the sector, to further examine how the supply can be expanded and how the police can be made more attractive. It would be useful, for example, for individuals, at key stages in their lives – marriage, home purchase, cohabitation, etc. – be informed of the importance of legal protection insurance. Compulsory legal protection insurance as well as a new tax deduction are not provided for in the government agreement, but these paths should not be ruled out a priori, because they deserve reflection.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-04-54-commissie-ic081x.u16	Minister, we will continue the reflection and ask you again about it in a short time, probably after your next meeting with Assuralia. That being said, this is an old debate, which has come regularly to this committee. Your predecessors had already mentioned this theme on several occasions, without ever stopping a course of action. I understand that the government agreement does not provide for the obligation to take out such an insurance policy or the tax deductibility of the premium, but you do not exclude it. I hope that these are not statements of circumstance that, by being repeated minister after minister, make that no solution is ever found. That is why I dare to believe that you will be committed to promoting a legal system of solidarity. This is only one of the options, as others could complement it. In any case, it seems to me that if we can cover ourselves in terms of risks by other insurance policies, it should be promoted, in particular as a tax measure.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-04-54-commissie-ic081x.u17	Mr President, Minister, I come back here to a recent news event that has been echoed in the press. As others have done, I was questioning you on 14 January about the transfer of an inmate to the Netherlands. I will not go back to well-known facts. However, on the occasion of your answer, you suggested that this transfer was justified by strictly medical reasons. Indeed, you stated that "for medical reasons arising from the professional secrecy of the treating doctors, they decided to stop the euthanasia procedure which had been organised in the context of the judgment of the Brussels Court of Appeal and which endorsed an agreement between the Belgian State and the person concerned on the facilitation of the euthanasia procedure". The daily newspaper Le Soir, in its January 24 edition, mentions a completely different version, namely that you had gone – but perhaps he was a member of your cabinet – to Turnhout prison on January 5 to finalize the agreement between the person concerned and the Belgian State avoiding euthanasia. So you would have played an active role – perhaps you even met the person concerned – in this decision instead of treating doctors as stated in the press and in committee a few days earlier. Admit that there is something to be questioned by your answer, if not somewhat truncated, in any case, incomplete, in committee. Do you confirm the information given by the daily Le Soir in its January 24 edition? Who made the transfer decision? The Social Defence Commission, yourself, the doctors? Have you played an active role in the proceedings even if, formally, the decision has been taken by others? Will the transfer of this intern to a legal psychiatry centre be followed by further transfers? Are you called upon to know other situations in your personal capacity and, possibly, to give instructions in the same way as you dealt with the case in question? I do not mention the name of the person concerned, but everyone knows what situation in fact I am referring to.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-04-54-commissie-ic081x.u18	Mr Maingain, the applicant's request for euthanasia was the subject of decisions of the Brussels Court of Appeal, to which the Belgian State and the applicant were parties. In September 2014, a decree of agreement signed by my predecessor, by which the State declared itself ready to transfer this person to an external hospital for his euthanasia. Since the doctors have not found any civilian hospital that is willing to allow euthanasia to occur within its institution, I have stated that I am prepared to facilitate euthanasia in the hospital wing of the Bruges prison on January 11, 2015. On 5 January 2015, Mr. Van Den Bleeken was informed that doctors who would practice and accompany euthanasia were no longer willing to follow up on his request. Indeed, a meeting had been scheduled for those dates, on 5 January in the Turnhout settlement, with a view to making practical arrangements for the execution of euthanasia on 11 January 2015. This is the reason why a representation of the cabinet was present that day in Turnhout prison. I decided not to allow him to stay in Turnhout prison but to transfer him to the legal psychiatry centre in Ghent on the basis of article 17, paragraph 2, of the 1930 law. These decisions are based on the fact that the person concerned was confronted quite abruptly with a new view from the doctors. The impact of this decision on the person concerned, of which I personally put Mr. Van Den Bleeken on 6 January, should not be underestimated. Examination of his mental condition at the legal psychiatry centre in Ghent seemed to me to be the only correct decision. That is why I ordered this transfer taking into account the welfare of the person concerned. In accordance with article 17, paragraph 2, of the 1930 Act, I informed the Social Defence Committee of my decision to transfer. As for your second question, for the time being, I am not aware of another request for concrete euthanasia from an intern. It goes without saying, however, that I will do everything possible to better treat and treat our interns.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-04-54-commissie-ic081x.u19	Mr. Minister, do you confirm that you met him in prison?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-04-54-commissie-ic081x.u20	Mr Maingain, I have the impression that you are hearing well: I have said what I have said. I personally informed him on January 6 of his transfer to Ghent.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-04-54-commissie-ic081x.u21	Yes, but this fact had not been mentioned until the revelation of the daily Le Soir. Good! Admit that it is nevertheless special that the Minister of Justice in person travels to visit and inform an inmate..., even in special circumstances and even if medical measures to implement the euthanasia procedure should be avoided. One can therefore wonder – what the Evening article does – whether, beyond the doctors' opinion, there would have been some kind of direct negotiation between you and an inmate; in short, perhaps this is some kind of blackmail on the part of the inmate. I admit that this situation leaves me somewhat perplexed: it is a curious precedent that a Minister of Justice moves to a prison, even under eminently respectable human circumstances, which I do not doubt for a moment in your head, and meets with an inmate to verify his ultimate wills and decisions regarding his status. I fear that under other circumstances such action will be used by others for other purposes. I will certainly not deny the human meaning of your approach, but I fear that such a precedent will lead to further drifts.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-04-54-commissie-ic081x.u22	Mr President, Minister, at a previous committee meeting you have already been asked about the shortage of French-speaking clerks in the Brussels district. Indeed, following the division of BHV, the Labour Court, the Police Court, the Court of First Instance and the Commercial Court split up to have specifically French- and Dutch-speaking courts. The result is a cruel shortage of French-speaking clerks. Unfortunately, this phenomenon of shortage is not valid only in Brussels. Indeed, minister, this shortage may, let us not be afraid of words, extend to all (or almost all) jurisdictions in the country. In the first instance court of Liège, to avoid quoting it, many of the clerks in place are so-called "delegated" clerks. The situation of the latter was therefore less comfortable since, at the basic level, the delegation was for a limited period of time. According to your figures, there are currently 4,289 full-time clerks for an executive of 4,827 clerks. According to you again, a new selection procedure, launched in June 2014, has not yet been completed and the publication of a new list of vacancies is in preparation. You also state that the cadre of judicial personnel is never automatically completed and that managers can make their priorities known before jobs are declared vacant. Minister, can you tell me if there have been any new developments? How many candidates came out following the selection process launched in June 2014? When will the selection process be completed? Would it not be interesting to oblige, rather than allow, those responsible to make their priorities known? Finally, can you tell me more about the situation for the province of Liège?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-04-54-commissie-ic081x.u23	Mr President, Mrs Cassart, with regard to your first question, I refer to the previous questions on the situation of the courts and tribunals dealt with at the meetings of your committee on 14, 21 and 28 January. I am well aware of this problem, which is why I personally meet, both at the level of the Public Prosecutor's Office and at the headquarters level, all heads of corps to discuss recruitment priorities and to decide on the order of emergency of the vacant posts to be filled within their jurisdiction. I found it appropriate to invite also the chief clerks and the chief secretaries. I asked the Chiefs of Staff to provide an update on the current situation of the staff and their views on how to fill vacancies for judges and judicial personnel, taking into account the budgetary context and the cost of recruitment. These discussions with the Chiefs of Staff and the needs analysis are likely to take a few more weeks, as follow-up meetings may need to be held. In the meantime, of course, I am doing everything I can to ensure that the courts and tribunals can continue to function. As regards the selection procedure launched in June 2014, seventeen and one vacant places of Registrars were published in the Belgian Monitor of 25 June 2014. 83 candidates applied for these vacancies, and 32 of them were proposed for appointment, as they were successful in one of the 22 selections. Both the courts and the prosecution are currently providing us, on their own initiative, with information that is particularly relevant to their priorities. In these circumstances, an obligation does not seem appropriate. As far as Liège is concerned, 16 vacant places of Registrars were published in the Belgian Moniteur on 25 June 2014. 16 candidates applied for these positions, and 9 of them were nominated as winners of one of the 4 selections. The places not filled are broken down as follows: 5 places for the first instance court of Liège out of the 10 published, 2 for the labour court of Eupen – a court for which there is no candidate. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that candidates can apply for more than one vacancy and that a selection may involve several vacancies on the basis of grouping. The procedure has been initiated to request the republication of all vacant posts published in 2014 but for which no successful candidates have been selected. To broaden the scope of recruitment for clerks, the initiative was taken to prepare a new promotion review at Level B.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-04-54-commissie-ic081x.u24	Minister, thank you for this complete answer, for the figures provided and for your involvement in this issue.
