ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic120x.u1	Mr President, Minister, since the most recent state reform, many powers in the inland waterway sector have been transferred from the federal to the regional level, including shipping police, crew regulations, safety rules, the regulation of dangerous goods and the construction and maintenance of waterways. All this has become a regional competence. However, there are still a number of grey areas in that division of competence, where it is not clear whether the federal level or the region is competent, in particular for access to the profession in the inland waterway sector, on the one hand, and for the rules relating to the Rhine Patent, on the other. The Region is in the process of overturning the new powers and will therefore make legislation or decree-making around those powers. As a result, it will also question the Council of State. However, Minister, it may be interesting to hear from you at this stage whether you continue to regard access to the profession and the rules governing the Rhine patent as a federal matter. If so, why do you want it? If not, there is one less problem in this country. I look forward to your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic120x.u2	According to the Special Law of 6 January 2013, a number of powers are indeed transferred to the Region. These include the establishment of police rules on inland waterway traffic. In addition, there is no dispute as to crew regulations as to what is expressly provided for in the special law and in the explanatory memorandum. As far as safety regulations are concerned, there is no doubt about this. It concerns a competence of the Regions. Only the powers of inland waterway vessels which are also used for non-international sea voyages remain to be agreed between the federal government and the Flemish Region. This also involves maritime matters, which fall within the exclusive competence of the federal government. As regards the grey areas you mentioned, you quoted the position of the Flemish Region. However, my services inform me that the Flemish Region, the Walloon Region and the Brussels-Capital Region do not necessarily share the same opinion. Further consultation is always possible for me.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic120x.u3	Madam Secretary, is this consultation planned? Will you take the lead in this or will you be challenged by the regions that have questions? I also endorse your view that the federal government will remain competent when inland waterway transport is combined with a maritime transport system. That goes without saying, but perhaps it is useful to tell us whether and, if so, when a consultation with the Regions is planned.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic120x.u4	Mr President, I have two questions about minimum service. One relates to the practical aspect of the organization of the minimum service and the other to the legal aspects of the matter. I'll put them down at the same time. Madam Minister, you have expressed your support for the establishment of a minimum service in the event of a strike. In addition to the ideological questions that may arise, I wonder about the feasibility of minimum service. It is up to us that, in order to organise such a minimum service, we must have sufficient staff: drivers, attendants, staff in the signal booths, in the workshops, in the stations. This would range from 50 to 60 per cent of the staff to be mobilized. Do you confirm these figures? In countries where this minimum service is applied, users complain and claim that it is worse than a real day of strike: disorder reigns, trains are overloaded, safety is not ensured. Taking into account all these points – the high percentage of staff engaged, the safety problems, the disadvantages faced by users – do you not think that this decision should be reconsidered, this intention to introduce a minimum service? I move on to legal issues related to the right to strike. The right to strike is recognized by several international conventions: the conventions of the International Labour Organization (ILO), the European Social Charter, the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, and the European Charter of Fundamental Rights. The European Court of Human Rights has included freedom of association as one of its principles. At the Belgian level, the jurisprudence of the Court of Cassation of 1981 recognizes the right to strike as an individual right which can be exercised even outside any trade union structure. More specifically, the ILO Committee on Freedom of Association states that strikes can only be prohibited in essential services in the event of an imminent obvious threat to life, safety and health. This is clearly not the case for rail transport. The Committee states that in order to establish a minimum service, the services concerned and the number of workers used must be determined in consultation with the workers' organisations in order to ensure that this possible minimum service is not extended to such an extent as to render the strike ineffective. This is a little bit in line with my first question. When many personnel should be mobilised, is the right to strike ultimately respected? Madam Minister, do you not think that the introduction of the minimum service to SNCB would violate the right to strike, which is recognised both by Belgian law and by international law?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic120x.u5	Mr President, Mr Van Hees, I believe that, first of all, you are forgetting that SNCB and Infrabel are autonomous public undertakings. You make me carry all the rail ailments on my back! It is almost an honour to make me believe that I would thus be very powerful in deciding any case within the SNCB Group. I will therefore ask you for a little reserve in the future. To answer your only question in the end, no, I do not, as certainly no member of this government, question the right to strike. The government agreement even inscribed it expressis verbis. However, in order to elaborate on the subject you are referring to, namely the minimum service, I would like to recall what I have said many times before this House: the government agreement provides that the Memorandum of Understanding signed between the trade unions and the management of the SNCB Group in charge of wild strikes will be incorporated into management contracts and into the law. I would like to recall that the protocol existed before I took office. I'll apply it. In addition, I have asked SNCB and Infrabel, but also Belgocontrol, to formulate, in consultation with the social partners, a proposal to provide a minimum guaranteed service in the event of a strike. It is only if an agreement is not reached within a reasonable period of time that the government, at my request, will take a legislative initiative. We are not yet at this stage because I know that the two public companies are working together with HR Rail before formulating a concrete proposal that will be submitted to the social partners. A space for dialogue is therefore guaranteed and I therefore do not understand the hardness of your remarks.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic120x.u6	Minister, the harshness of my remarks stems from the fact that when you say that neither you nor the government question the right to strike, you deny the facts. The measures you are taking are a way of calling into question the right to strike that does not say its name; it moves in a hidden way. I think that from the moment that 50-60% of the staff – you have not answered this part of my question which I thought was important – will be involved in the case of minimum service, it is a non-disputable question of the right to strike. It is thanks to the right to strike that social progress has been achieved. If children do not work in factories today, it is thanks to the right to strike. If there is paid leave, social security, public services, it is thanks to the right to strike! This attitude does not surprise me on the part of your government, which is attacking the social achievements of the world of work and, at the same time, launching an undemocratic attack on this right to strike. For sure, if we want to remove the gains of workers, we must attack the means available to these workers in order to defend themselves socially! On the legal issues relating to the right to strike, I have not really heard an answer, including on the more precise aspect of the minimum service, on comparisons with what is happening abroad in particular. Finally, you repeated that you were not questioning the right to strike, that protocols were signed, but as for the specific elements that I put forward, I did not get any answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic120x.u7	Mr Van Hees, I remind you that the right of reply is limited to one minute.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic120x.u8	The cabinet is asking for question No. Mr Van Hees. - (NL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating Mr Van Hees on his excellent report. It remains on the agenda as planned.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic120x.u9	Madam Minister, on 14 December 2014, SNCB's new transport plan entered into force. The plan was preceded by a series of preparations, particularly as regards the needs of current and potential travellers at the various stations. Several fellow Members have already referred to the very drastic reduction of services at the Ghent railway station, a sub-municipality of Ghent. The offer was there I want to repeat it again halfway from 64 to 38 stops. The direct train to Antwerp was cancelled. The number of stops was limited to one L train per hour in both directions. Many residents chose Gentbrugge as their residence because of its proximity to the station with its direct connections to Brussels and Antwerp. I hope one day a ring of stations around Ghent will be realized. After all, the city's policy consists in banning the city centre in the car as much as possible. At that moment we will need that ring of train stations around Ghent. Gentbrugge will play an important role in this. The commuters in Gentbrugge feel abandoned by SNCB. Their possibilities have been drastically reduced and their journey time has increased considerably in most cases. The neighborhood residents and commuters have now united in the SOS Gentbrugge action group. The Action Group was received on Wednesday 18 February by SNCB's Managing Director for Transport. He confirmed that there would be no stops in Gentbrugge for the time being, but promised that SNCB would investigate the possibility of stopping the IC train between Gent-Sint-Pieters and Antwerp in Gentbrugge. The action group was naturally very satisfied with this. Of course, we still have to wait, because the possibility would be explored. What aspects will SNCB investigate with a view to additional stops at the Gentbrugge station? Is SNCB effectively prepared to review the service provided at Gentbrugge station? By what time can we expect an answer? You have said a few times that the current transport plan is being evaluated anyway. Should research indicate that additional stops in Gentbrugge are technically and financially feasible, will they be introduced? If not, why not?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic120x.u10	Madam Secretary, SNCB's new timetable brought bad news to the Gentbrugge station, where I pass daily by train to Brussels. The offer was halved, leaving only two trains per hour, one train in each direction. This led to commuters from Gentbrugge having a much more difficult connection and of course are on the road much longer. Let me situate Gentbrugge. It is close to the E17 towards Antwerp. Brussels is also easily accessible via the motorway. It will therefore seem logical for many commuters to take the car to their workshop and thus limit their journey time. The reduced operation of the Gentbrugge station will therefore not only have a negative effect on the comfort of many commuters, but also on the environment. When the news came out that the operation of the Gentbrugge station would be drastically reduced, some local residents set up an action committee. In the meantime, they have collected 1 500 signatures against the new timetable in their station. This group of people asks SNCB for alternative solutions, such as stopping trains that have sufficient time. The argument for making the change was the loss of time for trains elsewhere on the route, such as on the lines Antwerp-Ostend and Antwerp-Poperinge. Last week this action group was together with the managing director of the Transport of SNCB. When we questioned you on 10 December 2014, you said that the consequences of the new transport plan would be reviewed. You kept the door open for an adjustment of the new transport plan, very concrete for Gentbrugge. Madam Minister, what were the concrete results of the consultation between the Action Group and SNCB? Does SNCB consider certain measures for the Gentbrugge station? Is SNCB still looking for alternatives to this station? Does SNCB envisage the possibility of making adjustments to the transport plan if the study showed that there are viable alternatives to the Gentbrugge station?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic120x.u11	Mr President, the discussions between the action group and SNCB again explained why the transport plan was drawn up in this way and why it was not possible to make major structural changes. I'll give you the details. A journey time extension implies a reduction in the time spent in Ghent-Sint-Pieters, which jeopardises the regularity of the journey. The IC train concerned has a scheduled turnaround time of 14 minutes in Gent-Sint-Pieters and an additional stop takes about 3 minutes. The return time in Ghent-Sint-Pieters would therefore fall back at 8 minutes, which is quite insufficient for a barrier of the train. To preserve punctuality, this implies the use of an additional train set on the Antwerp-Gent connection, plus staff for this train. An additional detailed study is currently being carried out in consultation with Infrabel. In the new transport offer the trains between Ghent and Antwerp are better spread, to give a better offer to the largest group of passengers travelling on this rail axis. A consequence of the timetable adjustment is also that the IC 28 runs 6 minutes from the L-train Gent-Eeklo. For the local operation between Gentbrugge and Ghent, an additional stop of the IC 28 offers a great added value. For travellers from Gentbrugge towards Antwerp, the direct connection was replaced by a connection with a transfer in Gent-Dampoort. This increases the journey time from Gentbrugge to Antwerpen-Berchem by 13 minutes. Adding an extra stop to the other ICs between Ghent and Antwerp is not at issue and is not operational due to the large investment works in Ghent-Sint-Pieters. These IC connections also cover a much longer route to Ostend and Lille via Kortrijk, respectively. The commuters will be informed as soon as possible if an adjustment is planned. Basic and structural adjustments to the current transport plan will not be planned until December 2017.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic120x.u12	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. However, I do not understand a number of things. I understand, however, that no major structural changes can be made to the plan anymore. However, the amendment is not a major structural change. That is a first point. Secondly, I can see from your answer that there is a very low chance that there will be an adjustment for Gentbrugge. I wonder why they did not have the courage to inform the group immediately during the interview. We have not dared to do so, and we have allowed ourselves to hope that there will be an adjustment. In substance, you say that there is a problem with turning time and that it would mean losing too many minutes. May I remind you that a lot of trains that drive to Antwerp are standing still? May I also point out that it is not my data, but that of the SNCB-Dampoort that the train that stops in Gentbrugge takes 7 minutes from Gent-Sint-Pieters to Gent-Dampoort. The train that does not stop in Gentbrugge but stops in Dampoort station and then drives to Antwerp, takes 6 minutes. So there's a difference of one minute. So there is no difference of 8 minutes, as you say; there is a difference of only 1 minute. This would help many commuters, because it is not only about the connection with Antwerp, but also about the large connection between Gentbrugge and Gent-Sint-Pieters. Gent-Sint-Pieters is one of the largest transfer stations in the country. Ghent is in second place, after Brussels. Gentbrugge plays a major role for the region. With that difference of one minute you could help a lot of commuters. I would therefore like to insist once again that we look at this again, Madam Minister. It is not a major structural change, but a change of only 1 minute.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic120x.u13	Madam Minister, I thank you for your reply, which I understand is that another study will be carried out by Infrabel. I believe that the action group with its petition has a number of good arguments for putting two trains in. I also understand that punctuality is an important priority for SNCB, but I do not think that a train is an important consideration. For this reason, I would like to call for a serious look at this question and, if possible, to respond to it. The last word on Gentbrugge has not yet been said, but of course we look forward with great interest to the study of Infrabel.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic120x.u14	Debates of the European Parliament 2439 by Mrs Inez De Coninck has been converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic120x.u15	Madam Minister, I have already asked you a written question about the Vilvoorde station. Unlike the station building, which was recently renovated, access and platforms are very poor, so much so that safety is no longer guaranteed. In a press release dated 11 February 2015, the City Council of Vilvoorde announced that it had received confirmation from Infrabel that the renovation had been postponed indefinitely. However, in a letter to the Vilvoord city council, both SNCB and Infrabel confirm the poor condition of the station. To an earlier question by Mr Becq, you replied that you had planned a working visit to the Vilvoorde station. That visit was postponed. Do you intend to make the work visit take place on another date after all? Will you confirm once again that this renovation is urgent and priority, as you said in your reply to my written question of 9 January 2015? What are the possibilities to advance the renovation, or parts of it, necessary for the safety of passengers?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic120x.u16	Mr Penris is not here.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic120x.u17	My visit to the Vilvoorde station was postponed because I had to give priority to the meeting of the Consultative Committee. We will examine the file on the renovation of the Vilvoorde station in the framework of the next multi-annual investment plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic120x.u18	Thank you for your reply, Madam Secretary. I hope that you will recognise the seriousness of the situation and that resources will then be released in the multiannual plan. There is no doubt that there is no need for this kind of money for the most necessary interventions, which guarantee safe access to the platforms.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic120x.u19	Mr. Chair, Minister, the SNCB User Advisory Committee has undergone a major overhaul following the reform of the SNCB Group. From now on, the Rail Passenger Advisory Committee will be the preferred contact point for passengers to facilitate the transmission of information and clarify responsibilities in case of problems. The Royal Decree of 13 June 2014 regulating the composition and operation of the Advisory Committee for Railway Passengers has not yet been implemented. At present, it appears that no call for applications has yet been launched, thus preventing the Committee from working, which is detrimental to the user. Minister, when will the call for applications for the various functions on this Committee be launched? What will be the specific missions of the latter? Will the said Committee have a possible role to play in the negotiation of the future management contract?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic120x.u20	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the provisions of the Act of 21 March 1991 governing the functioning of the Advisory Committee on Railway Travellers will be slightly supplemented in the coming months. As regards the call for applications procedure, the preliminary draft will be submitted to the Council of Ministers. The tasks of the Advisory Committee on Railway Passengers are specified in Article 47/1 of the Act of 21 March 1991 on the Reform of Certain Public Economic Enterprises. The tasks entrusted to the Committee under the law are very broad in so far as it can, on its own initiative, give any opinion on matters relating to public passenger service as regards both service and infrastructure. A mandatory consultation is planned on the draft multiannual investment plan, the transport plan and the management contract. Compulsory consultation with regard to management contracts shall be carried out by means of recommendations on management contracts transmitted to the Legislative Chambers not later than six months before the expiry of the said contracts.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic120x.u21	Mr President, Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. If I have heard correctly, a specific date has not yet been set for the launch of the call for applications. I hope, however, that we will not have to wait too long for the Advisory Committee on Railway Travellers to finally be set up and begin its work.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic120x.u22	Madam Minister, a few weeks ago Het Belang van Limburg published an extensive interview with you in her weekend edition following your visit to the station in Neerpelt. You say the following about the Hasselt-Neerpelt railway line, which is line 18: "The reopening would cost 185 million." We must now first look at whether the Flemish government has money to participate in this. This seems to me, with all due respect, to contradict the original agreements. A separate investment envelope has been provided for the priority projects put forward by the Regions. Is my interpretation of your pronunciation correct? Do you really think Flanders is prepared to make a financial contribution? Can you explain your views on this again? Were any agreements ever made with the Regions on a shared financing of those priority projects? Do you expect the Regions to co-finance effectively? Will projects only be included in the multi-annual investment plan if the Regions contribute financially to the implementation? What amount of financial resources does the federal government provide for these regional priorities? In your view, what competence do the Regions have with regard to rail transport?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic120x.u23	I confirm that the Hasselt-Neerpelt railway line was one of the priority Flemish investment projects whose cost for Flanders was estimated at 185.7 million. In its letter of 17 July 2013, the Flemish Region also stated that it could agree to the principle of co-financing, to negotiate on the basis of a multi-annual investment plan finally approved by the Federal Government. The co-financed projects had to be included in a new cooperation agreement between the federal government and the Regions. A total of 2,566 billion federal funding was provided for regional priority projects in the 2013-2025 multi-annual investment plan. The projects still had to be selected definitively, taking into account their investment and operating costs, their socio-economic impact and their alignment with the federal rail strategy. No agreement was made with the Regions on a shared financing of the regional priority projects. Rail transport is still a federal matter and falls within the competence of the Minister for Mobility in charge of the National Society of Belgian Railways. However, the special law of 8 August 1980 provides for the possibility of additional financing by the Regions for investments in the construction, adaptation or modernisation of the railway lines, to the extent that there is still proportionality with regard to the federal financing.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic120x.u24	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply. I am a little surprised that you mention a letter dated 17 July in which the Region would have agreed in principle to co-financing, provided that the project was included in the multi-annual investment plan. This is somewhat contrary to what your colleague Ben Weyts in the Flemish Parliament confirmed in response to that same interview. He says that the federal investment envelope is intended to be used for the implementation of these projects. I'll check it out and get it checked out. If we look at the powers of the Länder, it is clear that rail transport is not included. You confirm that rail transport is not a regional issue. In my view, therefore, the cost of regional rail projects cannot be passed on to the Länder. The regionalisation of the railways was not part of the sixth state reform. I think it is logical that the costs of investment in rail infrastructure should be borne federally. One of the projects that Flanders puts forward is the reopening of line 18. I have repeatedly pointed out to you the importance of this and will not bother you again with all the arguments pro. However, it is an important line for Limburg and I would urge you once again today to include the project effectively in the forthcoming multi-annual investment plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic120x.u25	Question No 2503 by Mr David Geerts is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic120x.u26	Minister, when a person has obtained his/her C or C1 driver's licence with certification of professional fitness, it is legally provided, in order to retain him/her, for a 35-hour in-service training course over a five-year period. However, some professions require this permit C, while transportation is not the main purpose of their profession. I will cite as an example, but there are others, the cattle dealer who, during the week, travels by car in order to carry out commercial acts and who, on Thursday, has to move by truck in order to gather the cattle to take him to the market that is taking place on Friday. Continuing training for these occasional carriers is the subject of a derogation in legislation. This was confirmed by the administration in 2014. However, it is not always easy to determine with certainty who can benefit from it. Madam Minister, in order to avoid any confusion and in the context of administrative simplification, could this derogation be granted systematically to all livestock carriers licensed by the AFSCA for short-term transport? Thank you for your clarification. The sector is waiting for a response.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic120x.u27	Dear colleague, the Royal Decree of 4 May 2007 on driving licences, professional suitability and continuing training of drivers of categories C1, C1+E, C, C+E, D1, D1+E, D, D+E contains in its § 1 6° the following exemption: "The requirement of professional fitness shall not apply to drivers of vehicles or combinations of vehicles used for the transport of equipment, equipment or machines intended for the driver in the exercise of his profession and provided that the driving of the vehicle does not constitute the main activity of the driver". This exemption therefore has two conditions: driving must not be the main activity of the driver; the equipment, a concept which can be interpreted in a very broad sense according to the European Court of Justice, the equipment or machinery carried is intended for the driver in the exercise of his profession. Livestock merchants who transport their equipment or livestock to a market for the purpose of exercising their profession must therefore fulfil the above conditions: on the one hand, livestock is very clearly intended for their activity, since it is the object of its activity; on the other hand, driving is an ancillary element of it, which consists primarily of selling this livestock. However, the exemption does not apply to a person who is solely responsible for transport, since the driving is therefore his main activity, and that person does not carry equipment intended for his or her professional activity, since he or she is not a livestock breeder, but only a carrier of the livestock. Belgian legislation, on the basis of the European Directive, does not permit the issue of an official exemption document. Administrative simplification is therefore not possible. For this reason, a non-exhaustive list of exemptions from certificates of professional fitness for which there are no interpretation problems has been published on the Mobility & Transport FPS website. In order to ensure that the relevant checks are carried out in a consistent manner, the Centrex was informed of the existence of this list with a view to ensuring proper communication to the police services. Finally, it should be noted that the Mobility & Transport FPS provides, on request, a response to the request of the administrations, federations, companies or individuals regarding the application of the certificate of professional fitness exemption, which takes into account the particular situation of the drivers concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic120x.u28	Mr. Chair, Minister, I thank you for your full, clear and precise answer. I'll report it to the area. I think they'll be happy. I can understand that we can't issue a specific certificate. But this list is not exhaustive. I think they can contact the Mobility FPS. Even if they don't, I can also give them a copy of your answer in case of a check.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic120x.u29	Madam Secretary, a list of 131 stations where wheelchair users can leave is available on the SNCB website. Whether or not a station is equipped with assistance for wheelchair users depends, according to SNCB, on the question. The station Kwatrecht, for example, is a municipality with two thousand inhabitants, but it is included in the list because, according to SNCB, there is sufficient demand, because in Kwatrecht there is a school and a boarding school for people with disabilities. However, there is no assistance for wheelchair users at the railway station Tielen, a submunicipality of Kasterlee, a municipality with 17 000 inhabitants. According to SNCB, however, the municipality is eligible, since in Kasterlee two retirement homes and a school for special education, the Mast, and the former Margrietje, have now been incorporated into the non-profit organisation of the GielsBos. In the neighboring municipality of Lille there is also the main building of the GielsBos, which accommodates more than 300 people with disabilities. If this number is added to the number of students in the Mast, more than 400, and the possibility of the rest home residents also using this assistance is taken into account, we come to a number that approaches the potential in Kwatrecht. That is why we have the following questions. What are the conditions to be equipped with assistance for wheelchair users? Have I been informed that the criterion is the question and the need for assistance? If so, is there a minimum question used? How is such a thing measured? Is this, for example, with a trial period or based on requested figures from the municipality or institutions that count many wheelchair users? Or is that based on the number of requests for assistance that come through the website? How many questions need to be asked to provide that assistance? Specifically in the case of Kwatrecht, on the basis of which criteria was chosen to equip the station with wheelchair assistance? Is there an ex-post evaluation to check whether demand is sufficient to justify supply? Do you think that the Tielen station, which is located in a municipality with two rest homes, a school for special education and Margrietje, and in the neighbouring municipality the main building of the GielsBos, would be eligible for wheelchair user assistance? SNCB informed us that we can apply through the customer service to make use of this assistance. How is such a question assessed? Who exactly does this? What data are required for the assessment of the application? Is a list of the centres in our municipality sufficient?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic120x.u30	In the management contract 2008-2012 of SNCB, 103 stations were selected where assistance would be provided to wheelchair users. Various criteria were taken into account, such as the geographical distribution, the importance of the station, the level of equipment of the station, the accessibility of the platforms and the presence of ramps. Assistance was also provided in smaller stations with an institute nearby. The list of 103 stations was later extended to 114. This extension made a choice, in consultation with local services, on the basis of the possibility of providing assistance, the need for assistance, the further improvement of the geographical distribution and the level of equipment of the station. SNCB then launched a taxi project which allowed the number of stations to be increased with assistance from 114 to 131. It is clear that there must be a need for assistance before SNCB offers assistance in a particular place. In the immediate vicinity of the station Kwatrecht is the Medical Pedagogical Institute Sint-Lodewijk. More than 15 years ago, a collaboration was concluded with the MPI Sint-Lodewijk, in which SNCB provided sloping surfaces to the platforms and ramps on the platforms and the staff of the MPI Sint-Lodewijk provided the operation. In the meantime, SNCB also provided the necessary assistance. Assistance to persons with reduced mobility is an obligation set out in the management contract. The requirements of the new management contract and the available resources will determine the level at which SNCB should deliver such services. In exceptional cases, it may be possible to allow one-off assistance in stations or stops which do not belong to the current 131 station. Following a number of events, after lengthy preparation of consultations with the organisers, and if the infrastructure has been adapted, assistance may be granted exceptionally.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic120x.u31	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. It is not really an answer to my question as to what criteria are being applied. You referred, for example, to the presence of an institution. I wonder why, for example, there is no such assistance at the Teelen station. Then how is that determined? Is that what happens with a pilot project? As I understand it, it really is an individual agreement. I would like to recommend to the neighbouring institutions the same agreement. In this way they may also be able to be equipped with assistance.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic120x.u32	Minister, this may be a moment of relaxation and a moment of smile on an agenda that is always shaky, politically difficult. Each year, SNCB promotes its B-Excursion formulas, which are also good tourism formulas, which promote travel by public transport. The formula is known: it is a combination "train trip + a ticket to a park, museum or other tourist attraction". In addition, SNCB has completed the formula by combining it with another means of transport or even renting a bicycle. However, when reading the present season's booklet, it must be noted that Wallonia as a whole, and in particular the province of Luxembourg, is not particularly highlighted by this SNCB formula, which is nevertheless interesting in order to encourage the support of tourist activities in regions in need of it. For example, for the province of Luxembourg, there is only one formula: a mountain bike ride in Vielsalm. Why not, indeed, the area is beautiful. But it is surprising that this province, which is highly touristic and has many assets, does not receive more attention from SNCB. I would like to know how SNCB selects its offers of B-Excursions formulas and how it can explain these disparities between the different regions or provinces. How is it that in a province such as Luxembourg, only one activity is proposed? Has the province of Luxembourg itself been contacted to make suggestions? Have there been any other contacts with the initiative unions which are very active in the province of Luxembourg to promote tourism? What are the conditions for parks and museums to be included in the booklet published by SNCB? Is there a difference in treatment between public and private managers of tourist sites? Why does SNCB not offer more train-bus-vélo formulas to make certain sites located in rural areas more accessible?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic120x.u33	Mr. Maingain, the product B-Excursions is a commercial offer of SNCB that combines the return journey by train, the entrance to the attraction and possibly the complementary journeys by bus, tram or metro. There are many tourist attractions in Belgium. However, for practical, logistical and commercial reasons, SNCB only creates combined formulas for attractions where a large potential for train passengers is realistically estimated. To assess whether a B-Excursions formula can be created, SNCB uses several criteria, the most important of which are the national or at least transregional reach of the attraction, a large number of visitors, the attractiveness of the price and strong and professional communication by the organiser. On the one hand, there is the permanent offer of the B-Excursion which is included in the annual brochure and on the SNCB site. This offer is mostly based on formulas combined with the large Belgian parks. On the other hand, in addition to the standing offers, temporary forms during the year are created for various events or exhibitions. This offer is communicated via a quarterly brochure and also posted online. SNCB does not wish to discriminate against certain regions or provinces in the choice of destinations for B-Excursion and is simply based on commercial objectives as explained above. As far as contracts are concerned, it is usually the organisers themselves who make direct contact with SNCB.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic120x.u34	Mr. Chair, Minister, your answer is quite general and does not provide much information on methodology. I believe that, frankly, SNCB lacks imagination and interest in certain parts of the country. I am sure that if I pursued research for other provinces, regardless of the region concerned, I would also find major gaps. We still have the advantage of having a line, even if it is very neglected, 162, which serves the province of Luxembourg quite well, which offers a real potential to support tourism development in this province. The SNCB would probably have to show him a little more interest. It can hardly be understood that a province such as the province of Luxembourg, which is eminently touristic, is represented by only one site in this SNCB formula. That is deplorable.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic120x.u35	Questions Nos 2542 and 2545 by Mrs Ann Vanheste are converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic120x.u36	Madam President, I would have liked to ask a question about the organisation of work.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic120x.u37	The minister must leave us at noon.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic120x.u38	Are the questions that are not asked postponed to a future sitting?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic120x.u39	Yes. Minister, all questions will have to be eliminated before Easter. The secretariat will organize itself.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic120x.u40	Madam Minister, since March 2013, the Ombuds service has no longer been allowed to deal with complaints of irregularities for rail passengers. In fact, SNCB and the railway passenger ombud service interpret the law governing the powers of the ombud service in a different way. There are therefore several readings of the French and Dutch texts. This seems to be only a detail, but in practice it does mean that many complaints cannot be dealt with properly. The Ombudsman considers himself competent to deal with complaints of irregularities. However, the discussions on this issue continue to drag on and should be resolved as a matter of urgency. At the committee meeting of 11 November 2014, in the meantime four months ago, you promised to work out a solution, defending the interests of the disadvantaged travellers and avoiding costly procedures resulting from abuse by a small group of fraudsters. I think that's a good thing. In the government agreement, the government is committed to making maximum efforts to promote alternative dispute resolution methods. That was in the Justice chapter, but it can also apply here and include mediation. Madam Secretary, have you been with the parties involved and found a solution? What is your position on the competence of the ombudsperson in relation to irregularities? I would also like to see a state of play on the protocol agreement with working arrangements between SNCB and the railway service, which was actually announced two years ago but, as we know, has not yet been completed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic120x.u41	Minister, according to Jean-Marc Jeanfils, the mediator for rail passengers, SNCB would no longer allow the latter to intervene since 1 March 2013 to deal with complaints about irregularities with the tickets. Previously, this type of file accounted for almost 20% of mediation requests. For Jean-Marc Jeanfils, with this voluntary limitation of SNCB, the traveller no longer has any means of redress free of charge, the only solution being to go to justice, which represents a financial cost. SNCB, for its part, defends itself by saying that it is only applying a law of 28 April 2010 which defines the windows of actions and interventions, as well as the powers of the mediator. On reading this law, SNCB ensures that the Ombudsman cannot take any binding action against her or exercise any supervisory power over her. According to Jean-Marc Jeanfils, the main reason for the SNCB to act in this way is to avoid the mediator defending fraudsters. However, this limitation prevents some bona fide clients from defending themselves effectively with respect for democracy. On 5 November last, in the same committee, our colleague, Mr Daniel Senesael, asked you a question on this subject. You then replied that before deciding on the merits of each other's arguments, you wanted to take the time to meet with the various stakeholders as well as the travel organizations in order to give you an opinion. In this regard, Minister, have you been able to meet with the various stakeholders and the travel organizations? If so, what has emerged from these meetings? Under current legislation, what are the situations in which the Ombudsman can intervene to support an individual in a dispute with SNCB? On the other hand, what are the situations in which the Ombudsman does not have to intervene? What is your position on this? Do you think that the possibility should be left to everyone to have recourse to the services of the Ombudsman in a dispute with the SNCB or do you support this limitation of the Ombudsman's action? I thank you in advance for your answers and wish you a happy birthday, hoping you can have happy moments with the people you love and love you!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic120x.u42	Mr Devin, there has been a difference in the interpretation of the legislation since the beginning of 2013 between the SNCB and the Ombudsman for the treatment of irregularities. The parties concerned are currently in contact with each other in order to find a solution to the problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic120x.u43	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer, although that may have been said a lot. Actually, the situation is still the same as in early November. It is, of course, a good thing that the parties concerned are talking to each other, but I understand that each one is sticking to its position. I believe that a competent intermediary such as yourself will have to take a decision at some point and take a position to resolve the dispute.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic120x.u44	Minister, I did not get an answer. I asked you if you could have met the various stakeholders – you tell us they are talking to each other; that's very good – as well as the travel organizations. If so, what has emerged from these meetings? I also asked you for your opinion on the current legislation. That people talk to each other is a good thing, but, your opinion, what is it? You will understand that I am a little frustrated: November, December, January, February until March 18, it's been four and a half months. Inevitably, I will return to you on this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic120x.u45	Madam Minister, with the sixth state reform, the regions also gained more powers in terms of road safety. Part of the Road Safety Fund was regionalised. It has been agreed that the revenue from fines levied for infringements of regional regulations, including speeding offences, will no longer be part of the Federal Road Safety Fund, but will be passed on to the Regions. In order to put this into practice, a lot of further adjustments are needed. For example, a link between the different databases of the different services should be established. A good exchange of information is essential in order to be able to pass on to the Regions what they are entitled to. It is then about an exchange of information between Justice, Police and Finance. In addition, from 1 January 2015, an amount of 181 million euros was added to the fund. A similar amount was deducted from the amount to be paid to the Regions through the special financing act. It is a cardigan-pocket operation, but so the federal road safety fund and the related funding of the federal and local police were maintained and maintained. This will ensure that a good amount of road safety can be achieved at both federal and regional level. The results on road safety published yesterday show that we must continue to invest in road safety. What is the state of play and the timing of the link between different services - police, justice and finance - in order to pass on the revenues belonging to the regions? What exactly will the data exchange look like? What will the regions be able to use the funds? Of course, we should not interfere with the way in which the regions use the resources, but it is important that resources from road safety actions should also be re-invested in road safety.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic120x.u46	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, on the merging of police and judicial databases, the necessary steps have already been taken to identify regionalised traffic offences on the basis of the places where the regionalised infringements were committed. At the end of February, the transmission of data between the Justice and Finance systems was tested to ensure that the same data is transmitted to Finance, which is responsible for collecting the amounts at the various stages. In the meantime, all data has been stored with the Justice Department since January 2015, so that no information can be lost. For each regionalised offence, such as speeding offences outside the motorway, an excess of the authorised mass, exceptional transport or transport of dangerous goods, the information on the region concerned was given. As a result, it will be possible to determine at each stage of processing the amounts actually received and are ultimately due to each region. This means that traceability is guaranteed for each regionalised infringement, both at the stage of immediate recovery and at the stage of the friendly settlement or fine. In the final analysis, the FPS Finance will transfer to each Region the amount to which it is entitled on a monthly basis, on the basis of the amount received in the previous month. The use of the amount received by the Regions is their sole responsibility. Therefore, I cannot make any comments on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic120x.u47	Thank you for that answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic120x.u48	Madam Secretary, I would like to bother you again with a question about the Iron Rhine. A while ago the German railways announced that they would start finishing the German part of the Betuwe line in 2016, which connects the port of Rotterdam with the Ruhr area. The works should be ready by 2022. The Dutch section was completed in 2007. The construction of the German part of the Betuweroute is especially good news for the port of Rotterdam. The number of freight trains is expected to double and freight transport to the Ruhr area is expected to be smoother. This will also significantly strengthen the competitive position of the port of Rotterdam, including in relation to the port of Antwerp. So there is reason to reactivate the Iron Rhine, our freight line with Germany. Madam Minister, in your reply to an earlier oral question, you referred to planned contacts with the Netherlands. Are you referring to the high-level working group or are you planning additional separate consultations with the Netherlands? On 4 March, the Belgian and Dutch governments sat together around the table in a joint government stop. What railway projects did you talk to your Dutch colleague about? What was the result of that? The High Level Working Group agreed to order a large-scale study on the three possible routes for the Iron Rhine. How much time will the study take? By when can we expect the first results? Your Flemish colleague, Ben Weyts, mentioned earlier that he has notified the study to the European Commission, hoping to obtain European support for the project. When will the European Commission decide on this?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic120x.u49	Madam Minister, at the committee meeting on 21 January, you informed the Chamber that there would be a consultation with Germany on 26 January on the application of the Iron Rhine dossier. In the meantime, through an interview in Het Belang van Limburg on 21 February, I was allowed to hear that you do not wish to comment on a possible reopening of the Iron Rhine. You said: 'I think there should first be a more reliable study and an official German position'. I was seriously surprised at your statements, firstly because I had already questioned you twice on the dossier. At no time have you indicated that you think there should be a reliable study first. On the contrary, in your reply on 21 January, you referred to other European bodies which no longer consider it necessary to carry out further studies. I refer to the work plan of Mrs Catherine Trautmann, European coordinator of the North Sea Baltic Core Network Corridor, from late December 2014, which mentions the Iron Rhine project as a connection of great importance for the port of Antwerp and the Belgian hinterland. On the Iron Rhine route, you said that although it is not included in the core network, it is on the list of pre-identified projects of that core network. Secondly, a great deal of research has already been done in the dossier. The European Arbitration Court has already ruled on the route itself. In the meantime, it is also four years since, during the ministerial consultations between Belgium and the Netherlands on 4 July 2011, an agreement was reached on the historic route as a final route of the Iron Rhine. It was then commissioned by the administrations of both countries to draw up a draft by 1 November 2011 on the distribution of costs between Belgium and the Netherlands for the entry into service of the Iron Rhine on Dutch territory. The procedure has already gone that far. So now you have come up with the message that there seems to be a need for additional studies and that the previous studies, in your view, are not reliable enough. Madam Minister, is it true that a new study will be ordered on the Iron Rhine? If so, what new elements suddenly require a new study? Why do you refuse to submit the MoU, Memorandum of Understanding, to the Council of Ministers? Fourthly, on what basis do you suddenly state that you are waiting for an official position from Germany? After all, Germany has repeatedly and officially stated in the past that the requesting party is in favour of reopening the Iron Rhine. Finally, what has been the outcome of the consultation with the Dutch Minister responsible? Is it on that occasion that the Netherlands asked for this big new study?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic120x.u50	As I already informed the Committee on Infrastructure of 5 November 2014, the draft memorandum, which was drawn up by my administration at the end of 2012, is only an element of the complex dossier. I have never refused to submit the draft to the Council of Ministers. A draft is a step forward in itself, but more fundamental questions need to be answered. For example, the feasibility of an alternative route for the historic route of the Iron Rhine, namely the route via Weert, Roermond, Venlo, Viersen to Düsseldorf, should be studied. This aspect emerged at the end of 2014 and is the subject of consultations between the parties concerned as well as the study 3RX or the Rhine-Rhône-Rail Connection. All parties, including those responsible for the German federal state and the Land of North Rhine-Westphalia, are prepared to cooperate. The study does not mean that the previous work and studies have become superfluous. The idea of carrying out this study has grown, among other things, by Germany's decision to build the Viersen bend and to modernise the Dülken- Kaldenkirchen section. As part of the ongoing call by the European Commission for the submission of TEN-T development projects, Flanders will submit this dossier. The study does not therefore come at the request of the Netherlands, but at the initiative of the Flemish Region. The preparation of this study will only start after the European Commission has announced the results of its call, which is scheduled for June 2015. The duration of the study is approximately 18 months. This evolution in the case of the Iron Rhine has also been discussed in the discussions between Belgium and the Netherlands. It was agreed to set up a technical working group between the three countries concerned and the two regions of the Community, Flanders and North Rhine-Westphalia, in preparation for a ministerial meeting between the same parties.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic120x.u51	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. I'd like to take a positive look at the file. After a bit of a standstill, there is finally some movement in the file. It is also good that all the regions concerned show their willingness to support once again a study, this time on the three possible routes. That's good news. Let us also be honest and say that the investigations must stop afterwards. Mr Vanvelthoven has referred to it, there has been a great deal of research and views. It's time to move on to action. Everyone agrees on the importance of the Flemish ports for the Belgian and Flemish economy. However, international competition is very high. Good connections with the Ruhr area and Eastern Europe are crucial. The road network is overloaded and the regions will also introduce a mileage tax for trucks. An alternative by rail is therefore absolutely not an unnecessary luxury. The Iron Rhine will and can play an important role in this. The conclusion is that it is now time to put your hands on the team.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic120x.u52	Madam Secretary, I honestly do not understand any of this. Several tracks were examined at the time. At the time, Belgium and the Netherlands, Germany, on the side of Belgium, did not decide which route it should be. Belgium had arguments for the historic route. Because the Netherlands did not want to fold, Belgium has gone to the European Arbitration Court to determine whether it can or cannot historic tracé. We got right there. Now, however, you decide that Belgium would suddenly be a party to something that we have always opposed and for which the court has given us the right to do so. You refer to the Flemish Region. We will inform there if it would be asking party, but that would surprise me very much. This is unlikely. I have often been concerned about this in the previous period of government. Then my party was also in the majority. So I don't want to make it a game of opposition to majority. This is, in my view, the final funeral of the Iron Rhine and I really don't understand it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic120x.u53	Madam President, Madam Minister, at the committee on 21 January I asked you about the state of play in the SNCB Logistics dossier. SNCB's freight branch has been in financial difficulties for some time and would urgently need fresh capital. In your reply you indicated that the discussions on the future of SNCB Logistics are still ongoing. However, the negotiations with Deutsche Bahn had come to an end. I have three specific questions for you, Madam Secretary. Which possible partners are currently being interviewed? What's the status of the conversations? What possible slopes are still on the table? Which slope does your preference wear away? Will there be a solution for the file before Easter? If not, what period can we expect a solution within?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic120x.u54	Madam President, Mr Raskin, I would like to remind you that SNCB Logistics operates as a 100% subsidiary of SNCB in a competitive market and is fully subject to all legal provisions for public limited liability companies governed by private law. The general approach is not to provide commercial information on activities carried out in a competitive environment. However, I can tell you that there are discussions with different industrial parties, different financial investors and Belgian stakeholders. The Board of Directors of SNCB is regularly informed about the evolution of the talks with, of course, the duty of confidentiality, including as regards the timing of the negotiations. It may be noted that a number of options remain open for the time being, including an alliance with one or more industrial partners and an investment by a private partner. It goes without saying that the solution chosen will respect all European regulations and that the dossier will be discussed with the European Commission. Moreover, there is no impact on the functioning of SNCB.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic120x.u55	Madam Minister, I have every respect for the relevant legal provisions, but I thank you for your reply, which was somewhat clearer than last time. The conversations have been going on for a long time. In principle, Mr Cornu should have presented a concrete proposal at the end of last year, but that is still pending. I respect the confidentiality of the information, but I would like to remind you once again that a structural solution is becoming increasingly urgent, a solution that cannot be motivated by short-term financial considerations. A solution must be found which is also interesting from a market strategic point of view and which will ensure the necessary stability. This is in the interest of the Belgian customers of SNCB Logistics, especially the Flemish ports, which is therefore very crucial for the Flemish and Belgian economy. I look forward to concrete news on the subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic120x.u56	Colleagues, the minister announced that she should leave at noon. So we're going to release her. After discussion with his cabinet, it was agreed that a question-and-answer meeting would be held on the afternoon of Tuesday, 24. There are still sixty items on the agenda. Although I will not be able to preside over the proceedings that day, it is absolutely necessary to respect the time allotted. Otherwise, 16 hours will be required to exhaust the agenda. I therefore ask the Minister to attend a second meeting before the Easter holidays. Indeed, it is important that we do not end up with a dispute of a hundred questions, since colleagues will still table others by then. The meeting in question could be extended.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic120x.u57	Madam President, a few weeks ago I said how much I appreciated the long-term organisation of our work. We all make commitments. Today, I was hoping to ask all my questions. It's impossible, and I understand it well, because calendars are what they are. For next Tuesday, I also made commitments. Will we then delete the meeting on the 25th afternoon?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic120x.u58	No meetings were scheduled that day.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic120x.u59	Yes, we were supposed to ask Mrs. Galant our questions. It was on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic120x.u60	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic120x.u61	We come here to ask questions; we cannot do so. On the 25th, it was expected that we would place them; we will not be able to do so. We are going to be seen as absent, and that is a problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic120x.u62	I understand you very well. The Minister informs me that she will visit the Netherlands on the 25th.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic120x.u63	Yes, Wednesday afternoon.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic120x.u64	I'm trying to fix the agenda as best I can. Anyway, Mr. Devin, your questions will be postponed for you to ask them before Easter. That's all I can do. I imagine that many parliamentarians will be able to come. In any case, if the minister is abroad, I cannot call her manu militari.
