ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic046x.u1	Madam President, Minister, first of all, I would like to express my best wishes to you and to all my colleagues and collaborators. Minister, a few weeks ago, we could read in La Libre Belgique the confirmation of what was in the government agreement with a little more detail. I quote. "The government will look into the future, place and status of the National Geographical Institute (IGN), the Royal Army Museum, the Central Office for Social and Cultural Action (OCASC) of Defence and the Institute of Veterans (IV)". Brief on the memory pole of the Defense and the Federal. In this context, I would like more information, Minister, on the future of these different institutes. Your government's agreement states that "a working group, under the authority of the Minister of Defence, will meet to assess the advantages and disadvantages of a structural rapprochement between these two parastatals". What is the range of options covered by this sentence? According to what timetable will this working group meet and will it have to indicate the procedure to be followed? What initiatives do you intend to take to ensure that this announced reform of the Institute of Veterans does not affect its core missions, but also to ensure that the quality of service provided to veterans and beneficiaries is maintained? What would be the consequences of such a reform at the staff level? Will trade union organisations participate in this working group? Finally, will this reform impact the anchoring of the duty of memory work, which is essential at the level of Defence and the federal government in general in connection with the Royal Army Museum?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic046x.u2	Madam President, dear colleague, the government agreement – my agreement, as you say – does indeed state that a working group under the authority of the Minister of Defence, myself, will bring together the administrators of the OCASC and the IV-INIG to assess the advantages and disadvantages of a rapprochement between these two parastatals. It is therefore the task of this working group to define the various possible approximation options and, for each of them, to determine the pros and cons of them. For the time being, I believe that this working group should be allowed to work in complete serenity, which is why I do not wish to speak on one side or the other. As for the schedule of work of this working group, the Government's agreement provides for a report in the first year of the legislature. I can confirm that a first appointment took place. The objectives of this rapprochement are economies of scale and increased efficiency, while taking into account the mission of these two parastatals. It is therefore necessary to find the most effective solution to guarantee the right holders of these parastatals a quality service.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic046x.u3	Minister, thank you for your answers. Of course, we will be attentive to the progress of this group's work. I will not fail to return to the subject in due course. I remind you of the importance of memory work to us – as well as to you, I have no doubt. So I'll ask you to take care of it. That will be the subject of my next question. We will of course also be attentive to the future of the staff, you will understand it!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic046x.u4	We had a meeting with both parastatals. I can confirm that the memory work has been mentioned. It is indeed important to maintain it!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic046x.u5	Madam President, Minister, at the end of September 2014, 157 bronze commemorative plaques were stolen from the Rabosée military cemetery in Wandre, Quebec. The other plates were sheltered by military personnel, but were nevertheless damaged. Beyond historical and human injury, material damage was estimated at 125,000 euros by National Defence. Like the Department of Defense, the city of Liège filed a complaint for these facts. In addition, the Defence has taken steps to replace the plates. A total of 213 steles of soldiers who died during the First World War remain unnamed. Unfortunately, these are not the only facts we are aware of. At the end of May 2013, another similar flight was observed at the military cemetery in Malines. Previously, in 2008, the same acts were committed at the Belle Motte Military Cemetery in Aiseau-Presles. These are therefore criminal acts that are as unacceptable as they are repetitive. Minister, what action does your department intend to take on these flights? What initiatives do you intend to take to avoid this type of act in the future and to protect this heritage essential to the duty of memory in places within your competence? How do you intend to ensure that the protected heritage remains accessible to the public, especially during this period of international commemorations? Finally, more broadly, what is your vision in this area, in particular, in order to assess how to ensure better monitoring of the maintenance of certain major symbols of this collective memory?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic046x.u6	Madam President, dear colleague, the stolen plates will be replaced as soon as possible. In addition, a check will be carried out in the near future to verify whether repairs already made to damaged tombstones are sufficient or whether any of them should be replaced. In order to avoid further damage, the remaining bronze commemorative plaques were removed by my services. These plates will be replaced by Plexiglas plates that are less attractive than those made of bronze. A project is currently under consideration. It aims to offer the protected plaques to the Royal Museums of Art and History, the In Flanders Fields Museum, the Memorial Museum of Passchendaele 1917 and the Fort of Loncin. The Military Burial Service of the Institute of Veterans – National Institute of War Invalids, Veterans Affairs and War Victims, which is in charge of the management of cemeteries, under my supervision, is currently in contact with the aforementioned museums in order to know whether they wish to recover one or more plaques for their collection. Given the difficulty of ensuring ongoing monitoring of all sites and the budgetary constraints that Defence must face, I will assess how to better track the maintenance of some of the major symbols of this memory in the coming months.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic046x.u7	Minister, thank you for your answers. I also salute the rapid response of the army when the first plates were stolen. It is not just a question of saying here what is not right. We must also say what is good. However, I know that the services reacted very quickly. I hear some rooms may go to different museums. However, I plead that certain pieces should be kept at the local level. I know the Rabosée cemetery and its region well. A whole work of memory, of which we have already spoken, is done with the schools of the neighborhood. Beyond that, of course, it is necessary to protect this heritage and to maintain a part of it at the local level.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic046x.u8	Mr Minister, the government's agreement contains, in its part on the interior, a passage directly affecting your department: "In case of a high general level of threat - from level 3 - the government may decide, on the advice of the National Security Council, if necessary at the request of a mayor, to temporarily deploy the army to assist the police and security services for specific monitoring missions". In view of all the potential implications of this project, I would like to ask you, Minister, the following questions. What will be the type of military participation? Have bilateral meetings with your colleague from the Interior ever taken place? What would be the budgetary impact of such a project on your department? Have you ever made contact with the French government for an exchange of experience in this area, while the Vigipirates plan is often criticized? What would be the legal consequences of the implementation of this plan? What would be the framework for such missions for the military? What limitations and safeguards do you intend to put in place? How will this device be controlled? Will military training be adapted to such missions?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic046x.u9	For the time being, Defence does not have administrative police powers. This task is reserved exclusively for police services under the Police Function Act. In the current state of legislation, however, it is not excluded that the armed forces should be involved in specific administrative police missions in support of the police services. This is the case for policing tasks involving the control or protection of a place or property. This type of commitment may be decided by the government or may result from a requisition expressed by a mayor, a governor, a district commissioner or the competent authorities of the federal police when the means of the police service prove insufficient and if it appears that the armed forces are the only ones to be able to provide the necessary technical and human resources. Within this framework, the administrative police powers of the military remain limited. While military personnel may use force in this context, they may not, however, conduct identity checks, record records, search, seize, arrest or handcuff a person. The government agreement mentions the possibility of the deployment of the army in the event of a high general level of threat, starting at level 3, to assist the police and security service in specific monitoring missions. Within the framework of the strategic plan and in accordance with the Government Agreement, missions to assist the Nation will be given special attention, including the tasks of the military police. To decide on the budgetary or legal implications of this expansion of police missions by military personnel is currently too premature. These implications are being studied at this time. At present, there have not yet been formal contacts with the Minister of the Interior or with France.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic046x.u10	As with the other subjects, I will come back once you have advanced in your bilateral contacts with the Minister of the Interior and with France. I think it's interesting to see what's going on there. I know it's pretty critical. We are attentive because seeing the army perform police missions, without guard, can of course be very worrying. I will not fail, minister, to return.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic046x.u11	This question was put by Mr Mathot, but Mr Senesael has just put the same question and will ask it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic046x.u12	Madam Chair, Minister, originally directed to Minister De Block, this issue has finally been redirected to you. Minister, it is clear that the government, like all departments of the state, will impose huge savings on the Department of National Defence, amounting to €1.5 billion in the coming years. In this context, the government agreement refuses to decide between the various components of National Defence, except to sacrifice the medical component. The agreement refers to the possible closure of the Queen Astrid Military Hospital, which was repeated in a press briefing by the CHoD. However, this facility plays a crucial role in the civilian care sector of our country by providing essential services that civilian hospitals would find difficult to take care of, such as the burn service. It could also have played an extremely important role in the Ebola crisis. Moreover, this choice seems incomprehensible when the army wants to be more oriented towards "operations abroad" and therefore the potential number of wounded could increase among our military. Minister, what are your views on the future of this institution, which is certainly under the tutelage of Defence but which performs important functions in the area of health care and assistance to the nation? How can the specific role of this military hospital be maintained? Do you intend to consult with the defence social partners on the future of this institution? If so, according to which calendar?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic046x.u13	Madam President, Mr Senesael, I must refer you to my answer to Mr.Alain Top's oral parliamentary question No. 519 of 19 November 2014. Since I am of good will, I will nevertheless repeat to you the essence of its content. I do not want to prejudge the strategic plan. The government agreement does contain a sentence concerning the military hospital, as it represents a significant budgetary cost. We will examine this case in detail; there is no ulterior thought behind this sentence. As I said before, everything is under study.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic046x.u14	Madam President, I had insisted at the outset that the question was initially addressed to Mrs De Block. As the Conference of Presidents decided to refer it to you, I thought that new elements had emerged. The question had been asked to Mrs De Block about the health implications. We thought that other elements had intervened.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic046x.u15	None.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic046x.u16	Madam President, Minister, this morning a number of my fellow Members, General Delcour, applauded him for being one of the few soldiers who dare to engage in the political debate. And how. At the end of last year, he made a rather harsh point of calling your defence policy into question. The general said that you are losing credibility because you are saving too much, so that, on the one hand, we may no longer be able to honour our NATO obligations and, on the other hand, the employment policy and the day-to-day operation of the army are likely to be compromised. I have the following questions, Minister. First of all, were you aware in advance of General Delcour's views? Secondly, are his claims consistent with reality? Thirdly, what is your position on the substance of General Delcour's allegations? Fourthly, do the savings indeed affect the staff, their tasks and their jobs? Finally, after the appearance of the general's views in the press, has there been any consultation with the person concerned?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic046x.u17	Thank you, Mr Penris, for your question. It is important, however, that you quote the general himself and his article correctly. I do not recall that he specifically mentioned the Minister of Defence in his speech. I would therefore also ask you to be willing to acknowledge that he personally did not blame me, but that he has generally made a number of comments on, in particular, the budgetary impact of the budget, as was the case in Parliament. I was not aware, Mr Penris, of the open letter from retired General Delcour. Even after the publication of the open letter, I had no contact with him. You may recall that I was questioned about this in the media. I replied at that time that I fully understand the general's concerns. In the meantime, it is well known that the budgetary effort requested from my department is not the least. I have, moreover, admitted and announced this sufficiently in the presentation of the budget section. As I have said on several occasions, I am working, together with my cabinet and the defence staff, on a long-term strategic vision that will be presented to the government. You too must understand that I cannot make any preliminaries on that plan at the moment. Reforms will be needed to develop a strong defence within this framework that already intends to remain a loyal partner at international level or, for what we can offer, at least a reliable partner. It is also my wish and my ambition that the long-term strategic vision should lead to a quasi-final reform, at least a reform that concludes a series of reforms for some time. You're asking my opinion on what General Delcour says. I share his analysis when he says that it is difficult to manage a department efficiently with an unstable budgetary framework where one reform is catching up with another. In that sense, I believe that stability is very important. The budgetary situation of the federal government is currently unbearable. We hope that in the long term, in accordance with the government agreement, the military programme law which will be linked to my strategic plan will be able to compensate for the shortage of investment today.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic046x.u18	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. In order to complete the report, I must withdraw my words, in the sense that, of course, the General has not endorsed you, but rather the policy in general. You had a point.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic046x.u19	Minister, on 19 November 2014 there was some panic among the inhabitants in the West Flemish Kuurne. Between 20:00 and 21:00, people saw a man walking around. They heard gunshots, too. They then decided to inform the emergency services with the necessary civil spirit. There was also some chaos in the police. After all, she apparently didn't know what was going on there. Luckily, the whole thing was a false alarm. It was an army exercise as part of a whole week of exercises in the province of West Flanders. Neither the police nor the mayor of Kuurne was aware of the fact that in their congregation military were doing exercises. If both the police and the mayor had been informed in advance about the military exercise, the citizens' panic might not have been necessary and the competent services could have responded more efficiently. Now a lot of people have been in the dark for a while. That is why I have the following questions. Mr Minister, first of all, what is the standard procedure for military exercises? It is a matter of procedure with regard to cities and municipalities. Secondly, why weren't the police and the mayor of Kuurne informed about the fact that their congregation would be the scene of an army exercise? Thirdly, and at the same time the most important question, how will you avoid, in the future, that citizens are being spooked in such a way by military exercises by Defence?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic046x.u20	Thank you, Mr Yüksel, for your question. First, let me explain how the procedure is normal. The procedure for informing municipalities in defence exercises is described in an internal directive, which I will explain to you. A unit wishing to organise a military exercise shall submit to the military command of the province concerned an application for Maneuver rights at least eight weeks before the start of the exercise. That's step one. By provincial command, the application will be delivered to the Director of the Communication and Information Centre and to the Director-Coordinator of the Federal Police of the Province, following an in-depth analysis for advice to the Governor's services. Depending on the nature of the exercise, other services are also invited to formulate their advice or any comments. For example, it can be about the Agency for Nature and Forest, when the exercise takes place in the Flemish part of the country, or about the Maritime Rescue and Coordination Centre. The governor distributes the application at his level to all the mayors of the cities and municipalities listed in the application and, where possible, to the residents. The director-co-ordinator of the federal police is responsible for the division between the police chiefs concerned. In the case of the successful Storm Tide II exercise, with regard to the non-combattant evacuation operation, the procedure was broadly correctly followed. However, it was found that, notwithstanding the action, the municipality of Kuurne was partially located in the territory of Kuurne, by the applicant, the organizing unit was not included in the list. Consequently, neither the mayor nor the chief of police received the application for the exercise on their territory. I apologize for this oblivion. Apart from this incident, Defense has made every effort to inform the public about the exercise in advance. I think the exercise was well known. For example, a press conference was organized by the city of Ostend, extensive coverage of the exercise was reported in the local media and there were door-to-door flyers distributed in the streets and around the buildings where actions were planned. Defence and myself regret the incident and we will urge the hierarchical chiefs to pay more attention to a complete listing of all the municipalities and cities that might be affected during the execution of an army exercise. We will therefore have that list examined more thoroughly in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic046x.u21	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. I believe that completeness of information is recommended so that all residents, mayors and relevant services are informed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic046x.u22	I have just expressed my goodwill by putting forward a question from Mrs Fernandez Fernandez. I now get Mr Yüksel's explicit question as to whether he can see his other questions answered. If the other Members agree, I can deviate from the agenda at the present committee meeting and otherwise the agenda will remain as it is. Is everyone okay with that? [[Assent]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic046x.u23	Madam President, thank you for your kindness. Mr. Secretary, we are faced with difficult times in the defense, with the whole saving operation. I don't have to explain that to you. In this climate of savings, it is important that we explain to the people what Defence is doing. For this purpose, the public relations activities of our Belgian troops serve. I am thinking, for example, of open-door days in barracks and exercises of expertise of our troops. I believe that these activities prove their worth, not only for respect for and affinity with our troops, but also for the attraction of young, future soldiers. In your policy letter, you also argued in favour of this. That's a first case. Another point is that we also live in a time of Facebook and Twitter. In my opinion, the image of the Defense Department is also made through social media. I find that the DOD doesn't have an official Twitter account today. I myself am being followed by a certain defense.be, but when I look at that, I see that it is quite clear that it is an unofficial Twitter account. Twitter is undoubtedly an important medium. Minister, there may also be a lot of questions addressed to your services. I believe that the DOD can fill an important gap in this respect. Minister, what is your budget for public relations activities in this legislature? How does this relate to the budget in the previous government period? Are you planning to fill the communicative vacuum on Twitter, if I may put it that way? Will you be more specific about this? What initiatives will you take to improve Defence's communication and image towards the population? What activities do you plan in this respect?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic046x.u24	Mr Yüksel, the whole of the public procurement, recruitment and information projects is summarised annually in a budgeted communication action plan, abbreviated CAP. In 2014, the CAP budget amounted to around €2.7 million. The CAP for 2015 is currently under study and will be adopted in the spring. It provides, inter alia, for the integration of a new Facebook page with the social media initiatives already in place at unit level, on the one hand, and consultation with the relevant staff for the individually launched pages on Facebook and Twitter, on the other. There is no doubt that the savings on Defense will also have an impact on the CAP budget. However, a reduction in the budget will not necessarily have a negative impact on communication with young people. Part of the budget will be shifted from print publications and TV advertising to social media information campaigns. For the purposes of expertise, the Ministry of Defence will use the Space Agency until the end of 2015. I can confirm that the youth segment is and remains the priority target audience in the defence public relations policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic046x.u25	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. Maybe you could take Twitter with you. This is also an important communication tool, both for professionals and for the broad population. I would certainly pay attention to that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic046x.u26	On Monday, Minister, we read in the newspaper that a cooperation was established with regard to the defence of our airspace. Under your predecessor, a letter of intent was signed between Belgium and the Netherlands on 23 October 2013 regarding the integration between the two countries of airspace surveillance. This is a nice example of pooling and sharing. The joint surveillance of the Belgian and Dutch airspace also means savings. Formal agreements between the two countries will be agreed this year. The letter sent by the Dutch Minister of Defence Hennis-Plasschaert to the Dutch Parliament states: "In Belgian-Dutch cooperation, Belgium and France have already signed a treaty to support each other in the Renegade task, the fight against aviation terrorism. Belgium, France and the Netherlands consider the impact of this on the conclusion of the Belgian-Dutch treaty. A satisfactory solution is expected for all three countries." On 15 December 2014, Dutch Defence and Economic Ministers sent a letter on this matter to our country. Can you get us this letter? What message does this letter contain? The quote just came from a press article. A treaty on the integration of airspace monitoring would be in progress. When could this Convention be signed? You also said in an interview on Monday that this cooperation does not necessarily involve a budgetary exercise. That does not alter the fact that we can save some money in this way. Do you have any idea of the amount that could be saved? Can you also explain the impact of such cooperation between Belgium and the Netherlands on cooperation between Belgium and France?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic046x.u27	Minister, I am not going to repeat the whole speech by my colleague Mr Yüksel. Following on from my colleague's remarks and questions, what is the attitude of our country in these talks with the Netherlands about protecting both our airspace together? How much savings could be possible? Finally, a more concrete question about the current F-16 aircraft. Is there any thought, in addition to protecting airspace, about maintaining existing aircraft together in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic046x.u28	You won't be surprised that my questions are similar. International cooperation is important. We also think that cooperation with the Netherlands is very important, which has already proved its worth. We now seem to want to continue along this path as far as the air force is concerned. We also read that agreements are on the way. I assume you will confirm that this will indeed be the case. What should the Minister certainly say in these agreements? Or what could possibly be in it? Would it also be about financial agreements? After all, we are in a saving framework and we expect this to fit within the budgetary framework as outlined by this government. I would also like to focus on the content of the letter from the Dutch Minister of Defence and whether you and/or the Dutch and Belgian Defence have any further plans for intensifying further cooperation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic046x.u29	Madam President, it is important to define clearly which letters and writings are correct. Mr Yüksel, you are referring to a letter dated 15 December 2014 to the Ministry of Defence, but I do not know about that. I suspect that sometimes certain things are confused. In my opinion, you are referring to the letter from the Minister of Defence to the chairman of the House of Representatives concerning the report of the Dutch Court of Auditors on the subject of "Debrief replacement F-16 February 2014' of 15 December 2014. So that letter is not addressed to me. In any case, I have no knowledge of direct correspondence lately. I can confirm that there are constructive talks with the Netherlands to formalise the cooperation as stipulated in the letter or intent. The VRT stuck a date on that. I can say that the talks are constructive. There are still some technical details to be worked out, but I think that cooperation can be formalised in the short term, if I may put it this way. However, I do not want to pin myself on a date. However, discussions could be concluded in the foreseeable future. The budgetary savings, which everyone is looking forward to, are mainly operational, as resources are released. Today it is true that, at a short distance, the world map looks at two aircraft 24 hours a day and seven days a day. That would be a saving, but it is not yet calculated. There is, of course, also a need to agree on costs. There are other examples, such as the Navy, which show that they usually try to do this kind of settlement with closed stock exchange. As far as cooperation between Belgium and France is concerned, it is also appropriate to specify exactly what it is about. Since 2005, Belgium has had a bilateral agreement with France in the context of the Renegade threat which provides for the possibility of taking action with aircraft from the other nation over its own territory to be able to respond adequately and continuously to a threat posed by passenger aircraft as a terrorist weapon. It is important to know what we have just agreed with France. It is basically that they allow us that, where our aircraft normally have to stop at the border, they can still fly France, but also no more than that. We must therefore take no action over France. We must not commit ourselves. Letal action over French territory is not possible under the Treaty. The new treaty to be signed with the Netherlands, where we opt for joint surveillance of the two airspaces and allow the Netherlands to take action above Belgium and vice versa, is of a very different order, but it also has implications for the bilateral agreement we have with France. In this sense, it examines how this can be extended. Luxembourg has also asked to accede to that Convention, but more on that later. Mr Buysrogge, as regards your question about further cooperation with the Netherlands in other areas, I refer to the answer to the written parliamentary question No. 8 by Mrs Grosemans of 21 October 2014, see the Bulletin for questions and answers by the Court of Justice 54/0002. You know that we have a textbook example with the Navy and that we also explore other things. At the end of this month we will go to the Netherlands to see where we can go deeper. The issue of airspace surveillance is certainly raised there, but other points can also be raised. As regards maintenance costs, there is a collaboration with the Netherlands for the maintenance of the F-16 in a punctual manner, i.e. not structural. Because the maintenance services of the F-16 service providers are linked to the base where they are stationed, a joint interview is not possible today. For the NH90 there is a collaboration with the Netherlands to exchange some parts. We are only talking about the NH90 in the maritime version, which Belgium and the Netherlands have, but which, I was told, is of better make.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic046x.u30	Madam President, I would like to thank the Minister for the answer. This is, of course, a good example of pooling and sharing, Minister. I hope that cooperation with France will not be compromised and that it may also be extended. We have also read in the margin that conclusions are drawn from the cooperation with the Netherlands in the replacement of the F-16.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic046x.u31	Formal for the report, ladies and gentlemen: there is no link between the purchase dossier and this cooperation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic046x.u32	I believe that this clarification is appropriate.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic046x.u33	Madam President, I would like to thank the Minister for this clear answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic046x.u34	Madam President, Minister, no letter was sent by the Dutch Government to the Belgian Government, because this was in the newspaper?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic046x.u35	(...) [[Not containing micro]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic046x.u36	Minister, I wish you all the best for 2015. I would like to come back to a question I had already asked you before the holidays about the possible dispatch of the Belgian emergency humanitarian response team B-FAST to support the fight against the spread of the Ebola virus. We had discussed in camera in committee the postponement of the decision because of unmet security conditions. Recently, a dispatch from the Belga Agency informed us that the mobile lab had left. Minister, can you inform me of the state of development of this issue, including our presence on the ground?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic046x.u37	Mr Pirlot, it is the FPS Foreign Affairs who is responsible for this issue. It has developed a draft mission including a synthesis of the elements advanced by the departments, including security analysis. In close collaboration with its partners in the other departments and in liaison with its French counterparts, the SPF Foreign Affairs has planned a Belgian participation through a B-FAST/B-LIFE mission integrated into the overall French plan to combat the spread of the Ebola virus in Guinea. On 5 December 2014, the Council of Ministers agreed to this mission. The B-FAST/B-LIFE team left Belgium on 20 December 2014 for a period of one month. After one month, this joint mission will be evaluated by the B-FAST Coordination Board. The use of laboratory personnel by Belgium will last for a maximum of two months.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic046x.u38	Minister, thank you for that answer. At the on-site team level, are they eight people as originally planned?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic046x.u39	Seven or eight! The laboratory will be taken over by an NGO.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic046x.u40	Mr Top, you asked for your questions to be postponed. Either you're sitting here out of enormous interest, or you're going to ask your questions anyway.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic046x.u41	Madam President, as I said, I would come back if I could. So I'll ask my questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic046x.u42	Madam President, Minister, some time ago, on 11 July 2014, figures on suicides in the Belgian army were published in the Doctor's Newspaper. The figures for the last five years are higher than the average percentages for the male population in Belgium. So more soldiers have left their lives than the average Belgian population. The figure is clearly higher than the average of 30 out of 100 000 male inhabitants in our country. Several studies also show that highly hierarchical structures can lead to suicide. According to former labour inspector of Defence Marc Lemmens, the Belgian army has apparently failed to fulfil its promise to work out a proper prevention. I have a few questions about this. Can you confirm that the figures of suicide in the Belgian army are indeed still higher than the average in Belgium, or are more recent figures available in the meantime? Your predecessor, Minister De Crem, insisted that there was sufficient prevention. However, if we can believe the figures, the number of cases of suicide is still increasing. In this prevention, he also included primary prevention in the selection of the candidates and the social service of National Defence which would provide information, advice and psychological support. Are you prepared, if necessary, to extend this prevention as there is a permanent need for preventive measures? Do you have any idea how this could possibly be implemented? Do you believe that the hierarchical structure of the army could be a possible reason for these high figures? If so, how can this problem possibly be addressed? If not, how can one explain the higher figures? Finally, your predecessor also stated that there is a NATO working group dealing with the prevention of suicide. Are these resources effective? What can be done to further address these problems? Has this working group already come together and, if so, has there been any provision for prevention?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic046x.u43	Madam President, allow me to answer this question in detail. I also think this issue is very important. Mr Top, first let me give you some figures. The number of suicides at Defense has evolved as follows: 16 in 2009, 18 in 2010, 14 in 2011, 13 in 2012 and 10 in 2013. I have also requested the figures for 2014, but I have not yet received them. These figures refer to the military in real service, the military using voluntary suspension of the services, the so-called VOPs, and the citizens working in Defence. As far as your second question is concerned, the selection of candidates and the actions of the Social Service of Defence do indeed help to prevent suicide among the staff. In addition, however, numerous other initiatives are being taken to improve the well-being of staff and to prevent them from getting involved in a process that could or could lead to suicide. They mainly aim to facilitate access to assistance and therapeutic care. I will mention some of these measures. First of all, for over a year we have had formal procedures for dealing with psychosocial complaints. Staff members can contact specialist prevention advisers for assistance. Secondly, Defence has a network of 70 trusted persons who have received special training for this purpose. In addition, seven central confidential persons are responsible for handling informal complaints, i.e. in addition to the formal procedure. Those confidants have enjoyed a training to learn to recognize signs of suicide. During the preparation phase of an operation, the military follow a training course in which they learn to deal with the psychological and social challenges of the shipments in which they participate. For the supervision of personnel in operations, the Defence Department has a team of counselors mental operationality, moral consultants and chaplains. For their family members, Lands defense organizes family days, together with the social service, and social assistants and a special telephone number are at their disposal. I would like to mention that I myself asked the Defence Staff to examine whether further specific measures should be taken, in particular on return after an operation. Staff with complaints or mental disorders can be followed up at the Centre for Mental Health of the military hospital Queen Astrid, where they are taken care of and supervised by specialists. That centre also provides a brochure to the military and their colleagues who are faced with an attempted suicide. In five regions, Leopoldsburg, Marche-en-Famenne, Brussels, Bruges and Namur, the field actors of the psychosocial services meet periodically in the regional psychosocial teams to do intervision and case discussion. In the Psychosocial Platform Defence, the main actors of the psychosocial domain come together to discuss the psychosocial policy followed and, if necessary, initiate actions. I'll summarize what I've said so far. There are therefore both structural and informal facilities, hulkers and trusted persons are trained, who also exchange information and experience in order to provide the best possible services. It's virtually impossible to verify the exact reason for a suicide. Usually, a combination of financial, relational and professional problems lies at the root of the problem. When different risk factors are present in combination, this obviously poses a potential risk. That danger can be mitigated by protective factors. It is mainly the protective factors that play an important role in preventive measures in the field itself. On the one hand, various international studies on leadership and associated group cohesion show that good leadership and group cohesion can be protective factors. After all, good leadership will reduce the level of stress among subordinates. Basically, good leaders can recognize the symptoms of stress in their subordinates. On the other hand, other studies carried out by the U.S. military show that military-related variables, such as rank, specialty and number of unfolding, have little or no influence on the transition to suicide. Finally, as regards your last question, representatives of the Defence Staff are indeed part of a NATO working group. This group has so far met six times, with the following specific objectives: firstly, to improve the understanding and understanding of suicide in the armed forces; and secondly, to identify efforts to prevent suicide; thirdly, to identify good practices and possible differences between participating countries; and lastly, to create a platform for consultation to prevent suicide and to share studies and information. Finally, I would like to inform you that the working group is delivering a report this year. It would be interesting to discuss that report in committee, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic046x.u44	Thank you, Minister, for the detailed answer. I am also pleased that the phenomenon of suicide in the army is being followed, in terms of figures and possible causes. I also welcome the measure to pay particular attention to the return of military personnel after operations. These are stress situations which, combined with other factors, can lead to suicide. Finally, I am pleased to note that we will be discussing the report in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic046x.u45	The Minister can answer 25 questions until 13:00. We shall therefore have another question put and answered.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic046x.u46	Madam President, Minister, the RTBF media announced on 30 November that Defence is planning to participate in a NATO mission called Baltic Air Policing to ensure aviation safety in the Baltic states (Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania), which lack fighter-bombers. They are obviously not lucky enough to have the same debate as we had this morning. Since March 2004, when these three countries joined the Atlantic Alliance, the Allies have been sending fighter aircraft, in turn, to this region. Since the Ukrainian crisis, the border between these Baltic countries and Russia has again become "chaude", since according to a Belgian pilot questioned by RTBF "Russian aircraft enter the Baltic airspace, without authorisation or then with a permit but without respecting their defined flight plan". The purpose of NATO's mission in this area is to intercept and then escort these Russian aircraft. NATO has just applied to Belgium for relief for this month of January. Four F-16s would thus operate from Poland, in teams with Italian, Spanish, Canadian and Polish aircraft. The number of incidents between Russian and NATO forces has been increasing recently. These incidents show a rising tension which, fortunately, so far, stops before reaching a fatal point, that is, the slaughter of the aircraft. But there are still eleven skirmishes that were qualified as serious in 2014, according to the Think Tanks European Leadership Network. The area where our F-16s would be sent is precisely where many incidents have been recorded. Five incident descriptions refer directly to the Baltic Air Policing. Minister, my questions are as follows. Can you tell me what budget you plan to allocate to this specific mission? Given the very high level of danger in an area currently in open conflict – the conflict between Ukraine and Russia – could you clarify to me the security opportunity for the Defence, diplomatic and military personnel of such a mission at this particular time? Does Defence envisage, directly or through NATO channels, preventing Russia from patrolling potentially organised by Belgian Defence in these airspaces? I ask you this question because during the hearings we had with your Foreign Affairs colleague, the latter advocated a policy of de-escalation with Russia. It would be good if there was some consistency between what we are doing at the defence level and what the Department of Foreign Affairs is advocating.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic046x.u47	Madam President, Minister, I am not a member of this committee, but I would like to offer you my best wishes for 2015. I wish you all much prosperity and, above all, good health. We were just talking about cooperation with the Netherlands on the defence of airspace. At the end of October several European NATO nations were spooked by various flights of Russian fighters and bombers. Several European countries have had to deploy their air force to intercept those Russian aircraft. The aircraft remained in international airspace and therefore did not violate any territories, but they were sometimes very close. It is also striking that, at the end of October, more than 100 such interceptions were needed, which is three times as much as in 2013. So there's a clearly changing behavior with the Russians after all. Sweden, which is not a NATO Iid, has also been confronted with a threat on several occasions, recently with a submarine near Stockholm. In addition, it concerns the correlation between flight routes of Russian military flights and civil aviation, which are not transmitted by military flights and are not visible by their defence system to the traffic control of civil airports by transponders. As a result, they pose a risk to traffic control in the air. Belgium is fortunately surrounded by a number of NATO countries and is not immediately in the front zone and will therefore face interceptions later. Mr Minister, I have the following specific questions. Firstly, has Belgium been involved in such incidents with Russian aircraft in the last two years? Secondly, have Belgian forces, on exercise, during a mission abroad, in international waters or in international airspace already faced a similar threat? Thirdly, a large part of our fighter planes have been far away from Belgian territory for operations or exercises in recent years. To what extent are there still sufficient operational fighter aircraft available to protect the territory if necessary?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic046x.u48	Madam President, Mr Hellings, in an effort to respond quickly and firmly to the new security challenges, NATO endorsed the Reactivity Action Plan at the summit held in Wales last September. This plan includes several measures to respond in a coherent and comprehensive manner to the change in security at NATO borders and beyond. It responds to Russia's challenges and their strategic impact. This plan will help ensure the robustness and responsiveness of the Atlantic Alliance, thus enabling it to meet current and future challenges wherever they may come from. It includes measures both to meet the constant insurance needs of the allies and to anticipate the adaptation of the Alliance's strategic military position. Insurance measures include a permanent air, land and sea presence and significant military activity in the Eastern Alliance. In 2015, Belgium will make a substantial contribution to the programme of insurance measures in the above three dimensions, as in the past. The sending of Belgian F-16s to the Baltic countries constitutes a participation in the air plan. As part of the response to the Ukrainian crisis, NATO has decided to strengthen its Air Policing system in countries bordering the Russian Federation. As such, Belgium will strengthen the aircraft in the airspace of the Baltic States from Malbork, Poland. The budget for this eight-month mission is EUR 3.36 million net and 9.72 million gross. The modalities for the implementation of NATO's common rules of engagement for the Air Policing mission are applicable to this operation. In consultation with the member countries, we assume the responsibility of ensuring the integrity of our territory. Thus, we ensure that each aircraft is properly identified and complies with the rules of the Chicago Convention on the Organization of International Civil Aviation. Failure to respect them could lead to negative consequences in terms of aviation safety. The same rules apply in space over international waters. Some Russian offences against the latter have already been found and have therefore required the intervention of NATO aircraft. This type of incident is not limited to the Baltic Sea alone. Incidents have already occurred over the North Sea and the Atlantic Ocean. NATO is in charge of communication with Russia regarding ally patrols and regularly complains about Russian patrols in NATO airspace. As far as international policy is concerned, as presented by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, I do not believe that there is any non-corresponsibility in the so-called 3D approach (diplomacy, defence, development) of our NATO commitments and what is being done at the diplomatic level. Mr Vermeulen, I have just mentioned that Russian aircraft have already been intercepted above the North Sea and the Atlantic. However, we have not yet been involved in interception incidents involving Russian aircraft over our own territory. All interceptions took place by our NATO partners in international airspace over international waters. Over the last two years Belgium has not observed any anomalies in our area of responsibility with regard to flight movements from Russia. You know we're guarding a piece of the North Sea. During the operation Baltic Air Policing in 2013, Belgian F-16 aircraft based in Lithuania intercepted Russian aircraft several times. Especially during the Russian exercise Zapat in September 2013 there was an intensification of Russian activity over the Baltic Sea. At the end of April 2014, the mine hunter Bellis, who was part of the Standing NATO Mine Counter Measures Group One in the Baltic Sea, was hampered by a Russian war base during a diving exercise in the field of mine control. In addition, since May 2014, there have been monthly passages of Russian warships through the Channel, mostly in connection with the redemption of other Russian ships in the Mediterranean Sea. To date, all passages have been accompanied by Ready Duty Ships of the Navy by the Belgian exclusive economic zone. These include the Pollux. These passages are so far flawless. Russian ships follow the prescribed routes and enjoy the right of innocent passage. The deployment of cargo aircraft in operations, including the number of aircraft, is determined by the level of ambition of the Defense Department. It is always ensured that the quick reaction alert is permanently assured that it is our own surveillance service and that the pilots in Belgium have the necessary aircraft to carry out the daily training.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic046x.u49	Minister, thank you. We do not have the same conception of de-escalation. We know that. It is clear that today, in the Ukrainian crisis, de-escalation requires diplomatic intervention and discussion with Russia. Russia is not my preferred state or regime. She certainly sends fighter planes into an airspace where they don't have to be. But it seems to me that if we really want to resolve this conflict that is completely gangrene Eastern Europe, it is a dialogue with them. I think that dialogue by fighter jets is less effective than by other means. I also draw your attention to the budgetary impact you mentioned and the security impact for our men. It would not be a matter of losing a plane, even if they were to be replaced, or, above all, of losing the men there.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic046x.u50	Minister, for our Navy, apparently it was mainly a contact with the Russian Navy during an exercise. For other countries it was much more about physical threats from the Russian Air Force. Probably both will be used primarily to test our immune systems. I fear that in future it will be not so much about physical threats as about electronic or other non-physical threats. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic046x.u51	Madam President, since my question No 717 concerned the F-16s, may I ask you to join the exchange of views scheduled for 15 days?
