ParlaMint-BE_2015-08-31-54-commissie-ic230x.u1	Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are meeting today to discuss the current crisis facing milk producers. Mr Minister, first of all I would like to thank you for your kind meeting with Parliament. Indeed, a European Council, which is likely to be crucial for this sector, is scheduled for 7 September, which is why some members of this committee rightly wanted an exchange of views to be held in your presence on this subject. I want to thank you all the more because you have undergone surgery and you are still recovering. Be aware that I am grateful to you for assuming your duties despite your health problems and that I wish you a speedy and complete recovery. The dairy sector has already experienced a very serious crisis in the summer of 2009, if I am not mistaken. For several weeks or even months, the sector has again experienced great difficulties. I assume you met his representatives before and after the Libramont Agricultural Fair. This crisis is not really a surprise as it is known that the abolition of quotas, from April this year onwards, was announced in 2009. We are therefore entering the post-milk quota with all the foreseeable consequences. On the other hand, we know that the case is complex, which in no way relieves us of our responsibilities. We are faced with overlapping responsibilities between Europe and the Regions. In this area, the federal government does not have direct jurisdiction. However, you are Belgium's spokesperson in the European fora and you are in close consultation with your Flemish and Walloon regional colleagues. In addition, federal tools can be useful to assist the sector. These are all the parameters that we are going to discuss this afternoon. We will also be asked to discuss the political choices and the production model involved. This morning, I read your interview in L'Avenir, which is, so to speak, an introduction to the debate we are dealing with. I imagine we will come back to that because the questions of substance, of production models, are asked. To take up your remarks, "we have to rethink the model". Minister, after hearing you, I propose that we discuss the procedure to be followed. Indeed, I would like to point out that a European Council is planned. The question therefore arises as to whether it is appropriate to organise a debriefing after the latter has been held. We will also see if there are any further demands on the order of work on the crisis in the dairy sector. I would also like to inform colleagues that a full report will be drawn up. There will be no rapporteur, because we are not discussing a bill. Mr Gilkinet asked for the floor. I guess it's about the order of business.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-08-31-54-commissie-ic230x.u2	Mr President, as is the case in other meetings of the Committee on the Economy, we are not going to start a long debate on the order of business. First of all, I would like to thank the President and the Minister for having responded positively to our request for a pre-summit meeting next Monday. This is obviously an urgent matter. As I have already said, our group wishes to be able to hear the relevant actors – representatives of the agricultural world, trade unionists, the MIG (Milcherzeuger Interessengemeinschaft), the FUGEA (United Federation of Farmers' and Farmers' Groups), the Walloon Federation of Agriculture, the distribution sector which has associated itself with an agreement which the Minister will probably detail to us and the processing sector. I think it is necessary to elaborate on this subject which I had already discussed with the minister in oral questions concerning the end of milk quotas. We will therefore be able to discuss this after discussing the organization of work. Having said that, I invite everyone to think about the people to invite, in accordance with my group's explicit request to hold additional hearings. We would like them to take place, if possible, before the summit, even if it is technically a little complicated, I agree, since it will take place next Monday. I reiterate my thanks for your presence and respect for our request.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-08-31-54-commissie-ic230x.u3	Thank you, Mr Gilkinet. We take note of your request. We'll get back to it. It seems to me appropriate to begin our exchange of views and then to see what follow-up we will give to our work. I am thinking in particular of your proposal. Minister, you have the floor to give us your analysis, your views and that of the government, as well as the proposals that are on the table to try to help the milk producer sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-08-31-54-commissie-ic230x.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I thank you for the opportunity to discuss and take stock of a matter of great concern and complexity, which concerns different aspects of the functioning of the market and the future of a large number of men and women who devote their lives to the production of food, products and to culture and land. This is a case where the visions that can be recorded, regardless of the European country, are sometimes different. The chance of news is good because, as you mentioned, the channel's concertation has just communicated the results of its work. In addition, in this week prior to the extraordinary Council of 7 September, we are in a period of consultation at Belgian level and of contact at international level. In addition, we are in contact with the Commission. This morning, together with regional ministers Joke Schauvliege and René Collin, I met with Commissioner Phil Hogan in order to prepare as best as possible for the meeting on 7 September on which expectations are legitimately expressed. They are considerable not only for the immediate but also for the long term. I am fully aware of and concerned about the continuing decline in the price of milk and pigmeat. That is or is becoming very disturbing for our farmers. In addition, other sectors, such as the fruit sector and the vegetable sector, are experiencing difficulties, and there are medium-term concerns, for example in the beef sector. I also use this committee meeting to answer the parliamentary questions put by Mr Gilkinet and Mrs Gantois. For all these sectors, I will explain the market situation and the factors affecting prices. Mr President, I shall then turn to the measures that have already been taken and the measures that I hope will be taken shortly, with the view that the matter has been regionalised to a large extent. I will start with the measures relating to the milk sector, then I will explain them for the pig sector. The real milk price in Belgium, paid to producers, has fallen in recent months to 28.2 cents per litre in June 2015. That is 9.4 cents per litre lower than the price in June 2014, before the Russian embargo. The milk price paid to the producer decreased by 28,1 % between the second quarter of 2014 and the same quarter of 2015. That price is therefore now lower than the production costs of our milk producers. Between the first quarter of 2014 and the same quarter of 2015, total Belgian exports of milk powder decreased by 10.8%. In general, the milk market today is negatively affected by the Russian embargo, of course, by an oversupply of milk, by surplus stocks in China, by the abolition of quotas on 1 April 2015 and by the storage of dairy products butter and milk powder in the European Union. Other variables could have a positive effect on the price of milk in the long term. I am thinking here of the significant weakening of the euro, which boosts our exports, and of a far-sighted milk industry, which has made considerable investments to have modern production sites of competitive size. The increase in the wealth of the population in growing countries such as China and India, and the growth of the world's population, also play a role. Our milk sector has unconditional assets, which I hope will make the most of, namely the favourable climate conditions, the know-how of our producers and a positive and quality image of our products. The Russian embargo on food from the European Union, Norway, Australia, Canada and the United States was proclaimed by Vladimir Putin on Wednesday 6 August 2014 for a minimum period of one year. That embargo was extended for an additional year at the end of June 2015. The embargo itself has a limited impact on our exports, because before the embargo only 3% of milk and pigmeat were exported to the Russian Federation. However, the embargo has contributed to a disorganisation of the market and of the European internal market. Each Member State tries to sell its supplies to its neighbours. The Belgian dairy sector, which accounts for more than 60% of its turnover through exports, is therefore seriously affected by this political decision, which amounts to more than EUR 3 billion out of a total of EUR 5.4 billion. Due to the embargo, in September 2014, the European Commission adopted measures to regulate the market and stabilise prices, in particular the granting of aid to private storage and public intervention for butter and skimmed milk powder at intervention prices. The period of support to private storage and public intervention runs until September 2015 at this stage. At the European Council in July 2015, European Agriculture Commissioner Phil Hogan stressed that the measures would be extended. As at 23 August 2015, total private storage for all 28 Member States amounted to 138,510 tonnes of butter, of which 11,272 tonnes in Belgium, and 43,637 tonnes of milk powder, of which 500 tonnes in Belgium. Some of the stocks have been put back on the market, but it is nevertheless noted that these European stocks, in general, are increasing significantly. Currently, the public intervention price guaranteed to farmers by the European Commission is EUR 221.75 per 100 kg for butter and EUR 169.8 per 100 kg for skimmed milk powder, while the equivalent market prices as at 16 August 2015 are for butter at EUR 271.06 per 100 kg and EUR 171.95 per 100 kg for skimmed milk powder, respectively. As the price of milk powder, as you see, is approaching the intervention price, some Belgian dairies have started selling their production since 20 July to the Commission for a volume of 3,861 tonnes. It should be noted that only five countries had at that time requested public intervention for milk powder since 20 July and that the countries that requested intervention were Belgium, Germany, the United Kingdom, Lithuania and Poland, for a total of 8,859 tonnes. I wanted to give you this photograph of the situation and to translate it in figures so that we could have as precise and detailed a view as possible of the current situation of prices, of the use of intervention and of the elements of European decision-making. I shall, of course, take a second step, as announced, to refer to the measures. I start with an update on the situation and I turn to pork meat. The pigmeat sector, which has around 4 500 holdings in Belgium, is also seriously affected. The Russian health embargo on pigmeat – and I am talking about the health embargo that, following the identification of swine fever problems, was prior to the geopolitical embargo, to describe it as such – was introduced in February 2014. The situation in this sector has therefore been going on for a longer time. It was after the African swine fever cases were found in Poland and Lithuania that the embargo was imposed. It's still in effect. What is the price trend in this area? The price of Class E pork carcasses, for those who are very familiar with the sector, decreased by 21.8% in the last quarter of 2014 compared to the same period in 2013, before the Russian health embargo. More recently, this price fell by 14.5% between the second quarter of 2014 and the same quarter of 2015. These are therefore successive declines. If I take another reference price, in this case the piglets of 23 kilos, it decreased between January 29, 2014 - before the embargo - and August 13, 2015, by 43%. What about exports? Extra-Community exports of pigmeat have decreased by 23.6% if I take the period between September and November 2014 as the reference period compared to the same period in 2013. Within the European Union, Belgian exports also decreased by 16.3% to the other Member States. To set the figures, I would remind you that in 2014, 11 million pigs were slaughtered in Belgium and 66% of their meat was exported. Overall, the price of pork is now negatively influenced by the indirect cascading consequences of market disruption as a result of the Russian embargo, by overproduction, by a number of anti-meat-consumption discourses, and perhaps also by provisions related to the origin labelling of meat, which have been mandatory since 1 April 2015 and which have had a more negative impact on highly exporting countries as we are. I would like to draw attention to the fact that, when one is a highly exporting country, one must be very vigilant with regard to provisions which, in particular, aim to better identify the origins, bearing in mind that other provisions are still under discussion, but this is another aspect to which I shall return at a later stage. Among the factors which it is hoped will positively promote prices and increase consumption, let us again note: - changes in consumption linked to changes in the standard of living, - the increase in the world population, - as well as agreements with a number of countries whose economies are emerging. The consumption of meat in Belgium has fallen in recent years. According to the Economy FPS data, total Belgian meat consumption fell by 8 % over the period 2005-2013, while meat consumption in general increased by 15 % over the period 2007-2014. This is therefore a different situation on the Belgian internal market compared to the total consumption on the international meat market. This is due in particular to an increase in consumption in emerging countries and, again, to an increase in the population. At the end of February 2015, the European Commission decided to support private storage to regulate the market and stabilise prices. In this way, 60 000 tonnes of pigmeat were withdrawn from the market over a period of eight weeks. That punctual measure is now over. I shall now explain the measures taken. At federal level, I have already taken several measures that apply. First of all, several studies were requested from the Belgian Prize Observatory in order to make an accurate assessment of the situation of agricultural products. For example, after a meeting with the agricultural syndicates in January 2015, I asked for the targeted study on the pig sector to be updated. It was published in May 2015. I also ordered an accurate study on the impact of the Russian embargo in terms of prices and exports for the milk, fruit, vegetable and pig sectors. Those studies shall be updated quarterly. Secondly, at the end of 2014, a series of measures were taken to give farmers financial breathing space. A first measure is the consolidation of tax exemption measures linked to CAP aid, which provides the agricultural sector with an estimated profit of EUR 20 million per year. A second measure is the reduction of the contributions to the Animal Health Fund for the sector "Runding' of EUR 4 million and the abolition of the contributions to the sector "Raws' of EUR 3.6 million for the year 2014. This measure represents a total profit of EUR 7.6 million for those two sectors. A third measure concerns the payment of social security contributions to farmers. New financial and structural measures were then adopted at the end of June 2015. In financial terms, I have obtained the extension of the abolition of contributions to the Animal Health Fund for pigs for 2015, a further 57% reduction in contributions to the Animal Health Fund for bovine animals in 2015 and the postponement of social contributions to farmers. On a structural level, I obtained the quasi-doublement of the International Relations Service of the BFSA, which is responsible for exporting Belgian agricultural products to third countries, guaranteeing their sanitary standards. This was done through an additional budget envelope of almost EUR 1.5 million per year. This should make it possible to conclude new bilateral sanitary agreements with a view to increasing our exports. As far as the BFSA is concerned, I have decided to set up an accompaniment cell within the BFSA for the supervision of small producers. In order to promote our exports, I would also like to intensify bilateral meetings with the representatives of third countries in order to remove the sanitary barriers in third countries. Since the beginning of the legislature, I have met my Brazilian colleague and the Chinese ambassador several times. At the beginning of June 2015, I also went to China to sign a memorandum of understanding. Moreover, I do not rule out the possibility of going back to China or other countries at the end of the year if my presence or support allows for the export of new or other agricultural products. In addition to these achievements, I also study, together with the other competent federal ministers, other ideas, particularly fiscal and banking ideas. For example, I recently held several meetings in my cabinet with the main banking institutions and their federation Febelfin, the representatives of the agricultural sectors, the regional ministers and my colleague, Deputy Prime Minister Kris Peeters. The banks have committed themselves to raising awareness of agricultural holdings in financial difficulties in the short term in order to be able to discuss appropriate, tailored solutions. In the medium term, together with the agricultural sector and the regional and federal authorities, an analysis will be made of the structural and regulatory changes that could be made at regional, federal or European level with a view to a lasting improvement in the situation in the agricultural sector. We have also decided to set up a task force composed of representatives of the sectors and public authorities concerned to ensure a continuous monitoring of the financial situation and the situation in general. As far as taxation is concerned, I have asked the Federal Minister for Finance to analyse the mechanisms for recovering the tax losses suffered by farmers. This concerns the carry-back and carry-forward mechanisms. After all, the government agreement stipulates that consideration will be given to whether a carry-back scheme could be implemented for the agricultural sector for losses due to weather conditions. In addition to the weather conditions, this study could be extended to other circumstances. In addition, I actively support the chain consultations that the agricultural federation, the distribution sector (Comeos) and the food sector (FEVIA) bring together through the organisation of meetings in my cabinet with the Federal Minister of Economy and the Regional Ministers of Agriculture. I also make available the instruments of the chain consultation which are essential for a sound negotiation, including in particular the FPS Economy, which aims not only to collect objective and official figures, but which is also the Competition Authority. The various meetings held on 26 August, in particular in my office and during the weekend, not only provided an accurate picture of the situation, but also led to an agreement that I would like to describe as exceptional, even though it is known that this agreement – and I stress this point – is only one of the answers to the agricultural crisis. I would like to congratulate and thank the actors involved in the concertation of the channel, and in particular its President Piet Vanthemsche, for the extraordinary work done, because the approach was not obvious. If I allow myself to describe this agreement as exceptional, it is because it concerns the dairy sector and the pig sector. The amounts concerned for the dairy sector are EUR 46 million and for the pig sector EUR 30 million. Short-term aid would result in an increase in the price of milk paid to producers by dairies of 2.7 cents per litre of milk for a period of 6 months. In order to be able to pass on this increase paid directly to the producer, the increase in the price of consumer milk purchased and distributed in Belgium would be calculated over a period of 8 months so that this increase remains sustainable for the consumer. The precise figures of this increase will be communicated shortly by the partners of the concertation of the chain. It should be stressed that the citizen-consumer is committed to a vision of the agricultural world and to the need for a fair remuneration for the work of the producer, even if this results in an increase in the price for an 8-month period of up to a total amount of EUR 46 million for the dairy sector. What is original in relation to what we knew in 2009, is to target the pig sector as well. I recalled that the crisis in the pig sector is older and deeper now than the crisis in the milk sector. So we, the players in the chain and myself, were very strongly concerned that the agreement on the concertation of the chain should also aim at the valorisation of pork. This recovery of a total amount of EUR 30 million will take the form of a lump sum which will be paid per sow present on pig farms. In concrete terms, any sow holder on a pig holding will receive a lump sum amount, the refined calculation of which will be communicated within the next few hours by the chain concertation. I would of course like to respect the ultimate validation of the declination of these figures. On the other hand, the second part of the work carried out – and this is where I also stress the very specific and exceptional nature of the work carried out in the concertation – is to be able to create a structural interprofessional mechanism designed to stabilise the prices of the two productions concerned in the long term. The aim is therefore to provide immediate assistance but also to put in place, in a refined manner, a mechanism that will be able to smooth price changes over time, which was an understandable expectation of the world of distribution in particular. I would like to add that the partners of the chain intend to present to Europe the mechanism that has been set up at national level and ask that Europe be able to study it, not only to allow it at national level but also to draw on it in thinking about market management. Finally, I would like to point out that the fact that the crisis has a strong impact on pork and milk does not negate the fact that we are aware that the beef sector itself is beginning to show signs of concern like other more specific sectors. I am at your disposal to make further progress on this aspect. After these elements relating to the concertation of the chain, I come to export. It seems to me very important, as far as exports are concerned, to ensure that our efforts are united. Of course, this competence is regional, while the responsibility for health negotiations lies with the federal government. I can tell you, to be in touch with many of my counterparts, that if our processing companies are not present in these foreign markets, our competitors will only ask to take the place we could have occupied immediately. I therefore hope that the Russia task force can be extended, of course as far as possible and with respect for the respective competences. The decision has already been taken in consultation with the Minister for Foreign Affairs, whom I thank, because of the prolongation of the embargo. On the other hand, I would like this place – at a minimum – of consultation and exchange on certain strategies to be maintained so as to make this collaboration between the different levels of power, but also between the different sectors of processing, as well as the Federal Agency for Food Chain Security (AFSCA), the Walloon Agency for Export and Foreign Investment (AWEX) or the Flanders Investment and Trade (FIT) in order to remove certain export barriers and to be as relevant and offensive as possible in export markets. Dear friends and colleagues, this description of the situation, of the efforts made at national level, of those who are doing so in concert with the chain, of the measures that I have taken and of the measures that the regional authorities have taken or are going to take must of course not escape the question of our position vis-à-vis the European Commission or that of its own position. The most important levers for action in terms of agricultural policy are at European level, since it has been largely integrated and the crisis is transversal. You know that countries like France are also affected by the agricultural crisis. We have therefore, together with France, insisted that this exceptional European Council should meet. It was therefore very soon after the Libramont Fair that the Luxembourg Presidency organised the meeting on 7 September. In response to a question put by Mr Gilkinet or Mrs Gantois, the issue of markets and the agricultural crisis is on the Council's agenda. The details of the agenda are not communicated to us until very late in view of the date on which this meeting is to take place. We do not yet have the final version of that agenda, but we know, in any case, that the agenda is about market developments and the agricultural situation. That point had already been raised at the Ordinary Council last July. The Belgian position will be based on certain elements. We therefore hope that the increase in intervention prices for milk, like other Member States or agricultural organisations, will be included on the relevant Council agenda. As we know, the intervention price has not been updated for several years. Raising it could be a sign for the market as it is often the beacon to which the market refers in a number of trades. We also want this price to be revalued, modified and adapted, irrespective of its increase, in the light of developments, in particular observed by the European Price Observatory. On the other hand, we want negotiations with Russia on the health embargo to be opened or intensified. Let us be clear: I am not talking here about the geopolitical embargo. It is therefore not a question of the matters covered by the latter, but of the health embargo on which we have important work to do. We also want the European Price Observatory to become a much more efficient tool, adapted to the expectations of the agricultural world and the Member States, by extending its price statements to include production costs. Indeed, price collection is one thing. The measurement of margins, production costs, organisation and regional price declines across Europe are also important elements. And then, as far as methods of measuring production costs are concerned, we want to be able to set standards for reference elements by product and geographical area, as well as to agree on minimum profit margins that are essential for the life – I do not even say survival – of farms. At the same time, we want to open the debate on the determination of new thresholds and beacons of crisis. We know that preventive and intervention measures need to be more closely aligned with market developments, where prices are increasingly volatile and where there is an increasing degree of variation. We also call for increased support from the Commission to promote extra-Community exports. We would also like it, apart from the current programmes, to dramatically increase support for domestic consumption policies. We also want a specific programme dedicated to innovation and research in the processing and valorisation of our products – whether they already exist or are new. We would also like, together with the Regions, to be allowed – in order to address the cash flow problems of the farms – to liquidate direct aid to farmers as early as 16 October, or as soon as possible after that date. Above all, we want new safety nets. That is what I referred to in referring to the limitations of the current system which requires us to reflect on new safety nets for agricultural prices, in particular by setting temporary mechanisms, perhaps limited geographically, and new quota mechanisms if the situation so requires and through this mechanism, new safety nets. During the last three weeks, I have had the opportunity to meet and talk with the Luxembourg Presidency, to talk with my French colleague, to be kept informed of a number of notes which are in preparation for the summit of 7 September 2015 on the Central and Eastern European initiative, on the initiative of France. I also had the opportunity, along with my colleagues, to be in regular contact with the regional ministers to take stock of all possible levers for action, as well as to agree on the Belgian position to be adopted at this next extraordinary European Council on 7 September 2015. This Belgian position, which, as you know, is a significant part of the decision taken by the Regions, is currently being drawn up. It will be refined this week in consultation with a number of other countries and, following our meeting this morning with the European Commissioner, we would like to try to include the main elements of the Belgian position in a document which we hope will be presented by a significant number of countries, next Monday at the Council meeting, with significant majority support. You probably saw the communication of 26 August 2015 which was the subject of a Belga dispatch by Commissioner Phil Hogan in which he acknowledged and acknowledged the difficulties of the agricultural world in Europe. There was, in this communication, a more important opening tone than before. Moreover, it is well known that the Commission's intention is to come with a precise plan whose contours are not currently set, so as to give priority to the two sectors which we have dealt with mainly today, namely the dairy sector and the pig sector. As far as the pig sector is concerned, it should also be noted that in this communication the Commissioner acknowledged the lack of effective results of the private storage aid granted at the beginning of the year until the end of April 2015. Indeed, storage measures have, of course, an interest only if their duration is sufficiently long, their arrangements sufficiently flexible not to bring back quantities of meat or products on the market at a time when it remains fragile, otherwise the return of storage to the market will amplify this fragility rather than ensure a restoration, a rehabilitation of the market. This was observed with regard to pig storage at the beginning of the year. As you know, the expectations of this Council are extremely important, ladies and gentlemen, whether in the head of producers, Member States or a number of actors, experts or politicians. Mr President, I'm sorry I've been a little long, but I think the matter required it. In conclusion, I am convinced that it is important for all actors, agricultural or other, that all levels of power be mobilised in order to identify strong measures within the framework of each person's competences. Since the beginning of this crisis, I have been – you observe – totally listening, mobilised, determined and combative. Our producers of milk, but also of pork, fruit and vegetables, beef or other products subject to speculation, deserve fair remuneration. I have recalled this at the beginning of my remarks, and I say it again in conclusion: this fair remuneration also corresponds to the importance of the mission which is theirs: to feed people, to feed the planet. This mission obliges us more than ever to be relevant and effective in our actions and decisions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-08-31-54-commissie-ic230x.u5	Thank you, Minister, for your very comprehensive presentation. She contained a lot of elements. I have two technical questions at the moment. Firstly, could we have your text for the services, for the report and for the members of the committee? The text contains many figures and information. So it would be useful for everyone. Secondly, four oral questions were added to this discussion. I am addressing the proposers. Mrs Gantois, you have tabled two questions. Would you like to take the floor in the general discussion, which would mean that the questions would lapse? The same applies to Mr. Gilkinet. If the content of your question is included in the exchange of views, it will be included in the full account of your question. Your question should therefore no longer be taken up separately. You are therefore integrating your questions into your intervention in the framework of the exchange of views. Is this accepted by all? Mrs. Gantois? [[Yes]] Mr. Gilkinet? [[Oui]] Who wishes to speak in the general discussion? We will begin with the two members who had tabled oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-08-31-54-commissie-ic230x.u6	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your presence and for your very comprehensive explanation. I am glad that we will get the text later, because it is very difficult to follow and write down everything. I have prepared a brief speech and I will bring it to you as well. Before that, I'd like to tell you that I'm very happy with what's happening right now. There are sometimes very small positive aspects to a crisis. In this case, we are all pulling together and for the first time all the agricultural associations, including the Walloon from across the language border, have sat and supported each other. It is very positive for agriculture when these agricultural associations are finally pulling the same strings instead of working against each other. That is very positive and I am very happy about that. The situation in agriculture is not new. There are embargo debt holders, the Chinese market is no longer attracted and there is the abolition of quotas: that is a lot combined and that makes it a lot more difficult. The N-VA remains in favour of free market forces, in which we avoid political or government interference as much as possible. However, policy can provide tools and space to allow entrepreneurs to stand up individually for their rights and earn their living in a clean way. We must do so with respect for the powers of all levels. I think I can see that all levels work together on a single global agricultural policy. That is very important at this time. After all, we have to ask ourselves where we want to go with our quality farming. We have them, with very good managers and very good products. How can we help ensure viable, financially sound and manageable businesses? That is four very important elements. As I have already said, the agricultural associations are now sitting together. The consultation between the Competition Authority and the chain consultation is also very good. You said just now that the expected support for milk and pork will be there. There's been consultation with FEVIA and Comeos. There is now a temporary price support, whereby temporary debt securities are an important word. We must work towards the goal of a stable market and stable prices. Minister, you will indeed have to work very closely with your colleague from the Economy, Minister Peeters. In our view, it is very important that the Price Observatory conducts research into the production price. How much does a liter of milk cost effectively before it arrives on the market? Within the chain talks, it should be argued that there should be no reduction at a lower price than that production price. After all, no company can survive if it does not even get the production price back. If all the burdens and risks are placed on the producers, they are likely to disappear one by one and they will be forced to give up. I am not talking about the social aspect: bankruptcies, divorces and great social misery. As far as the chain talks are concerned, we have the right to tip the competition authority in the chain talks. The Competition Authority can then ultimately assume the role of a watchdog on prices and operation, as an independent body, of course. We are also asking for sensible regulations that support SMEs, and therefore farmers, without, of course, restricting their freedom of enterprise. You can use your department to ensure that more is used to build reserves. The business model has changed over the years in such a way that more and more commitment is made to one element of agriculture, while risk-sharing and control have been much easier in the past. I believe that we must once again raise our young farmers' awareness of the importance of risk-sharing and control. We also need better supervision by the Competition Authority so that disputes between suppliers and customers can be dealt with collectively. I haven't heard much about that. We are wondering whether it is also a reflection to be able to work on fiscal measures. You mentioned a number of them, namely carry-back and carry-forward. That's actually a complicated system. There are negative derogations for small SMEs and self-employed people that we could eliminate. I am thinking, for example, of the flat-rate tax credit, the tax credit to which flat-rate workers are currently not entitled. All small SME debt securities and a number of farmers are included. This could also help. As you have said yourself, the regions must, in view of their powers, advocate a well-designed marketing and focus on innovation, diversity and exports. As you have mentioned a number of times, exports are a matter for the regions, but it is of course good if you find each other there. I believe that at the end of your speech you also said something about the European demands package. We really need to think about product and supply control. We therefore ask you to put this item on the table explicitly on 7 September. I don't want to say too much about storage right now. In a number of previous questions, I pointed out that storing too many products would remove them from the market in order to make the price a little more stable if they were to be thrown back on the market six months later. That just makes the price go down again. Mr Minister, time will tell, but I think we really must strive for a non-subsidised agriculture with fair prices. In this way, we can break the vicious circle of increasing production at ever lower prices, which currently exists in agriculture.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-08-31-54-commissie-ic230x.u7	Mr President, Minister, I do not fully share the positive assessment of the action you have taken on the subject, which was developed by the colleague from the N-VA. I'm not saying nothing has been done. Obviously, you were active on the case this summer. Small solutions have been found, but they appear, in relation to the agricultural problem, as a patchstone on a wooden leg. So far, we have not acted on the basis of the agricultural problem, which is clearly overproduction both globally and at European level. That is why we have great hope for Monday's meeting and we want to hear from you. Minister, we come from the same regions. We know dairy farmers personally. I think you have, like me, stomach pain because we know that they work every day, getting up early and sleeping late, at a loss. No one agrees to work for less than his or her job costs. This situation is catastrophic. It leads to sometimes dramatic situations in families. I don't need to add it to the pathos. We can ask ourselves what will remain of a quality and human-sized agriculture tomorrow. The consequences of the lack of accelerated regulation through the abolition of European quotas are enormous in economic terms with the disappearance of SMEs and artisans who fall into bankruptcy. They are also enormous in social terms, with the destruction of entire families, but also in terms of the rural and environmental economy. Those who disappear are those who had a quality approach, the most differentiated and with the strongest biodiversity approach. I was wondering about the agreement that we were informed of this morning. You sponsored him. You are not a co-signatory but you have facilitated it between producers and the distribution sector. Of course, I'm not going to complain that 2 to 3 cents more will be paid to dairy producers for x months. Ideally, this should be longer and lasting longer structurally. I note, and I have learned from your presentation, that this additional remuneration will be at the expense of consumers, while we can legitimately question the margins that are being taken in the processing and distribution of these products. It is not only that, as consumers, we cannot take a gesture of solidarity with an economic sector that is experiencing difficulties, but I think there are other mechanisms to question. The question of supply control seems central to us. Current overproduction results in products paid to dairy producers that are insufficient as processors compete. We produce too much, whatever the quality. The system doesn't work anymore. You have carefully used the concept of a temporary quota mechanism in regions where there would suddenly be too much production. In the end, it is limiting this central issue, which for us is overproduction in agricultural matters, to little. This is not a temporary and localized problem, it is a structural problem that needs to be addressed. It is a failure of the agricultural policy that we are living here. The quota policy was certainly not perfect, especially in the context of its evolution, but it had the merit of existence. Agricultural aid policy also has the merit of existence, but the fact that it is not capped and favours the largest producers is another problem. I have a more specific question for you. You said you had made several contacts with the European Commissioner and your colleagues from other countries. At European level, is the question of supply limitation and control of production volumes questionable beyond temporary and localised formulae? For us it is really the crux of the problem: to control the supply to have remunerative prices for the producers. Secondly, and here we come to national legislation, there are questions of minimum prices. Resellers are prohibited from selling at a loss. You can't buy a garment for 100 euros and sell it for 90 euros to try to attract the customer. This is the legislation that the Minister of Economy must enforce. Why can we accept that the price of a litre of milk produced is for the producer of 40 cents – this can vary depending on the farms, their economic structure, their investment, etc. – and they pay him 32 cents? Who can accept this? Is it not just normal to set a minimum selling price that ensures that no one has to work at a loss? You, Mr Borsus, are not going to pay to be a minister even if the function is interesting! You're not going to tap into your personal tape to hold this function, either! It's from another time. All work deserves a salary. No one's gonna do it, because it's something that belongs to another time. Is it conceivable, during your discussions with the Minister of Economy Peeters, that a form of cliquet should be introduced into national legislation to prevent sales below the production price? I would like to address the issue of quality. You surprised me when you explained that, in terms of the export of pigmeat, the identification of its origin was a brake on the demand for Belgian pigmeat in foreign markets. That disappoints me very much. If the Belgian label guaranteed quality in all cases, it would be an asset. Minister, one litre of milk does not equal another litre of milk. One kilo of pork is not equivalent to another kilo of pork. I suppose you know that as a consumer. You have as good a fork as mine, you enjoy quality products. We are in a country that, generally and traditionally, is a quality producer. This label can be better valued and paid in a differentiated manner as long as it is worked on. I admit I'm deviating from regional expertise. I'm totally aware of that. Nevertheless, I am surprised that, in all your reasoning, there is no reference to this differentiated quality which characterizes a large part of the Belgian producers. You're consulting with your regional counterparts. So this is not directly within your jurisdiction, but you have addressed certain aspects that were no longer within your jurisdiction. I feel a kind of flight forward in this desire to open up more export markets for our producers. Quality should first be promoted. Additional markets can open up to Belgian labels – Walloon, Flemish or German-speaking. But you take an escape by imagining that, suddenly, the markets will open. For us, agriculture must, first and foremost, feed – in a rather autarchic system – local people, regardless of the country concerned. For the rest, if there is a climate problem or there is an overpopulation, products can come from elsewhere. Nevertheless, the agricultural model is mainly centred on nearby regions. I believe that the European market can be an almost self-sufficient market, provided that it is regulated and that quality approaches are further developed. At the tax level, I mean solutions that can be interesting, such as expanding the mechanisms for carrying out losses or smoothing profits, so as to have a more constant income, regardless of the circumstances, today's climate, but also market circumstances. I will ask the Minister of Finance, but I think it is important to ensure that it is limited to certain areas that warrant it. I believe that the agricultural sector certainly justifies this. If we extend it to the infinite, it can also have a completely disproportionate public cost. I have not heard of any specific aid for agricultural diversification. It is understood that by diversifying the type of production, market effects can be limited. More and more of our farmers want to develop a short-circuit agriculture, with shops on the farm, with the difficulties associated with it and on which you are regularly questioned. There, I am also asking the minister in charge of oversight of the AFSCA. Still in this logic of quality and proximity, of contact between the producer and the consumer, is there no need to help those who wish to do so? In the current state of affairs, it is not all farmers, but more and more farmers, as more and more people choose the organic sector. In fact, they meet a demand for proximity, differentiated quality, taste. These are a whole series of questions which, at this stage, I think the answers are insufficient. I do not want to be unpleasant with you because we are here in a dialogue but I have a less positive assessment than my colleague who has already spoken and perhaps others who will speak after me about the measures that are being taken and which do not respond to the structural challenges of the agricultural world: control of production and valorisation of a quality of which we are fortunate that it still exists in our terroirs. My concern as a consumer and as a political leader is that this quality disappears with its economic, social and environmental consequences. So you have an extraordinary responsibility in this matter. It is for this reason that I would also like to be able to hear representatives of the sectors concerned in this committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-08-31-54-commissie-ic230x.u8	Mr President, first of all, I would like to thank the speakers and I welcome this committee today. Ten years ago I was a Member of Parliament and ten years ago I defended the agricultural sector, which is an economic sector in its own right. The current crisis really deserves to be looked at in order to find solutions. I will not repeat the history of quotas. Minister, you made a good presentation. You have given us the necessary information, the necessary figures, and I thank you for that. Having said that, we have to deal with the European Commission on which we depend. Each Member State defends certain positions. But the exit of quotas is now effective. Following this exit, we are confronted with the problem of price and overproduction. It is up to politicians to play their part. The decision that was therefore taken by the Commission a few years ago - I am not referring here to certain political parties - and we must now move forward and find solutions. As you said, Minister, in parallel with the crisis in the dairy sector, we are facing the swine crisis. There is also the problem of meat in general and cereals. It is therefore the whole agricultural sector that is currently in crisis. If we consider the price of cereals, we can see that the price of rapeseed fell by 10 euros last week. There is also the issue of the cattle sector. However, if the problem is to be considered as a whole, it is now for the dairy sector that there is an urgent need. I would also like to take this opportunity to thank you, Minister, for your unwavering investment. There was the Libramont Fair which is an important event for the whole sector. But right before that event, you had taken the problem with your arm-to-body. As you said, there are a number of reasons why quotas should be lifted. I would remind you that we have already experienced a crisis in the dairy sector in 2009, when quotas still existed. I have an opportunity to discuss with industry representatives or union representatives. Mechanisms must be put in place. Should these be quotas? I am not here to comment on this issue. But it is still necessary to put in place mechanisms. Indeed, in my view, returning to quotas is not the solution. But ways must be found to regulate milk prices and milk production. As you said earlier, the problem of this crisis is accentuated for a number of reasons, including the embargo and Chinese stocks. However, various measures have indeed been taken by the federal government, but the majority of agricultural expertise is now regionalized. Whenever Belgium had to defend a position before the European Commission, an agreement between the two regions was necessary. The federal government has a mission in this regard, and I welcome the consultations you have with the regional ministers. In this way, we can better help this sector. We will not talk again about the measures taken in favour of the status of the self-employed. Among the tax provisions, carryback is a possible solution in the short term, especially for the agricultural sector that is going through a crisis. As for support measures, such as export development, as soon as you joined the government, you took this direction. With regard to the Awards Observatory, good cooperation with Minister Peeters will be necessary. You have met with representatives of the banking world, who also have a mission in this regard. For price safety nets, we look forward to the Council meeting next Monday. Of course we need to promote agricultural products, but we also need to see how this safety net can be developed. The agreement reached today bodes well. Minister, you have been working with your Walloon and Flemish counterparts. Is this a common position that will be defended at the extraordinary Council of Ministers next Monday? The convening of this meeting is of the utmost importance to me, as it is a strong signal to the Commission that it is aware of the problems. So far, the European Commission's position was in favour of the abolition of quotas. In any case, in the short term, a solution will have to be found in terms of price and quantity regulation. Some measures have already been taken. The case you will be defending on Monday is solid, but you will have to get approval, especially since the positions differ greatly from one Member State to another. You have explained the various mechanisms in terms of safety net and production. We will have the opportunity to meet again after 7 September to hear the results of the discussion with Europe. There is a real need to put the problem of regulation into good shape at the present time. It is clear that Belgium is one of the Member States with the lowest prices compared to other European Member States. We have a big problem with transformation. I believe that milk processing can bring added value to the sector. Milk powder and butter is already very good but we could have a different transformation and invest. When I was a Walloon parliamentarian, I visited a company in Luxembourg that carried out these transformations. When you have meetings with your Flemish and Walloon counterparts, could you not consider investing with them in dairy processing? Could we not add value to our sector in the Walloon Region? I will finish my speech by giving you some testimonies of the field, of people who are really in distress. I met farmers this weekend – and I'm not talking about young people who took over a farm four or five years ago, who are in an even more difficult situation – but about 45- and 50-year-old farmers who have invested and who say they have to draw on their cash, on their savings every month, while they work. They work, but they don't make a living. You know these testimonies. That must be an issue for us. It is also a question of putting this economic and non-environmental sector back at the heart of the agricultural project. I think it is an economic sector that needs to be given added value. There is employment both upstream and downstream. I would like to pay particular attention to this sector. I also heard the term "human-scale exploitation". In Belgium, we have human-sized farms. We're not in England or America.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-08-31-54-commissie-ic230x.u9	Mr President, I would like to begin by thanking you for the initiative to convene a committee meeting on the crisis at the official recess. That's not obvious. I would also like to thank the Minister for having given time to exchange views with us. He has already provided a lot of information, which has already answered a lot of questions. I am very pleased with that. I am also pleased that we have not been too strict on the agenda. At first I was somewhat disappointed when I looked at the agenda. At first glance, it was only about the milk crisis, and there is also a pig crisis that has been going on for a long time and deserves a debate. Thank you, Minister, for giving us a wider debate and also for paying attention to the pig sector. It seems clear to me that both sectors are in a serious crisis. In my view, farmers' actions at the end of July were quite justified. They are facing a severe crisis. The water is on their lips. It's actually an existential crisis. What else can be done in the milk and pig sectors in our country? Mr Minister, you have explained the various causes in detail. I am not going to talk about that. The question is how we should deal with it. What solutions do we have in mind? I believe that we need to look at long-term structural measures, but we also need short-term measures to give the sector some oxygen very quickly. We have to work on two levels. Public authorities must assume their responsibilities, but there is also the chain consultation. As far as public authorities are concerned, Europe is the highest level. I support your vision of consulting with other Member States so that our position can be given greater support to the European Council. That seems to me to be a good vision. It also seems important to me that the various partners should always join forces. Only in this way can something be achieved. The discussions between the agricultural organizations and Comeos at the end of July have shown this. At that time, the representatives agreed on a number of concrete measures, which could then be proposed to the Agriculture Council at the end of August. Do you have any idea of the specific measures that have resulted from the consultation? Will these measures be proposed at the European Agriculture Council? The same exercise took place in France and Spain. There, too, consultations were held with the agricultural organizations and an agreement was reached. In France, an agreement was reached on a price increase of 4 cents per litre, which would have to pay EUR 340 per 1000 litres of milk. In Spain, an agreement was reached to allocate around EUR 300 per cow to companies selling their milk at a loss. These are very concrete measures. Mr Minister, I would have liked to know whether such slopes were being investigated here too. Is this a good idea for our sector, or do you think that such measures do not apply here for various reasons? I would have liked to have had your views on that. You, along with my fellow Members, have rightly pointed out on several occasions that 7 September is a very crucial day, because then the European Agriculture Council will take place. You have already explained the agenda of the Agriculture Council, so that question from my questions has already been answered. Following that European Agriculture Council, European Commissioner for Agriculture Hogan has already stated that he is not in favour of measures that could harm market orientation. Minister, I would have liked to have heard your views on this. Are you in favour of short-term measures that are market-correcting, such as temporary production restrictions? In your opinion, is this a good measure or rather a bad one? You have indicated that you have already been in contact with several other European Agriculture Ministers, hoping to obtain support. Could you perhaps give us a hint of the veil about your expectations about this? Which countries could you reach an agreement with or which countries do you share your opinion with? You were right to say that the expectations of the Agriculture Council are very high. I think that we will all look very closely at the outcome of this. We hope it ends well. In addition to the European level, we can, of course, also assume our responsibilities here, at federal level. As Minister of Agriculture, you have already proposed federal measures and set out a timetable. In my view, you also announced in your action plan the creation of a monitoring cell for small producers, but you did not give any further explanation today. Perhaps it is possible to explain what is meant by this. The development of a label for products of Belgian origin would also be achieved. Can you clarify that and, above all, a timing? When will that be introduced? A task force will also be set up. Can you also make the timing of this more concrete? One point that is always very important for CD&V and on which we have already tabled legislative proposals is the carry-back and carry-forward. I understand that studies and analyses will be carried out on this in order to ascertain whether this is a good measure and whether there can be exceptions or specific criteria attached to it. I would have liked to know when we can expect the results of these studies. You will undoubtedly also have regular consultations with our regional agriculture ministers. That seems very interesting to me too. We need to join forces to achieve common positions. So much for my comments on the responsibility, which we can accept as politicians, as a government. The second pillar of the solution is the chain consultation. I can only confirm your words: it is a success that the organisations concerned have reached an agreement today. It is very good that, in very difficult circumstances, they managed to reach an agreement through consultation. The agreement is a success. It is also exceptional that both the dairy sector and the pig sector are involved. That's historic. I would therefore like to express our congratulations to the participants and, in particular, to the President, for having managed to reach an agreement under such difficult circumstances. I would have liked some more information on some aspects of that chain consultation. A more structural interprofessional stabilisation mechanism would be provided. This can be activated in periods of acute crisis. Is it already clear how that will work, or should it be further implemented? When would that become active? There's an agreement now. Above all, I wonder what will happen to that agreement. How will the concrete measures be developed? Does that happen in consultation with your cabinet? Will these measures also be proposed at the European Agriculture Council? Specifically, what is the next step, which must now be taken with the successful agreement? As I mentioned earlier, all agricultural organisations have developed a common set of requirements. What concrete action will be taken on this set of requirements? Will you take it with you to the European Agriculture Council? Will you take the defense of this? How do you see that? So much for my questions. The crisis is a big one, but we also see a few points of light. It is a boost that there is an agreement in the chain talks today. It is possible to reach an agreement in difficult circumstances by means of consultation. Perhaps we could take an example as politicians. I hope that you, together with your federal colleague, Kris Peeters, and your regional colleagues in agriculture, will find sufficient partners and support from the Member States, so that a number of measures that our pig and dairy sector can certainly use can still be adopted at European level. The expectations of the European Council are high. In any case, we will follow it up, and we wish you every success.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-08-31-54-commissie-ic230x.u10	Mr President, Mr Minister, I thank you for having this committee because the sector required a major urgency. I will begin by paying tribute to those who, in the field, are the first concerned and interested but also the first to feed people and have a very important job. They do so in a sincere, reasonable way, with heart and many qualities. Here I would like to say the importance of this quality and diversified sustainable agriculture. They are farmers who get up very early in the morning, who will sleep later than many of us and who are on farms 24 hours a day. So I wanted to break that spear on them first. Mr Minister, I thank you for this long presentation, which we hope to have the figures on the way out of this committee. Indeed, it was difficult to rate all the prices live. You gave us this presentation on the milk package and then on the pig pack. This also means that the sector is in crisis. In fact, it is not a particular sector or production but other production and I hope that this will calm down for the other products. As far as the dairy system is concerned, these are specific investments, in the sense that the dairy farm requires large investments, which are difficult to reverse, let us admit, which is a problem, and which have a very long amortisation period. This problem of price stability, as you mentioned in your presentation, is quite random and requires a return to it in order to have a policy in this direction. Throughout our discussions, we have always wanted to defend the maintenance of milk quotas. It was important to us, but it didn't happen anymore. It is also the result, at some point, of an ultra-liberal European policy that has fully trusted the market. If quota systems disappear, we are in favour of a mechanism for regulating volumes that would provide a structural response to the sector's demand. It's fundamental. Beyond the measures that have been taken in the short term and which you mentioned in the framework of the 6% of competences that are yours at the federal state level since 94% of the competences are regionalised, there is the need to work in full consultation with the Regions. It is the federal state that will bring the Belgian voice in the agricultural sector to the European Council on Monday, which is the voice of the regional policies put in place by a range of different measures depending on the regions. This is also regionalisation. Minister, you will be the spokesperson for the Regions and the federated entities at this European Council. A position will have to be defined. As you pointed out in your presentation, it is not quite fine-tuned at the moment, in addition to the fact that the Council's agenda is gradually reaching you, with some elements that will be added to the schedule. On behalf of the CDH, I particularly stress this need for a return to regulation, not to mention the fixing of the intervention price for the public storage of milk powder and butter, which requires an upward revision of this production. I had the opportunity to read the decisions you made both in the North and in the South of the country. You also mentioned this in your presentation, and I would particularly like to do so because it is also a request from the Regions: the need for market safety nets to be more realistic, more efficient, more proactive and responsive. I would like to say to Mrs Dierick that, for us, the definition of a well-coordinated Belgian position with the Regions is absolutely fundamental. Mr Minister, next Monday you will have to be the Minister of Persuasion at European level. You'll have to plead in front of your colleagues. You'll have to try to get partnerships. I would like you to be offensive and emphasize the need to organise this new regulation in the sector and the measures both in the short and in the long term. We cannot underestimate the expectations of the agricultural world with regard to this European Council; they are enormous. Every day, the press tells us about demonstrations, critical situations, special demands. We can't miss it. These measures must be taken in an offensive manner with a view to charting a future for the sector. Your task, Minister, will be to be convincing, offensive, but also spokeswoman for regional policies – because that is what our system wants. You will then have to come back with a regulator, a price observatory, an adaptation after evaluation. In this way, we can work together again. I insist on this dimension. The Regions are also applicants, as you mentioned, in terms of diversification, promotion, sale abroad in relation to the export agencies, whether in the north or south of the country. Minister, I take note of your presentation. You have to be the minister of influence and persuasion towards your counterparts in the European Council. We believe it is important for you to be able to address certain standards that have made agriculture rich and to remind us that small countries should not be harmed compared to larger ones and that they should be able to express themselves in the same way on the European field of action.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-08-31-54-commissie-ic230x.u11	Mr President, I too would like to begin by thanking you for organising the debate and, above all, for having a report drawn up on it. I would therefore like to thank the services for the extra effort they are making. I myself have been the chairman of the committee in another Parliament for 15 years and I know how important this type of report is. This is particularly important for the sector we are dealing with here, for which I am grateful. Minister, I have been in the opposition for 20 years and I will be in it for a while. I know when to be critical and naughty, but I also know when to be constructive. In this dossier, I am very constructive towards you, because I think you have accepted your responsibility. There is a crisis in the sector, you have seen it, you have heard the people, you have spoken to the people and you are giving us, Parliament, and the whole sector a number of concrete measures. I follow Mrs Dierick, who said that this is not just about the milk crisis, but about the agricultural crisis in general. You have proposed ten very concrete, far-reaching measures to help the agricultural sector in the north and south of the country, if that were possible, or at least to help them. Thanks for that. I will not discuss all the measures, because I like them all equally. I would like to highlight one by way of example, something that has already been discussed: food patriotism. We had already proposed this measure in the Flemish Parliament at the time and it is a matter of course in our neighbouring countries. I've been in Zeeland for the last two weeks. If one buys a chicken in the shop, it is of course mentioned in the original Dutch version; if one buys eggs, it says "Nederlandse This is a Zeeland product, this is a Dutch product. We should not be ashamed of this either, Minister. I've been buying and eating Walloon trout all my life: why shouldn't there be a Walloon rooster on it? I've been buying and eating Kempic butter all my life: why shouldn't Flemish Lion be on it? I sometimes drink a Peket: why shouldn't there be a Walloon rooster on it? I occasionally drink Elixir d...Anvers: why shouldn't the coat of arms of Antwerp be on it, together with the Flemish Lion? I eat Lierse vlaaikes: why shouldn't there be a Flemish Lion? I eat syrup de Liège: the coat of arms of the province of Liège has been on it for years. That is so settled in the Flemish cuisine, that we have an Antwerp name for it, "poop jelly'. We've been eating shit jelly all our lives. Why shouldn't we be proud of our own products? Yes, Minister, I support you in that. Make that quick! Do you have to do that yourself? Well, in part, yes. I hope you know your regional colleagues, but I have the impression that they are a little quieter and slower than you. I appreciate that you are taking an initiative in a dossier in which the regional authorities should have been the first to assume their responsibilities. As far as that's concerned, they're a little behind. You are pulling the cart; I would like to congratulate you on that and follow you in one piece. In the margins of your speech, you also mentioned another point of concern, namely the Russia story. Of course, I follow you and your government less. You continue to follow the logic of the Foreign Minister. Is Russia our geopolitical opponent? We should not have that debate here, but for me Russia is not. We must be friends with Russia again, as we used to be. This can only benefit our agriculture. I realize that what I'm saying may not be politically correct, but I'm gonna stand by it. I will defend that in the other committees as well. I am also listening to what farmers and farmers in the agricultural sector are saying. I hear they are not well served with the geopolitical plans of this government. You are right to say that there was another problem in the pig sector that preceded the boycott we introduced against Russia and the countermeasures we then had to take from Russia. Russia indeed had some sort of cordon sanitary.I know very well what this concept means... against our pig products. Do you not think that these problems can be solved if we re-establish good political and diplomatic ties with Russia? I'm just giving you a suggestion. I do not know whether you want to follow it, but I do know that the agricultural sector is suggesting this very strongly. You are going to Europe on 7 September and I wish you every success there. I know that the farmers are asking you to go very far. I am a little disappointed at the language of the opposition colleagues. I would have thought that we could be a strong front here, that we could support this minister and that we could give him a mandate that unisono would be supported by the entire Belgian parliament. As far as I am concerned, you have that support, and I hope that you will be able to make a strong contribution to the interests of our farmers in Europe.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-08-31-54-commissie-ic230x.u12	Minister, in my turn, I will allow myself to make a few comments. As a point of departure, I would like to say that among the local products in Wallonia are the beer Saint-Feuillien, dear to our colleague Mr Friart. Minister, again, thank you for your availability. Knowing you, I know that you are dedicated entirely to meeting, listening and seeking solutions. Finally, the question is quite simple but the answer is more complicated. How can we enable farmers and producers to live from their work? It is a heavy work, never finished, as several colleagues have pointed out. This is one of the few areas in which the producer does not fix the selling price of his product and does not know the selling price at the time he delivers it. Again, after the crisis of 2009, we find ourselves with a price paid to the producer below the cost price, regardless of the remuneration of his work. There are cyclical elements. You've developed them. You mentioned, in particular, the Russian embargo. That is the reality, and it is indisputable. More fundamental and structural issues have been raised by some colleagues, including Messrs. Gilkinet and Lamotte. The central issue, the core of the problem, is regulation, non-regulation or deregulation. Indeed, Europe has evolved with all the difficulties of the European Councils and decisions. At the end of 2008 Europe decided to end quotas, i.e. the way of deregulation and the end of milk quotas, while they represented a guarantee of price stability for producers. From my point of view, saying in the same sentence that we are going to be for a policy without subsidies and that we must at the same time guarantee producer prices, it seems to me quite impossible and contradictory. If the market liberalizes, prices fall because simply the supply is overabundant. It's a pretty basic principle of economy. With the end of the quotas, milk production has increased. The announcement of this gradual end had already led to an increase without the latter being effectively controlled. In short, overproduction is a structural problem. In addition to this structural situation, there are short-term problems. As you said during your interview this morning in L'Avenir, "the post-quotas without a beacon, without regulation, is quite destructive. We need to think about new mechanisms." That is what we are talking about. We will see what will come out of the European Council next Monday. The production model is also at the heart of the discussion. European agriculture is contrasted. There are three categories of countries. There are countries that have intensive production, industrial production. Some talk about hotels with 1,000 cows. This formula was used to refer to meat production plants. The Netherlands, Denmark, Sweden, Slovakia and the Czech Republic are strong supporters of liberalisation and the end of the quota system. It is therefore clear that unanimity within the European Union is impossible. It is important to see if a qualified majority can be obtained. On the other hand, there are also countries with medium-sized and often family-based agricultural enterprises, as I believe is the case with Belgium, Ireland, France, Italy and Portugal. I am not surprised, moreover, that France is at the initiative of the Council meeting on 7 September and of the search for solutions to try to save family farming, the role of which is very important in rural areas. I am also pleased that the Belgian Government is working with France in this direction. I don't know where Germany is. I wonder if she's not evolving. Five or six years ago, Germany was in this group of medium-sized farms. She tends to join the first group. Minister, could you tell us more about Germany's position on this issue? It's an element of reflection. The third group consists of the Eastern European countries with extremely low productivity farms: Poland, Romania. For these countries, we can also speak of subregions where the situations are still different. In your presentation, Minister, you talked about new safety nets, new quota standards, even on a temporary basis. I can see that we are turning to this issue of regulation without really going to the bottom of things, or explicitly naming it. You're talking about the European Price Observatory. In Belgium, we fought to have a Belgian Price Observatory. The 2009 milk crisis was central to the reflection of the time. Some were very much in favour of this Observatory. That's the base. First of all, we must have figures, if possible in real time, in any case the most suitable and the fastest possible, in order to be able to intervene and anticipate if we see trends which pose difficulties for the sector. You say that this European Price Observatory would become a powerful tool. I am obviously following you because this is in the direction of regulation, even if we do not say so explicitly. The European Parliament considered the subject and adopted a resolution on 7 July last on the future of the dairy sector and the implementation of the milk package at European level. This resolution contains a lot of interesting things. As always, it is the result of a great compromise. The basic text has been amended. We can find some interesting elements in the direction of the compromise that you will be looking for with your colleagues in the days that come until next Monday. According to the popular formula, one can put a plaster on a wooden leg but one must treat the root of the problem. It doesn't come out of your presentation, at least that's what I think it is. There is obviously a need to work on the contracting of farmers and dairies, to encourage producer groups, etc. All this is very good. I welcome what has been achieved by industry professionals, in particular by Mr Vanthemsche, who chaired this working group. However, there will have to be a return to regulation in order to stabilize prices. I would like to make a very brief reference to another element, which has not been noted. Among the threats ahead are the Transatlantic Treaty. As much as the abolition of milk quotas has been an important moment, which poses difficulties for the sector today, the Treaty poses a danger of complete liberalisation of the agricultural sector. Your political formation defends it without too much nuances by arguing that it will be good for investment and employment. I do not see how we can support this idea for the sector we are talking about here. Since our exchanges will be the subject of a full report, I wanted to mention a statement by the Secretary-General of the Walloon Federation of Agriculture, Mr Yvan Hayez: "We have developed a health security policy in the European area which is among the most developed and which is conceived from fork to fork. All the links in the agri-food sector are scanned. On the other hand, in the United States, without wanting to caricature, I would say that we produce, and then it is really at the last link that we are taking steps to ensure a certain level of health safety for consumers. I'll take the example of bleached chicken. We don't care how the chicken was produced, but once it is plucked, we bleach it and then put it on the market." Transatlantic discussions are not the subject of this debate, but they pose an additional threat. There are still significant tariffs on agricultural products. These include meat, fish, milk products, eggs, cereals, oilseeds, cocoa, tea, coffee, spices, fruit and vegetables, sugar and beverages. No longer having these excise duties is opening our markets to lower quality production and, of course, it is also exposing consumers. In a country like ours, which has based its reputation on the know-how of its breeders and its meat, how can we accept the import of hormone beef? And we realize that American companies are challenging the scientific validity of European health standards and are asking their governments to negotiate to repeal them through the transatlantic treaty. I would like to know your views on this issue. The European Council on Monday 7 September will be absolutely crucial for the sector – as several colleagues have stressed. I do not know what mechanism the negotiations can achieve. The ideal would probably be to have a kind of European unity, of systemic protection which is complemented by national arrangements, depending on the specificities of the different countries. We'll see. Anyway, I think it was useful to have this exchange. So you could hear each other's sensitivities on this issue. It seems to me that we are converging on the findings. Now, it remains to be seen what this will practically lead to. You say that the new European Commissioner is showing some openness; more than in the past. Good! This is a good thing; take advantage of it, in any case, to seek with it a solution that is reasonable and that actually defends Belgian producers, both Flemish and Walloon, because they are all faced with the same difficulties. On the other hand, we can talk about transformation, diversification. All this is good, all this is positive. But we still have to remember that rural entrepreneurs are first and foremost producers. Production and sales are other trades. It is not easy to base solutions solely on these elements. Finally, you mentioned the cash flow problems experienced by farmers. So much the better if short-term solutions would allow some money to enter the caisses more quickly. I imagine that we will have the opportunity to discuss it again in the second half of this year, because in our committee we are going to start the second round of the bills proposed by the groups. In this context, I still have a proposal for a law on collective procedures to prevent over-indebtedness and to try to safeguard farms. In this regard, it would be interesting to rehearse the sector, precisely in view of the current crisis. As at other times, they are currently experiencing necessarily financial difficulties. The aim is to prevent as much as possible and to smooth the difficulties over time in order to make it possible to pass a bad course rather than to achieve closures of businesses, as was the case in the past. I hope that we will be able to deal with this – Mr.Minister, as you said at the beginning of the legislature – without apprehension of who is proposing the text. As far as I am concerned, I would like to build with the sector a bill that will benefit the farms concerned, all parties, the majority and the opposition. Something new could be recast, with a mechanism that offers more protection than what the current law does. My conviction is that the law of business continuity is not the appropriate response to a series of situations facing this very specific sector of our economic activity. I therefore hope that we will be able to grasp this debate calmly. If this mechanism had already been in place, it could have been useful today. Let's prepare it and work for the future! That, Minister, is what I wanted to add to this debate. Since there is no longer a request for intervention, Minister, I give you the floor for your answers and replies to the various interventions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-08-31-54-commissie-ic230x.u13	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to share with you some elements of reaction, thanking you both for your comments, analyses and questions. I will answer cross-cuttingly as a number of issues have been addressed in a number of interventions. If you want to go back to certain particular points, I am at your disposal and at your disposal. I am quite open, available for consultation with the federated entities. Again this morning, before and after the meeting with Phil Hogan, we had the opportunity to talk with Joke Schauvliege and Réne Collin about the note of the Belgian proposal. I have drawn attention to some elements, themselves to others. I really intend to be at the disposal of the sector. It is generally also as a team that it is possible to change things. There is no ambiguity in my mind about this. I have not been distracted from the successive stages of state reform. I note that I have been challenged - Mr de Lamotte - with the results of the 7th meeting. The preparation of such meetings is important. If it was enough to read his note and win accession, that would have been a long time ago. A lot of work has been done for a long time before and through the obligation of means and results which you assign to me, I measure the mandate of preparation which is entrusted to me in full consultation with the colleagues. I would like to take stock of one week from the 7th Summit. I have noted the Commission's public communication which seemed to indicate a number of signs of openness with regard to the Commissioner's position. But the situation between countries is mixed. I am not going to undermine the chances of success of the momentum we want and I am not going to detail everyone's overall positions. But it is obvious that we have a very closed position on the part of Great Britain and Sweden with regard to mechanisms, if they were temporary, safety nets, regulation, beacons, etc. On the other hand, several countries in Eastern and Southern Europe are open to the search for new provisions and mechanisms. My ambition is that we can convince several Member States to table a text which is likely to have a large majority, if possible a qualified majority. That is the objective we are pursuing. But I do not hide from you that, when I was talking to my Polish counterpart in Riga about raising the intervention price, he replied that he had already asked for it on numerous occasions. As you have pointed out in your speeches, the extent of the work and its extreme difficulty must not be ignored or underestimated. On the basis of several papers circulating, the provisional Belgian position, the position of certain Eastern countries, the previous interventions by each of my counterparts - which have eventually been replaced - which I have carefully compiled, and on the basis of consultations carried out at various levels, in contact with the Luxembourg Presidency, I hope and hope that we will be able to have a sufficiently precise document. Indeed, a general document that will raise difficulties and define global guidelines is good; but we risk having something diluted. By far I prefer a document with an introduction describing price developments, measures already taken, etc. and organizes its thematic chapters by theme (milk, pork, beef). The aim is for these elements to be monitored and monitored. Everyone is legitimately focusing on the September 7 meeting. By calling for it to take place on that date, our objective was precisely to have this deadline so that it could put pressure on the shoulders of all European partners. But that is not the end point either, let us be clear. Even a firm position of the Council of Ministers obviously does not say anything about the precise measures to be taken. I therefore consider the meeting on 7 September to be a very important step, but it is certainly not the final point of the work to be carried out on this subject. However, in my view, this meeting must mark a turning point in the expression and vote of the countries gathered around the table. I have our speaking notes at the disposal of all the Members of the committee. By going through them, you will see the positions that we have successively defended. We came with a very detailed proposal for intervention on pig prices with buybacks, according to weights, kilograms, etc. This proposal was really the result of a broad review. But we were not followed. Yet, already in January, we were calling for an increase in intervention prices. When I speak of a turning point, it is a strong position, sufficiently precise and supported by a majority, if possible significant, of countries. That is the objective that will be – I want you to know – very difficult to achieve. Indeed, I would not like you to come and accuse me, in fifteen days, of having been able to obtain, for example, a simple majority. The qualified majority will be extremely complicated to obtain. But if we do not cling the cart of our ambitions to the stars, we are not likely to achieve significant objectives. At European level, Mr Gilkinet, the visions are quite different. We have heard quite different expressions about the market, tags for the latter, concerning – I repeat your terms – a form of "autarchy" and then turn to export. I ask you to be careful because, in many areas, our country is a country of export. I quoted the milk, the pork. I could mention other sectors. If, in parallel with other areas, I attach so much importance to exports, it is because I appreciate the importance it has for us. At this point, allow me to open a small parenthesis and link it to a question by Mrs Dierick. When I plead for a good knowledge of our products, for a good exploitation of our products in our national internal market, it is not in order to oppose other products. However, I believe, for example, that the operation food.be, the logo behind which we identify a number of our products, is interesting. Why not, under the leadership of regional ministers, competent authorities, federal ministers, etc., explore this hypothesis of identifying our national productions, so that people can freely exercise their choice to consume our national products, whether they are produced in the north, in the centre or in the south of the country, whatever? I would like to draw your attention to a phenomenon which I observe in some countries where, marginally at this stage, a form of national reflex is being exercised for the national products of the countries concerned to the detriment of imported products, including to the detriment of products imported from Belgium into those countries. So I'm very careful when I talk about all this. I can see how important exporting is to us. When I talk about identifying our products, it's really in an open way, just to allow people to choose them if that's their vision. In addition, I draw attention to some national reflexes. In some countries when we empty in some supermarkets in Europe – I don't target countries to offend anyone – non-national products are sometimes imported from Belgium. Therefore, caution with respect to this type of mechanism. On the other hand, and in a very understandable way, without being exclusive, I wanted us to be able to strengthen our part of the export job, namely bilateral contacts for everything that is sanitary, conventions, etc., so that these barriers can be removed for our benefit. On 1 January, the government authorized me to double, that is to say, to hire 16 people for the AFSCA export cell, in order to be able to fluidise the processing of these important cases with countries I have already mentioned, but also with Turkey. We were receiving a delegation from Turkey at the end of July, etc. In the same vein, I am responding to the question of labelling because it is linked. We note that labelling is not negative because, abroad, we would not consider our products to be quality products, to be valued, etc. However, I have identified it as one of the factors because, in some national reflexes that I see in some countries, the label of origin is the identification that this product is therefore not a product of the country where this kind of national withdrawal is carried out. We need to be careful about this. Many of you have addressed the tax aspect. This is indeed a mechanism which allows the recovery of losses or profits to be smoothed over time from a tax point of view. This file is not easy. In tax matters as in other matters, one must not be discriminatory. It is therefore not possible to decide tomorrow only on a measure for the agricultural sector or for another, without an extraordinarily robust justification in relation to this type of scheme, otherwise these regulatory provisions would be attacked very quickly to be discriminating in relation to other sectors. In the government agreement, the study of the "carry back carry forward" is a good one, but, as I indicated in my presentation, it was targeted at the link with the climatic conditions that made the incomes of the agricultural world vary. It is clear here that we are not in a climate problem. Therefore, the analysis would be extended to other elements that vary prices. Work needs to be done on the budgetary impact and legal robustness of the model in relation to the elements I have just mentioned. On the other hand, as regards elements of reflection, I must admit that I have some ideas about diversification, differentiated quality, etc., but this concerns regional competences. We can have a free conversation on the subject, but if I come to give you a presentation on what I think of the efforts to be made in terms of diversification, promotion or differentiated quality, you're going to tell me that I'm out of my scope of competence. On the other hand, and I answer two questions, I consider that all forms of valorisation of agricultural products and all forms of work in agriculture deserve attention, including the valorisation of local products, direct sale and on-farm processing. That is why I announced in the summer that in early September a "small-scale producers" unit would be set up for processing on the farm, direct sales, etc. As a result of the debate on Herve's cheese, it was important for me to be able to create, together with the enlarged Agrofront, a cell within the AFSCA, where we will be able to discuss these elements which have raised a great deal in recent months. Are the standards more stringent or operational for the producer or the direct processor? Are we more difficult than abroad? Are there other ways to ensure that there is no such level of presence of either element in dairy production? A scientific committee of the AFSCA, the expanded Agrofront and a representative of my firm will deal with it in full transparency. This work will be available to anyone wishing to do so. In your remarks, Mrs Cassart-Mailleux, you mentioned the economic and employment importance of the sector. This reflection is entirely relevant. We often forget what's going on right now. I would like to recall that we moved from 62,000 farms to 37,000 in 2014, which means a reduction of 25,000 farms in about 15 years. It's huge! Let us translate this in terms of jobs. The figures are not very far from those of the farms. Can one imagine that another sector of economic activity should have faced such a haemorrhage, without everyone mobilizing to avoid losing entire parts of jobs in the same sector? Unfortunately, that is what I am observing in the agricultural sector, which is why all your reactions and analyses are important. Equally important – as has been mentioned in several interventions – are the financial difficulties faced by farms. During the consultations that Kris Peeters and I had at the highest level with the banking world, it became apparent that we are, for part of the farms, in what is just before the banking difficulties. This "just before" is indeed a decapitalisation, a reduction in capital. First, we invest less, we sell a little more; in doing so, we decapitalize the farm. The payment deadlines for suppliers are shot: food merchants, whom I also met, veterinarians, etc. The elasticity of payments is pulled and a number of bank deadlines will come. All these reasons make the crisis before us an extraordinary difficulty. I have met with a number of experts, including milk manufacturers. And I must be frank with you and tell you that the outlook for milk price developments by the end of the year or the beginning of 2016 is not good, despite what the concertation of the chains has produced and other measures expected, both at Belgian and European level. Tendantly, the outlook is not good. Unfortunately, we are going to announce further reductions by the end of the year in the price paid to producers. And it's a real drama. I'm trying to project myself in time. In view of the acute nature of today's crisis, I wonder what our answer will be if, unfortunately, it persists. A few weeks ago, some dairy people told me they were still trying to sell at the best price on the powder market. A few days ago, the same people told me they were just trying to sell. As soon as there is a taker, we sell, so much the market seems morose and I'm very concerned. The task force set up works with banks, Kris Peeters, the expanded Agrofront, my firm and the SPF Economy. There is a step-by-step follow-up of this situation to see concretely how the situation on farms is changing, and how banks respond. What additional measures can be taken in compliance with the provisions that apply today to the banking sector? We are under the Russian geopolitical embargo. The debate follows the invading Crimea and the situation in Ukraine. On the other hand, we are talking about the embargo side, which is not geopolitical, but the one linked to the African plague that preceded the Russian embargo. What is meant by a long-term stabilisation mechanism under the Food Chain Agreement? After discussions with Comeos, Agrofont and Kris Peeters, the agreement consists of two pillars. One is immediate and the other is long-term. Both are inextricably linked. If there was no firm commitment on both, there was no agreement at all. But this will not happen in a few days in August. To define a price policy that will be stable and sufficiently robust in the long term, perhaps with a solidarity fund mechanism, it will obviously take a few weeks to think about it. That's why in communicating the channel's concertation, you don't have the details. The firm commitment concerns the immediate but also a long-term pillar. I'm a witness to it and I labeled it. It takes time to imagine something that holds the road. According to my information, we wish to advocate another element at European level. The equivalent of the super levy would be around EUR 860 million, or around EUR 22 million for Belgium. One request we make is that this super levy can return to the dairy sector in a form to be determined. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the amounts are very different from one country to another. I repeat that the amounts are very different from one country to another. Some countries have almost nothing, others are almost 300 million euros. The idea is indeed to come back with this budget by saying that it should be used to support elements such as innovation, pilot experiments, valorisation and also the return to the agricultural world. In addition, I have in mind our conversation a few months ago about the bill on over-indebtedness. I said that I had an analytical benevolence in relation to that because it seemed to me quite relevant. As you know, I'm trying to be very careful in words. I deliberately used the words "temporary mechanism...", etc. Why? If I come here to say, "Friends, we're going to ask for the quotas to be reinstated." We'll see if there's a majority in Belgium. Let us assume, however, that there is a majority in Belgium – I do not say that there is one – and the likelihood that these will be adopted at European level is for the time being null. On the other hand, by saying "temporary mechanisms linked to the activation of intervention possibly linked to the state of the market", this remains extraordinarily difficult, but at least there is an opening window with a number of countries. I do not repeat the debate on quotas, nor the debate on TTIP. Mr President, I would like to be a little more nuanced in relation to your expression because you have indicated that the TTIP is being defended by everyone. I have been questioned several times, particularly in this committee, and I have insisted on what are the key features for us in relation to TTIP. In particular, they are the level playing field, i.e. the fact that one is put in the same situations, in particular from the health point of view, from the point of view of environmental standards and other provisions. So, in relation to TTIP, we are taking an extremely vigilant attitude in agricultural matters. In this regard, I refer to the answers to the questions that have been asked and which I have tried to answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-08-31-54-commissie-ic230x.u14	Mr Minister, allow me to interrupt for a moment to tell you that I was not referring to your remarks, but rather to some of the views of Members of the House of Commons on questions put to your colleague, Mr Kris Peeters. You are therefore in no way concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-08-31-54-commissie-ic230x.u15	I would like to add a few more words about the French market. I will not go into detail, but structurally, the French market is different from ours, given the volume of processing in France and the mechanics of the French internal market. But know that I am diligently announcing in each of the countries, particularly in France, but also in other states. Indeed, if devices are robust enough to be reasonably transposed in our country, i.e. they are really applicable and cannot be legally challenged, in particular at European level, we must be able to draw on them and examine them. Mr President, I hope I have not oversumed the facts.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-08-31-54-commissie-ic230x.u16	I think I can say that we had an exchange of quality, which was, moreover, the objective of this meeting.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-08-31-54-commissie-ic230x.u17	Mr President, I did not say that I was optimistic. I know enough about agriculture, especially in practice, to know the impact of all these crises. We've had crises, but then agriculture was another story. It was a story of diversity, of multiple branches within a company, allowing one branch to compensate the other. However, we have evolved into a completely different agriculture. 25 000 companies have disappeared, many of them. That wasn't just the crisis. In a number of companies there was no successor and a lot of companies were simply no longer viable in terms of size. They've been incorporated into larger companies. Those larger companies have invested, and at the moment there are very many that do not see the soil anymore. I have said that I am hopeful and I welcome a number of initiatives. Our group has given us a number of possibilities and ideas. I know very well that next week's big summit will not be an easy task. It is indeed a starting point. I know very well what the social impact is right now. I am following Mrs Cassart and everyone who says that this is a global agricultural crisis. Mr Minister, since I have been here, I have almost bombed you with questions about the future of agriculture in all possible areas. I see a huge drop in cereal prices. We also know that the abolition of sugar beet quotas is still on the way, so that the prospects for the price of sugar also fall sharply. So I'm just saying that we haven't gotten to the end of this story yet. The social and other consequences are still uncertain. However, my cup is half full, not half empty. I really welcome the initiatives and also the consultation between all possible actors in this sector. I think we should let everyone do their job. It is not a revolution, but there is an evolution in the chain talks, which is nevertheless a result. The agreement they have reached is now in the press. I regret that it is being blocked that the consumer will pay with it. In fact, it would be better to block: "The consumer will finally pay the right price." This is a very important aspect, including consumer awareness. In the end, we must make people aware that cheap is not always the best, that this is not the norm. Across the Regions there is a lot of work. Those powers are mixed up. It is very difficult to implement a federal agricultural policy, which should be a little easier at regional level. I continue to emphasise the importance of this consultation. Nor should you lose sight of food security. Then there's the export. If we are going to export less, then we must think very carefully about what that means for our country in terms of employment and production. That's very important. Minister, we continue to explicitly ask to speak about product control, if necessary. That is very important, along with a number of other elements. However, I would like to point out that we must be wary of measures which have a boomerang effect, and I am a little afraid of that. In reality, farmers are already stacking invoices on invoices. If we do get a postponement of social contributions, it will be a relief at that time, but it will come back as a boomerang. I know it's a scale, but I'm really scared of it. I know that vets and animal feed manufacturers are already waiting for their money because they want to pay off their loan. If all these deferred invoices are added to that, then at the moment when things may get a little better, we will go back to the depths. Those farmers are already eating their savings, it is really very precarious. Minister, there is a very difficult task for you, but the mentality of the agricultural associations is changing, the different parties are growing towards each other, and that is positive. We will not be able to solve the problem on 7 September, but at least let it be a start. We will let you do your job and count on you, together with your fellow Members. We can only hope that you will find each other in there somewhere. The only common goal is that a viable agriculture, the family farmer, must continue to exist. I hope that we can all achieve this together.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-08-31-54-commissie-ic230x.u18	Minister, thank you for your explanation. But at this stage, we consider that your answers do not match the seriousness of the crisis. I am talking not only about the difficulty of the file, which is very real because of the different levels of power involved, but also about the problematic ideological orientations that you and others are considering. You did not address five points in your answer, which was intended to be complete. I am thinking first of all of the question of the minimum price. What are the possibilities under national law to prevent lost sales? This principle exists in other sectors, why should it not apply to it? Secondly, I spoke of a form of autarchy that I envisaged at European level. Agricultural production is destined for local markets. I do not only consider the borders of Wallonia or Belgium; I was talking about a European framework, which is a complementary market which must be able to operate in solidarity with as common a rules as possible as regards the quantities produced – and that is the third point. I understand your caution and your use of euphemisms such as this "temporary quota mechanism" where we want to regulate production. When we come up with this idea, we are told that quotas have not proved to be effective. Moreover, if we asked for it today in Belgium, no agreement would be reached. It is not because the system was misused and had evolved badly that it must be called into question. The aim is to avoid overproduction in order to allow everyone to pay a correct price in comparison to their costs and to ensure also a quality of production which is threatened by this search for volume at any price. At European level, it is true that a majority is needed to reverse this decision that my group has never voted for, unlike other parties that are represented here... With regard to the agreement with the distribution sector, I do not know whether you have used the term here, but you have communicated with reference to a "historical" agreement. As I said, it's better that he exists. But let us see that it is particularly limited in time. You said that the "long term" part was linked to the "short term" part, which we do not yet know. A moral commitment to this has been made. At this point, I keep my words "emplater on a wooden leg". For all those I know and those I don't know who are active in the dairy sector, it's better three cents more than three cents less at the point where we are today. But don't consider that we've reached the end of the crisis with this. Moreover, this is the second time that there has been such an agreement, but it has not prevented the crisis from coming back because, on the other hand, we have not had this logic of regulation that we are calling for. Fifthly, and again to the President and colleagues, I think it is important that we hear representatives of the sector in this committee on this essential and exciting subject. I'm sure it won't be a problem, it may be after next Monday's summit, so they can comment on these agreements like you. I don't think we'll be at the end of the road this Monday. This summit has the merit of being there. Bravo for forcing him! But we will judge the decisions that will be taken. I hope that you will be able to bring together enough countries on a fairly ambitious response to the issues and properly oriented.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-08-31-54-commissie-ic230x.u19	A lot has already been said. I would like to thank the minister for being here today, for being able to explain to us and for fighting for this council to take place on Monday. As you said, minister, there will be some chances of having a majority. In any case, we have started the work, we have a vision and we want to succeed, but we will see what will happen on Monday. Continue, as you do, to take this problem at arm-to-body with short-term solutions but with medium- and long-term vision. I think that is obviously the primary objective. There is also a need to continue consultations with the Flemish and Walloon regions. By definition, as I said before, 95% of agricultural materials are regionalised. We must therefore have a strong consultation for the sector. I put this political game aside because at some point the sector is worth it. It's an economic sector. We can't leave him in this situation. You are well aware of this and I know that you are fighting in this area. As soon as you took office, you took different positions and worked already before the Libramont Fair. I did not say that the solution was simple to find, but I naturally urge you to work together with the Regions. In relation to the hearings, I would like to make a little reflection. I know that there is a special committee this Thursday in the Walloon Parliament where the minister will be heard. I think that before you position yourself, you first have to have contact with the Walloon counterparts about what you said. Let us wait until we see how the meeting with the European Commission will take place next Monday. Secondly, we will ask ourselves whether there is a need to audition.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-08-31-54-commissie-ic230x.u20	Mr President, I listened carefully to the Minister's replies and in particular to his willingness to try to obtain a majority mark and to find partnerships among the members of the Council. I really draw his attention to the importance of this objective in order to be able to shift the decision in the direction we all want. This has been expressed here and in regional entities. As has been pointed out on several occasions, power or modes of action are in the hands of federated entities. Minister, there is a strong expectation of your announcement. It wouldn't be a question of coming back mad. The Walloon Region has acted and has taken a number of decisions. You had the necessary consultations with each other. We must bring the Belgian word to the European Council. The concept of quality agriculture, which is diversified, exists in the short circuits. And that's good. We must say that farmers' work is a real job. It has an economic dimension. It is a fair remuneration that is necessary for a profession that expresses itself. Things must be done with dignity. Farmers need this fair remuneration to live like other professions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-08-31-54-commissie-ic230x.u21	Minister, you have an important meeting on 7 September. We support you in that. I understand that there is no doubt that you will receive broad support for this. You'll have to strengthen that, won't you? You will make a proposal there which, if I understand correctly, is une des réponses à la crise agricole, one of the possible answers to the agricultural crisis. It's a good thing you're being modest. I understand, if my French is good enough, that despite the different business culture in France, the French Government is not unneged and may support you. I would have liked to know whether this is the case at Benelux level. I assume Luxembourg will be happy to join you. The Netherlands is facing the same crisis. I do not know how the Dutch Government is thinking and wants to react at the moment. Can you give us any information on this, or do you think that is inappropriate at the moment?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-08-31-54-commissie-ic230x.u22	Mr Minister, by 7 September, all the political groups want the most favourable solution for our producers to be found. Beyond certain criticisms or elements of partial dissatisfaction, consider that you have the support of Parliament. Everyone is doing well, and I said in my introductory statement, the complexity of the case and the difficulties in obtaining a simple or qualified majority agreement in view of the diversity of the twenty-eight countries. To my knowledge, the Netherlands would defend intensive production rather than medium-sized family farms. I'll let you answer that question. Then you quoted the numbers of farm losses in fifteen years, saying you were a disaster. I am as much so as you are, since, in the introductory work of my bill, I have tried to establish a chronology in the short and long term, Region by Region. I have not, moreover, noticed any difference between Wallonia and Flanders. During these years, cyclical crises of various kinds have emerged. For farmers in natural persons, family farms that were not in business, the collective debt settlement procedure was a death sentence. Anyone who entered the machine was crushed and disappeared. Now, the law of continuity has also recently been accessible to natural persons, but this remains insufficient. [[I have heard your intention of openness in this regard, which you have already expressed before.]] As regards the procedures and the continuation of our work, from a regulatory point of view, we are certainly not in a position to decide whether or not to hold hearings. I still want to ask the minister if he agrees to spend a little of his time in Parliament to follow up on our debate. You rightly said that 7 September was an important date and perhaps a turning point, but that it was certainly not the end of the story. This case deserves not a cheese, but time and energy on our part. I hope that we will be able to devote another half-day, if not more, to this matter. A debriefing a week or ten days after the 7th would seem useful. Questions and questions can be concentrated and a debate can be organized. I also support the idea of hearing the sector perhaps at the same time. I would like to point out that Mr Peeters requested that the committee meet on 15 September to consider a bill related to the economy. This meeting is scheduled for the morning. In doing so, we could take this opportunity to debrief in the afternoon and try to reach a consensus on the hearings. For my part, I believe that Parliament is a place that must be listened to by the representatives of the various sectors, in this case those of the agricultural world. It is not a matter of spending two days in this sector, as was the case for energy. But it seems to me that it would be useful to hear a few representatives from this sector. Indeed, this debate deserves to be followed by Parliament. In any case, this would be an opportunity to send a good message. I therefore propose that you organize a debate rather than go through many questions. Today, four issues were integrated into the debate; it is a way of working. But I repeat that it would be appropriate, in my view, to hear the sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-08-31-54-commissie-ic230x.u23	Mr President, we must not be closed to the proposals made to us. An important meeting will be held on 7 September. Perhaps you could consider contacting the minister to let us know how the situation has evolved. Your mention of the date of 15 September is also interesting as it will allow us to organize our agendas. Everyone knows that in September nothing is frozen, unlike in October or November. I suggest that you send an e-mail to colleagues so that everyone is already informed of the meeting on 15 September.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-08-31-54-commissie-ic230x.u24	This will be done according to the usual procedure. That said, I put forward the date of 15 September, but it could be the 14th or the 16th or the following week. However, as our presence is required on the 15th, we could take advantage of it to resume and continue the debate on the sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-08-31-54-commissie-ic230x.u25	Mr President, I would like to thank you and the speakers for their replies and further analysis. I want you to know that I am quite prepared to attend the hearings of the representatives of the organizations you would like to hear and to give you a follow-up to the meeting on 7 September. We could also discuss other events that might occur by then. However, I should like to inform you that on 15 September an informal meeting of agriculture ministers is planned in Luxembourg and that the Luxembourg Presidency has asked me to host one of the round tables. I ask you to take this into account.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-08-31-54-commissie-ic230x.u26	The question is whether we can have a consensus of the members present, but also by consulting the others, because we are no longer very numerous at this time. It would be interesting to have an agreement in principle of saying "let's follow up, a follow-up to this exchange". If an informal Council is also held on the 15th, minister, perhaps you will have more information to share with us. We can schedule some things the week after the 15th or the following week. We must also take the time to see if we agree on the principle of hearing the sector. Let's set a time to send proposals.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-08-31-54-commissie-ic230x.u27	Mr President, a follow-up on the European Council is a good idea. As part of the organization of work, since the proposal is now coming, it is good that we can think about it and position ourselves. I also hear that the minister has agenda concerns.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-08-31-54-commissie-ic230x.u28	He also has availabilities, except on the 15th. I suggest that he go to the informal meeting on agriculture and that around the 17th...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-08-31-54-commissie-ic230x.u29	Mr President, perhaps we should wait for the outcome of the European summit. The Minister and the administration should perhaps also have the opportunity to inform us sufficiently. In my view, we must also wait and see what the possible outcome of the consultation on 15 September is. I would prefer to have the next meeting with the Minister, if that is not a problem for my fellow Members, on 29 September.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-08-31-54-commissie-ic230x.u30	If we agree on the principle, we could agree on the most appropriate time for the minister. Groups should be asked to submit their proposals to the secretariat. We can formally place the order of business on the 15th with the group proposals.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-08-31-54-commissie-ic230x.u31	That's what would be best, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-08-31-54-commissie-ic230x.u32	Mr President, I think all colleagues agree on the seriousness of the crisis. Perhaps we do not fully agree on the solutions. I have made the request that the actors in the sector, beyond the minister, after the European Summit, be able to be heard. In the functioning of the Committee on the Economy, no doubt, we may not decide today. I take note of that. Each president reacts according to his habits and it is quite respectable. But you don't have to hang out. Report to the 15th a decision on the hearings and ask the minister to come on the 29th. But then, we need to hear from the players in the sector before 29. This must be done as quickly as possible. You have to beat the iron while it's hot. The crisis is now. Maybe next Monday, we'll see the bad mood in the area. If our parliament brings the members together a month later, it does not contribute to its credibility or to contributing to solutions. The faster the better.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-08-31-54-commissie-ic230x.u33	I am available to organize the meeting of this committee. I propose to choose with the minister the most appropriate time if we reach an electronic consensus with the groups not represented here. Formally, we're waiting for 15. 29 is a little far away, we must hope to do it before 29. Formally, we are not in numbers to make a decision. There seems to be a consensus to come together to hear the sector. Let's try to find the best possible date: 16, 17, 21? This does not prevent the groups from communicating to the secretariat which they wish to invite. There should be a consensus in that regard. We will then be able to inform the members, otherwise we will go through the order of business. Minister, thank you. Good work and good luck for September 7th! Come back to us with great news for the sector! Not for us, but for the sector.
