ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic277x.u1	Mr Minister, I am asking this question with some hesitation and sense of relativity, because other matters may require your attention at the moment. I've submitted the question at a rather innocent moment to my mind. It's only after that a leak was found in East Flanders. I hope the question wasn't the cause of the leak, but I don't think so. In 2005, during the construction of an industrial site between Overijse and Waver, workers discovered a vast underground oil lake at a depth of 42 meters with a length of 30 meters over an area of 2 hectares. This was the result of a leak in the Central European Pipeline System, the CEPS, from which kerosene could escape for a very long time. Following a written question from Mr Francken to then Defence Minister Pieter De Crem, the Minister replied that Belgium should pre-finance the restoration of the subsurface, after which, on the basis of the invoices, costs estimated at EUR 10.2 million could be recovered through the NATO Infrastructure Committee. In a 2005 NATO briefing, six third party incidents, a kerosene incident, attempted theft and an unknown number of attacks and damage occurred between 1975 and 2003. Over the period after 2003, I have not found any data. As I mentioned in my introduction, last month another leak came to light from Nazareth and De Pinte, again leaking an unknown amount of kerosene into the stream on the Deurlestraat, causing significant environmental damage to the surrounding farms. I do not know how much kerosene has been leaked into the ground, but as far as the cause of the leak is concerned, the Belgian Pipeline Organisation thinks it might be a result of a kerosene theft. There was also quite a lot of news in the media afterwards. Mr Minister, what is the state of play regarding the soil restoration in Waver, the old file? Is the initial estimate true in terms of costs and time frame? Has the application already been approved by the NATO Infrastructure Committee? Do you already have more information about the leak at Nazareth and De Pinte, about the amount of kerosene, the exact cause, the cost of cleaning, the timing and the financing? Have any other leaks been detected since the discovery of the leak in Waver? Has anyone actively been looking for this? If so, has that investigation been completed? If it is still running, how many percent of the pipeline system in Belgium has already been investigated? The automatic detection system did not automatically detect the leak in Nazareth and De Pinte, because the system mainly measures the pressure difference in the pipeline and the leak probably was not large enough to affect that pressure. What is the possibility that this will leave other leaks undetectable? Can we refine the system? Finally, is it possible to get more recent figures, i.e. after 2003, on the number of incidents?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic277x.u2	Mr Buysrogge, the soil restoration works in Waver were launched in April 2013. The clean-up plant was put fully into service in February 2014. We are now a year and a half away and the results of the reorganisation are positive. The contaminated area has been effectively reduced. The initial estimate of the costs and work plan, with the end of the clean-up in 2020, after six years, remains unchanged. The International Staff of the NATO Infrastructure Committee took note of the pre-financial statement of the Belgian State in April 2010. The application for reimbursement can only be made after the end of the reorganisation. In 2007 a small leak was discovered in Dendermonde. That was restored immediately. The contaminated land was dug out and replaced. There was no need for further soil restoration. The discovery of the leak in Waver did not give rise to a specific search program. The integrated CEPS has been and will be continuously monitored and maintained in accordance with the legal provisions and in accordance with NATO and civilian rules in order to safeguard its integrity with the best available techniques. This includes technical protection measures against corrosion, a constant monitoring with leak detection, which is more performant than in 2005, a specific control every 10 years and punctual measures in case of a risk of interference by third parties. A total of 12 incidents occurred in the period 2004 to date. It's two incidents due to technical failure and nine caused by a third. Only three of these 12 incidents have had an impact on the soil, namely in Dendermonde, Waver and Saint-Symphorien. Recently, a leak was also detected in De Pinte, which has an impact on the soil. The investigation of the cause and the consequences is still ongoing. Belgium has already carried out reforms as a host country, but unlike the reorganisation in Waver, they were carried out using funds provided by the CEPS programme within the NATO Support and Procurement Organisation. The soil restoration in Saint-Symphorien was carried out and financed by SPAQuE, a company of the Walloon Region. The responsibility and the cost of cleaning up Saint-Symphorien is still under dispute. As a general remark, I would like to say that the operation of the pipeline system is always a limited possibility of incidents, but from an environmental point of view it remains the most safe mode.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic277x.u3	Thank you, Minister, for the information on other cases in the recent past. I agree with your final remark that the pipeline system has certainly proved its worth and will hopefully continue to do so in the future. I understand from the announcement of the leak in De Pinte that civil aviation is also using that pipeline. It is important to underline this here. I believe that it is a good thing that we continue to invest in this performance system. It can prove its worth in the future. A good maintenance and monitoring system is important. I would therefore like to focus on a 3V approach. Safety, waste and pollution must be tackled.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic277x.u4	Madam President, I tabled this question in September, but I think it is still relevant. Mr Minister, on 2 September last you said that Belgium had given its consent to the United States for a possible re-use of the Zutendaal military base in Limburg in order to store and preposition conventional military equipment. As a reminder, during the Cold War, this base (originally a reserve airfield) was part of an important network of US military depots in Europe, retreating from the Iron Curtain. With the end of the cold war, the Americans obviously reduced the size of their facilities, finally leaving Zutendaal in 1999. The installations were then taken over by the Belgian army, which made it mainly a ammunition depot for the land component. Minister, can you indicate the logistical, strategic and possibly political reasons for this American return to Zutendaal, 16 years after leaving? What kind of equipment does the United States intend to preposition on site? What are the objectives, the subsequent destinations of this prepositioning? Is it a one-time reuse, for a specified period, or is it a long-term relocation of the US Army to Zutendaal? On September 2, you said that Defence was now waiting for a final decision from the Americans. What about today? What is the timetable for the return of American forces to the scene? Finally, what does this mean for the Belgian forces who had been present in Zutendaal since 1999? Should they be relocated?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic277x.u5	Mr Dallemagne, at the end of July 2015, the U.S. military asked to investigate the possibility of reactivating former U.S. sites. According to my information, that question was asked not only to Belgium, but also to the Netherlands and Germany at the same time. On the basis of the offers made by the consulted nations, the United States would select a number of stockage sites in Europe in the autumn. I can tell you that the decision would normally have been taken in September, but the United States asked to postpone it until the end of the year. The placement of equipment would then probably start from the first trimester of 2016. The American armed forces want to preposition heavy vehicles and conventional ammunition. On 28 August 2015, the government decided in principle to make part of the quarter of Wevelsmoer in Zutendaal available to the U.S. Army, if necessary. The prepositioning of the equipment is part of the reduction of US effectives in Europe and is not related to a specific conflict or threat. With the prepositioning of equipment, the United States can compensate for a decline in effectives in Europe. If the equipment is already on site, it is easier to return units. For the maintenance of the equipment, the Americans would only work with local workers, estimated to be between 200 and 250 people. Currently there are 140 military personnel active in Zutendaal. This quarter of an hour is the site of the Rolling Material and Armament Competence Centre, which is responsible for the reception of newly purchased vehicles and the sale of withdrawn vehicles, for the maintenance and storage of administrative containers and the like. Some of the services in Zutendaal are relocalized. Certain Defence activities will be maintained on site, such as the conventional ammunition dismantling facility. The details of the placement will, of course, only be worked out if the United States of America choose Zutendaal as its site. The basic agreements between the United States and Belgium for the storage of military equipment date back to the 1970s. These were suspended around the turn of the century, but can be reactivated without any problems. The organisation of a co-use of the site, as would be the case in Zutendaal, was also regulated in a general technical agreement from that period. I now turn to the financial aspects. Aang Since Belgium did not pay anything for the infrastructure in Zutendaal at the time, we will also not charge rents for the use of pilots and ammunition bunkers. Should the United States still need additional infrastructure, it would be on their own account. This site would be used by the United States for a period of at least ten years. I do not know whether other European countries have undertaken to provide storage capacity for conventional military equipment.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic277x.u6	Minister, thank you for your detailed answer. I understand that we are not talking about additional weapons in Europe, but about the relocation of ammunition and heavy vehicles. In other words, it is not a question of increasing America's overall military capabilities in Europe. Where will these weapons come from? Will they come from other European countries or directly from the United States?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic277x.u7	Hence, I do not know exactly, but the United States wants to remove soldiers stationed in Europe and want to have locations to store their equipment in order to be able to dispose of it in the event of a problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic277x.u8	You stated that this equipment would be maintained by 200 to 250 local staff. What do we mean by that? Are they Belgians?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic277x.u9	The civils.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic277x.u10	So Belgian civilians. In doing so, 200 to 250 jobs should be created, which is good news. Minister, I would like to conclude by saying that I intend that the decision will be taken in December or, in any case, at the end of the year.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic277x.u11	Mr Pirlot has indicated that he is still on his way and will not be able to get here. His question No. 6204 is therefore repealed. My question No. I will also have 7017 deleted, as it is obsolete and has already been answered in the press and at the previous committee meeting. I give the floor to Mr Yüksel.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic277x.u12	Madam President, my question has now been overtaken by current events. Leopold I has begun another new mission, Minister. I asked my question on 15 September, more than two months ago. There's nothing you can do about it. Perhaps we should try to play the ball a little shorter, Madam President, but I know that you do not have much of a grasp on that either. However, I do have a general political question, Minister. How do you evaluate the overall participation in the operation?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic277x.u13	Mr President, I would like to join Mr Yüksel in saying that my question is not in detail, since the frigate Leopold I has already left on another mission between the time the question was submitted and today. However, I would like a specific answer to the following questions. What was the attitude of the Libyan authorities towards Leopold I's action in the area? There was also a second phase. How has it been with regard to access to Libyan waters? Finally, perhaps that is more of a question for the committee behind closed doors. I would like to know how many Belgian men participated in the mission.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic277x.u14	Mr Minister, I have the impression that this question may still be relevant since I saw in your general policy note that you wanted Belgium to continue to be involved in this mission. It is true that this note could have been written before the recent events. I would have liked a clarification on Belgium's continued participation in this mission. As far as the balance sheet is concerned, what has it been able to do so far? Legal questions were also raised with regard to the investigative power and the judiciary when traffickers were arrested on board the Leopold I. It seems that there was a legal vacuum there. Since the Belgian military had no investigative power or judicial power, they had to rely on Italian police officers, who themselves were reluctant to intervene. For the future, if we were to continue to participate in this mission, what about those questions? In general, I think it is a mission that remains important. I would like to know whether Belgium intends to try with its means to continue to contribute to this operation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic277x.u15	Thank you for your questions and their adaptation. Since the prepared answers contain many elements of answer to what you are asking, I am going to keep to the preparation, which may provide some unnecessary material here and there. It is important to know that in the context of the legitimacy of the fight against human trafficking, both at sea and in Libya, the European Union is working on two fronts. You know that, on the one hand, the High Representative, Mrs Mogherini, has been trying for a long time, through the European External Action Service, to ensure that the two major groups around Tripoli and Tobroek, in the Libyan civil conflict, each claiming to be a legal government, would come to a truce and a united government. This would allow for an official Libyan call for assistance, which would enable action to be taken at the request of the local authorities against the networks of human smugglers in Libya and in Libyan territorial waters. On 9 October 2015, the UN Envoy for Libya reported a breakthrough on the creation of such a government of national unity. However, the latest information indicates that this positive message was earlier premature and seems to be failing again. In this sense, it is difficult to know which Libyan authority would give its view on what happened. Moreover, we have not acted in territorial waters, but outside them. That's important to know, isn't it? The current international and legal basis for the EU NAVFOR Med operation is based on the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS), the Protocol against the Smuggling of Migrants by Land, Air and Sea (Palermo Protocol) and, on the other hand, the Decision of the European Council of 18 May 2015 on the basis of which the operation was established and developed on the basis of Articles 42 and 43 of the Treaty of the European Union. The European Operation EU NAVFOR Med of Sophia, as it is called today, still has a role to play, as others are still in the process of contributing to the EU's efforts to disrupt the economic model of smugglers by confiscating and possibly destroying vessels used by smugglers. It is important to know that the Belgian rules of engagement allow the commander of the frigate to distract these vessels. We then, of course, agree to board and investigate international waters. In this context, the frigate Léopold I left on 5 October 2015 from Zeebruges with about 160 people on board, and joined Operation Sophia on 9 October. This participation lasted almost six weeks and ended on November 18, 2015. Following the European opinion on the famous Phase 2 of the EU NAVFOR MED operation, the EU developed deployment rules related to this phase. Persons taken on board the Belgian frigate after intercepting a vessel will be landed in a safe harbour or port or safety designated by the European organisation Frontex. Applications for asylum on board a Belgian frigate shall not be considered as applications for asylum on Belgian territory. The persons on board are subject to the jurisdiction of Belgium. Consequently, the principle of non-refoulement or the prohibition of expulsion will apply. This means that the persons concerned must not be returned to a state where there is a danger to their lives. The Belgian Navy has no jurisdiction to take legal action. However, it can provide observations and findings to the coastal state, which will decide on the further actions to be taken. The mandate is identical for all ships, but there are small differences in national law, which slightly different the exact working procedures and legal practices. A number of operations were carried out until 18 November. The coastal state will decide on the further actions to be taken in a safe harbour. The possible future participation of a Belgian ship in the EU NAVFOR MED operation will be the subject of a study within the framework of the plan "Operational Commitment of Belgian Troops in 2016", which will be submitted shortly for approval by the Council of Ministers. I can already confirm that I am for a contribution next year. I would like to point out that the frigate has a different bet than the Godetia. In this sense, we have been involved several times in tracking a number of ships, using the sensors on board the frigate, to detect their roads, after which other defences boarded and took the people on board. We did one boarding. You should know that we have also sent people from ACOS IS along with a boarding team. On the one hand, by observation and, on the other hand, by ordinary interviews, they are not legally allowed to conduct interrogations or interrogations, and on the other hand, they have been able to detect or probably detect the four smugglers responsible for the ship in question, including one fifteen-year-old. These four have been assigned to the Italian police and at that time it is up to the Italians to go further. The use of a frigate is fundamentally different from the use of the Godetia. It contributes more to the continuation in the future, because one can observe from much further. The fact that there are fewer people taking that route, I think is due to two things. The weather is getting worse, and that also clearly means that prices are falling, which is a question of supply and demand. The smugglers lower their price so that people would go along that route anyway. It is also due to the increased presence of European ships in the region, which means that routes other than the most dangerous route are taken. It is clear that the route by sea is dangerous; this year, as far as we know, more than three thousand people have died there. Because of the possibility of interception and prosecution, other routes are chosen.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic277x.u16	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. The contributions made by the frigate Leopold I in this context are indisputably fixed. The fact that this route is now less chosen by smugglers and people who want to flee to Europe proves that effective action has been taken. I have an additional political question, Minister, about the frigate Leopold I. We are now escorting the carrier Charles de Gaulle. It was said that mission and operation was written more on the body of a frigate. You say that the Godetia had a different mission. Will we in future engage our frigates, who can play a greater role in a conflict situation, in such surveillance missions? In your reply, you were not entirely clear about that. The mission with the Charles de Gaulle was written more on the body of a frigate. That is one of the important arguments for participating.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic277x.u17	Mr Yüksel, if you were to derive that from our discussions last week and today, you would not draw the right conclusion. I just wanted to show that a frigate has a number of possibilities that other ships don't have, namely the sensors. We can continue to track ships from 30 miles and find out what their route is. A frigate is a high-tech instrument. The escort of the carrier Charles de Gaulle is something our frigate absolutely must do. It should also be given a chance to train. A frigate has all the means to defend itself in case of emergency and is incredibly well equipped with sensors, which extend very far, and with good radars. If we bring the NH90 or Caiman on board, the radius will be greatly enlarged and additional sensors will be provided. So I do not see why we should not use them for this kind of assignment. It is clear that we must look at the added value we can offer for everything we will do in the future. The difference between Phase 2 and Phase 1 of the EU NAVFOR Med operation is that it was now effective in exposing smuggling networks. We are moving forward in this direction. The coordination of information from the various countries means that we are gradually being able to detect the roads used, where we are leaving and what methods we are working with. We can therefore continue to be discouraged, and hopefully in another phase, with the help of the UN, we will be able to deal effectively with smugglers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic277x.u18	Thank you, Minister, for that answer. My first question goes in the same direction as Mr Yüksel's earlier. I believe I understand that there were no interventions in Libyan waters? Did that bother the execution of operations in phase 2? Was it difficult to distract, board and investigate on the ground by not being able to operate in Libyan waters? My second question is similar to Mr Yüksel's. I believe I understand that you are in favour of re-engagement our country for this operation in 2016? That will be submitted to the Council of Ministers. You have indicated the difference between the deployment of a frigate, which has a wider scope and another way of observing, and the deployment of the Godetia, which is previously intended for rescue operations, boarding and the like. I have a few questions about this. Does the preference depend on which type of ship Belgium will deploy for this operation depending on the deployment of ships for other operations? Or does this preference largely depend on the demand and consultation with the other partners who will participate in the operation? You referred to the UN for dealing with smugglers. In the meantime, have new initiatives been taken to implement this phase? Otherwise we keep mopping with the tap open. It would be interesting if the UN were to take steps to carry out that operation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic277x.u19	Mr Top, the reply is actually intended to be briefly replicated. You ask more questions in your reply than in your original question. I was all messed up. I was wondering if you hadn't asked your question yet.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic277x.u20	These questions were raised in response to the Minister's reply. In the meantime, there is a difference with the question I tabled in September.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic277x.u21	Your interest graces you. Minister, would you like to answer that?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic277x.u22	Yeah, it's interesting to open the discussion. I'd be happy to answer that. It is important to know that the frigate is a multi-purpose mussel. It's a frigate MPV. That means that he can be used for different things. On the one hand, there is the military force on board, on the other hand, the force of observation. This makes it a very suitable ship for the current assignments, both for the Charles de Gaulle and for EU NAVFOR Med. The choice of the Godetia for the first phase is based on two elements. Firstly, the humanitarian mission. The Godetia does have some sensors, but is by far not as specialized as a frigate. The focus was on saving lives and gathering information. We were then in phase one, preventing even more deaths at sea. When we left, we thought the Godetia could take 150 people on board. The greatest rescue turned out to be going to two ships shortly after each other with more than 500 passengers. It was clear that there were more people on board than at a frigate. It was also about availability at the time. You know that the Godetia would normally go along as a command ship to a mine sweep operation in the Baltic Sea. There was a reschedule to another assignment. The Godetia was ready to travel north and finally went south. It was planned that the frigate off the American and Caribbean coast would act against smugglers, especially against drug smugglers in this case. So it was a similar assignment, albeit it was about drugs and not about people. Here, too, there was a reschedule of the mission to deploy the frigate in EU NAVFOR Med, coupled with the element with the French. Firstly, how can we achieve the most? It is very important that we think carefully about this question. Secondly, it is also a question of availability. You know that today we have two frigates, one of which is under maintenance. So we cannot use that. The frigate was also not available at that time. Also the staff of the frigate was not available, because you also know that the staff coincides with the ship. There are, of course, limitations in terms of staff. The crew of the frigate has been deployed a lot. My chief-in-law's son-in-law is on board. He's been gone almost five months in 2015. So there is a lot of demand from the staff. Those were the answers to your questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic277x.u23	Minister, thank you for your answers and your availability. When do you think that the decision can be taken for Belgium's future participation in EU NAVFOR MED? Will it be a frigate again?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic277x.u24	The 2016 operational plan is ready for submission to the Council of Ministers. Unlike before, I am taking more time and making flexible contributions to meet Europe's demands. But, in the meantime, the United Nations may decide on a different action. Anyway, I'm preparing the plan and I'm budgeting the operations. We'll see exactly what we're asked to do in the operations schedule. I am attentive to the fact that our action brings real added value, to the fact that the rules of engagement are clear and to the analysis of risks.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic277x.u25	Mr De Vriendt is not present and has not made any comments. Consequently, his question lapses.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic277x.u26	Madam President, Minister, on 23 September your cabinet confirmed the news that the US will finance modernisation plans at the base of Kleine-Brogel. Documents were also circulated online which discussed the modernisation work on both the logistics and the security framework for tactical nuclear weapons in Belgium. In overviews of the planned US Air Force Infrastructure works, Kleine-Brogel appears twice, both in budget documents of August 2014 and in a preview of the Society of American Military Engineers for planned works in the 2016 financial year. One of the documents states that the funds were granted on 30 September 2015. It would be the new construction of a logistics building for the maintenance of nuclear weapons in eleven underground bunkers. The US will also receive a new operational command post on Kleine-Brogel. It would be an investment of between EUR 458 000 and EUR 896 000. Minister, I would like an answer to the following questions. Firstly, it seems to me absurd that the US should provide for such investments without guaranteeing that nuclear weapons can remain in Belgium in the future. Have agreements been reached with the US on the permanent storage of these nuclear weapons? If so, how many nuclear weapons are we talking about? Is the number of 20 bombs mentioned correct? Are there plans to renew the existing bombs in the future? Secondly, in the coalition agreement you published a year ago together with your fellow Members, we read: 'Dismantling and non-proliferation are also a central concern in our security policy. We strongly support all credible and targeted efforts, preferably at European level, to ensure effective and balanced disarmament in the world, both in the nuclear and conventional fields. In addition, we continue to pay priority attention to the non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction." Can you explain to me how this statement can be reconciled with possible US investment in Small-Brogel? Thirdly, have agreements been made with the United States on the transport of nuclear bombs with new types of combat aircraft? Finally, can you confirm that the funds were granted on 30 September?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic277x.u27	Madam President, Minister, as my colleague has said, you have confirmed that work is under way or is scheduled on the basis of Kleine-Brogel. These are also information from the Air Force Civil Engineer Center and the Society of American Military Engineers. It seems to be a matter of modernizing hangars and setting up a new operational command centre for the 701e Munitions Support Squadron, an American unit responsible for keeping atomic bombs based in Kleine-Brogel. Minister, could you tell me more about the scope of this work? What is the aim? According to some information, it would be necessary to be able to accommodate the new version of the B-61-12 and thus to modernise these facilities and equip them in the light of these developments. This obviously raises many questions, including our long-term commitment to the presence of these weapons in our country. What kind of aircraft can they carry these bombs? One wonders about the openness of the current competition for the replacement of the F-16 because it is known that at present no aircraft can carry these bombs but that the F-35 could be developed in this direction. This also raises the open question of the possible handling of these weapons, the risk of manipulation, particularly in the radioactive field, and the possible information of the civilian authorities adjacent to the sites. What about the future of this base and the base of Florennes? It is known that discussions are under way, given the budgetary constraints on the existence of two air bases in Belgium. Is this not the indication that a gap is beginning to emerge between the planned, organised or ongoing work between these two bases? Is there not a concern about the respective investments in Florennes and Kleine-Brogel?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic277x.u28	Madam President, Mr Dallemagne, first of all, I do not confirm what you have said. The vault support facility is a parking space for vehicles. The MUNSS Ops Center is a cluster of administrative buildings. So we are talking about a location for vehicles and a cluster of administrative buildings. All new buildings will replace existing buildings that have come to the end of their lives. For the Americans, they're worn out a little faster than they are for us. That seems clear to me. The projects are co-financed by NATO and the US, using a key established by NATO. So these projects will not in any way generate expenditure on defence. I know that people like to link general discussions to every small news item on the new vehicle pitches. In accordance with the coalition agreement, Belgium opts for a realistic and pragmatic approach in the field of nuclear disarmament and non-proliferation, with the UN Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty and NATO's strategic concept as its first guiding principles. Belgium has agreed to the NATO strategic concept, which includes a deterrent policy based on conventional and nuclear capacity. Until the right conditions have been created to allow the worldwide elimination of nuclear weapons, NATO remains a nuclear alliance with a well-protected deterrent capacity. The adaptation of a seat for vehicles and administrative buildings is not at any time in contradiction with the resolution of 23 April 2015. The replacement of our F-16 debt instruments and the capacities that the successor must have are, of course, part of the strategic plan. I have not formally agreed with the US on this issue. I now come to the infrastructure aspect of the strategic plan. Mr Dallemagne, this will be part of the final phase. It is obvious that we must first know what we are going to do before deciding where we are going to do it. You will easily understand that I am not in a position to comment on this until the plan is endorsed by the government. In conclusion, the decision to renew their infrastructure is a unilateral decision of the United States.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic277x.u29	Mr. Secretary, as I see it, you're all about the hot stuff. The documents referring to adaptation works or modernisation have been mentioned. In the introduction to my question, I was talking about the modernisation of logistics, so that we could actually talk about vehicles and the security framework for tactical nuclear weapons. The U.S. documents don't lie about that. You are wandering around the question, yet you are still trying to relate to the nuclear alliance that still exists with our allies and which you still support. I therefore stick to my question and my comments on the matter. If it is true that it is a seat for vehicles, then that is correct and that is the logistical framework, which is mentioned in the US documents, for tactical nuclear weapons. I stand by my question, which we will be the first to address. Will we be committed to maintaining the nuclear alliance with the US and our partners, or are we finally going to make a real effort to get the nuclear weapons out of our country and out of the world? I did not receive an answer to the question of priority. All I can see is that nuclear weapons are given priority in carrying out their work.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic277x.u30	Mr Minister, you do not confirm, but when you are heard and read well, you fully confirm what is happening! You're saying it's American funding for American work.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic277x.u31	Mr Dallemagne, let us remain serious. I said I didn't confirm what you said. You don't have to make anything else out of that. I said I didn't confirm what you're saying. You don't have to make anything else out of it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic277x.u32	Minister, I do not see why you are raising your voice. I have conclusions that seem clear to me and I have the right to have the conclusions that I can have.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic277x.u33	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic277x.u34	I hear what you're saying. Of course, it is American funding, renewal, that there will be no cost to Belgium, that this operation is part of a NATO strategy, in which there is a pragmatic concept of the presence of nuclear weapons. All this is clear. Besides, all these secrets of Polichinelle have lasted long enough. They ensure that Parliament can never be involved in the discussion. With regard to such an essential issue, I deeply regret that Parliament is not involved in any way. We are one of the only democratic countries where this issue is never addressed when it is paramount in the context of our security, within the framework of our strategic concepts of defence. Let me point it out! We are in Parliament and parliamentarians can still speak on such fundamental issues. I continue to be concerned that we are being forced to deal with two issues that seem crucial to me. The first is the type of aircraft that will replace the F-16s. Indeed, as soon as we have this type of weapon, we will be trained – as we are told by the current competitors for the replacement of the F-16 – towards American aviation technology. I regret that this issue is biased from the outset. Secondly, I also regret that, de facto, a choice is made in favour of Kleine-Brogel in relation to Florennes. We will also have to pay great attention to this issue, because we are now being drawn to a choice that is not yet made but which could be imposed on itself. Finally, I regret that, in November 2015, when the government has been in place for more than a year, we are still not able to say what we are going to do and where.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic277x.u35	Madam President, Minister, the government will examine the future of the National Geographic Institute, the Royal Army Museum, the Central Service for Social and Cultural Action and the Institute for Veterans. A report will be forwarded to the government in the first year of the legislature. This can be seen in the coalition agreement of 9 October 2014. I would like an answer to the following questions. Can you tell me what progress has been made in investigating the future of the NGI? Has the debate already taken place on this subject? Have any conclusions been drawn? Will the National Geographic Institute remain part of the Defense Department or will it belong to another FOD? If so, for what reasons and under what FPS? Is the Registration Department at the FPS Finance a possible piste? Finally, the coalition agreement also mentions a working group, under the supervision of the Minister of Defence, which, together with the administrations, will evaluate the advantages and disadvantages of bringing the two parastaals closer together. Has the study of the working group been completed? What are the results of the investigation? Can the evaluation document be delivered to Parliament?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic277x.u36	Madam President, Minister, this is not the first time that I have asked you about the many difficulties in organizing the Royal Army Museum, which, if it is a federal scientific institution, operates under your supervision. For the PS group, memory work must be an essential prerogative of the work of National Defence, especially in the current times. Your parliamentary response at the end of May showed, alas, that there was no real political will in this area. In conjunction with the CGSP, we have already denounced the deterioration of working conditions within the institution and the absence of a real common strategy on the scientific, museum and tourist side, as well as the disappearance of certain pieces. This situation, often described as chaotic, is further illustrated by the old state that can be seen on the spot, such as that of the square courtyard of the Royal Museum of the Army which is still awaiting its renovation or the imbroglio which seems to reign in the setting up of the regional branches of the Museum (Bastogne and Brasschaat), de facto depriving the public of a true modern showcase of our precious historical heritage. Minister, will your strategic plan look at this memory work where the Royal Army Museum has its full role to play? Have you changed your view of the role of the historical and memory pole in Defence? The pressing time, what about the results of two ongoing studies that you told me about in your reply at the end of May on the future of the Museum? How do you intend to reinvigorate this museum in the long term, whose attendance figures have been in the dark for a few years? Do you, like your predecessor, intend to favour the use of external companies for the organization of temporary exhibitions rather than using the internal expertise of the Royal Army Museum, your department or the Federal Science Policy?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic277x.u37	Madam President, Minister, the Royal Museum of Army and Military History, located at the 50th anniversary in Brussels, is one of the largest museums in the country, recognized nationally but also internationally for the richness of its heritage. In addition to its collections of aircraft, cannons or old weapons, the Museum also holds a collection of armoured vehicles considered exceptional by many specialists. Until a few years ago, more than fifty armoured vehicles and battle tanks were exposed in the institution's square courtyard. Unfortunately, today, only a handful of these armoured vehicles are still there, as the court was closed to the public for lack of rehabilitation and recovery to allow for the proper exposure of these vehicles. A large part of the collection is therefore no longer visible on the Museum's site and the collection is waiting in vain for an appreciation of its richness. At present, with the closure of the Cinquantenaire square court, the armoured vehicles are therefore dispersed on the other two sites whose visibility is much more confidential. These are located on the margins of the country's major tourist routes and, moreover, the timetables for visits are very specific. I am thinking in particular of tourists coming from abroad. All elements of the Second World War were sent to Bastogne and are visible only in the form of guided tours and at very precise times until the beginning of the afternoon only. On the other hand, the cold-war vehicles are in Brasschaat, north of Antwerp, in a site only opened on Tuesday and Thursday for two hours and thirty minutes very precise. The public is thus in some way deprived of a part of an exceptional heritage, now divided, not always visible and unfortunately not sufficiently highlighted. Mr Minister, I would like to know whether this sharing of heritage is definitively endorsed. If so, could you explain the logic behind this sharing? What are the means that have been or will be put in place to facilitate information to the general public that is largely unaware of this sharing situation? Would not a solution be a rotating exhibition of the material through the three reception poles in order to further share this heritage and put it in the spotlight by giving access to as many people as possible? That is my second question. Minister, for many years, the Museum's entrance has always been free of charge. However, due to the necessary savings, the Royal Army Museum will pay for its entry from next January, thus breaking with a tradition highly appreciated by Belgian but also foreign visitors. The basic entry amount is expected to be EUR 5. This situation raises some questions. Indeed, one can legitimately fear that the direct consequence of this measure is a decrease in the number of visitors to the Museum, which would obviously reduce its visibility in Belgium as well as abroad. In addition, my attention has been drawn to the change in pricing policy as we move from free pricing to general pricing. Mr Minister, why not adopt a regime similar to that applied in neighbouring countries such as France, but also in Belgium, particularly in the Wallonia-Brussels Federation, where access to museums is free on the first Sunday of the month? Is this choice likely to attract your preference? In addition, could you tell me whether a pre-study was conducted to assess the impact of this tariff change? Have any recommendations been submitted to you? If so, what follow-up will you provide? In addition, parts of the Royal Army Museum are not always in the best condition. Renovation works from October 2015 to January 2016 are announced on the Museum's website, but at this stage they do not seem to be very advanced. Can you confirm that the new pricing will go hand in hand with the restoration of the Museum? If so, will the announced schedule be respected? Will admission to other exhibition sites directly dependent on the Museum (in Bastogne and Brasschaat) also be paid in January 2016? Finally, I visited the Royal Army Museum's website. To my astonishment, a page devoted to future pricing states: "The money opens all the doors... and so soon also those of the Royal Army Museum. We, in turn, are affected by budgetary restrictions. Also, it is death in the soul that we make access to our rooms, free for more than a century, paying from January 5, 2016. We need this money to maintain the activity of the Museum, to renovate our rooms, to preserve our rich collections for generations to come." Minister, is it up to the management of the Museum to witness the public? Were you aware of the presence of this content on the site? Should we not convey a less committed, more neutral message?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic277x.u38	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, according to the coalition agreement, the necessary reflections are currently being carried out on the future, the status and the place of the public benefit institutions under my supervision. Since there are several links between the respective dossiers, I will not deliver to the government a comprehensive reform plan on these parastals until after all the studies have been completed. The intention is to do so in early 2016. Mr Top, with regard to the NGI, I can confirm that there has been a final analysis of different scenarios and that the choice is political. The file follows the same path as I will tell you now. The two studies on the future of the Royal Museum of the Army and Military History (MRA), including that of the Defence Historical Pole, have led to a number of different avenues. They also demonstrate that it is impossible to design a plan for one parastatal without causing an impact on another. The "Memory" component is a perfect example of this, as it affects both the MRA and the Veteran's Institute or the Directorate-General "Victims of War" of the SPF Social Security. The MRA receives an overall allocation for its operation, including that of its external sites. Please be aware that it is impossible to display the complete collection of MRA tanks on the site of the 50th Anniversary. That seems clear to me. This is why the ad interim management of the Museum decided to divide the collection into three places: the Cinquantenaire, Brasschaat and Bastogne. World War II tanks are on this site due to the presence of the McAuliffe cellar. Cold War armoured vehicles are located in Brasschaat. At the 50th anniversary, most of the armoured personnel were temporarily evacuated due to stabilization work being undertaken by the Régie des Bâtiments in the Square Court. The renovation works in Halle Bordreau are planned for early 2016 after the dismantling of the exhibition 14-18. In any case, the objective remains to allow the general public access to the MRA's heritage. With regard to access to the 50th anniversary site, in addition to the normal rate of five euros, discounts and even free access for certain categories of persons are provided. I refer you to the dozens of written questions I have already answered. In addition, the MRA will provide free general access on the first Wednesday of each month, as is the practice of other museums on the Cinquantenaire site. The decision to charge an entry fee for the various sites of the MRA, except for the sites of Brasschaat and Bastogne, aims to compensate, thanks to the increase in own revenue, for the decrease in allocations which affects the MRA like all other public interest organisations, whose accounts are consolidated with those of the State. With regard to the communication on paid entries on the MRA website, I asked the ad interim management to replace the current text with a more neutral message. With regard to the selection process for the new Director, it can only be launched once the government has made a decision on the future of the MRA and the other parastatals.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic277x.u39	Mr Minister, since the declaration of government included the promise that this would be examined within the year and that the result would be presented, it was my intention to hear it. Just as it is awaiting the strategic plan, we will therefore wait until the beginning of 2016 for the global evaluation. As far as the future of the NGI is concerned, I understand that there are different scenarios. You say it's going to be a political choice. To my knowledge, there are no choices in this House other than political unless they are taken by other people. I assume that this choice will be made very carefully and I await your next initiative.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic277x.u40	A political choice has its side, and you will, of course, insert it into it. It will be a choice of the Council of Ministers based, of course, on all the data available.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic277x.u41	Minister, thank you for your answers. As with the strategic plan, we have to wait. In fact, we are also waiting for the results of this study, which you say is global. I can understand that, but, as my colleague said, we were hoping for answers before that. In addition, Mr. Jambon's questions concerning the Régie des Bâtiments also remain unanswered. I think our concern about this fundamental tool in the work and duty of memory is understandable. I would simply like to say to my colleague from the MR that I have no problem with the fact that it is paid, as long as there is a return to what is offered to the citizen in terms of service. I hope that there will no longer be recourse to outsiders, as was the case with Expo 14-18. I would like to take this opportunity, Minister, to ask you if this exhibition will be sustainable. Or is it going to disappear, since it is organised by outsiders? Finally, I would like to address my colleague from the MR, a member of the majority, to invite him to co-sign the text on the duty of memory and citizenship tabled by the PS, which will normally be taken into consideration this Thursday because it was one of the commitments that had been made in the policy note.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic277x.u42	Minister, thank you for your answers. I have heard that the renovations are planned and must be carried out by the Régie des Bâtiments. I would like to know if there are any consultations between the Régie des Bâtiments and you or Minister Jambon. What is the state of play? We have already had the opportunity to discuss the budget of the Régie des Bâtiments in the Finance Committee. Nevertheless, I would have liked to have a more precise agenda. If you can't give it to me today, I will speak to Minister Jambon. As far as the tanks are concerned, I have heard what you have said, namely that, temporarily, some of these tanks are no longer visible here in Brussels. I would have wanted to know if any thought could be given to how these tanks could be "turned" in the future, so that they could be visible on all of these three sites. It would be really interesting if we could see them because it is not necessarily easy – I am thinking also of foreign tourists – to go to the other two sites. Could we not improve communication to these other two sites to have a complete view of the collection? Finally, on free admission, I have no major problem with the fact that, as I said, the entrance is paid for, but it is also accompanied by an upgrading of the museum and therefore works. I heard it was going on. I just wanted to insist on one more point. You told me that the museum was free on the first Wednesday of the month, aligning itself with the policy of other federal museums. But as we move from a free-of-charge in this museum to a paid formula, I would like to know whether the question of the first Sunday of the month could not be considered and whether any thought could be given to it, in addition. I also wanted to thank you for all of these answers. We will continue our reflection on this subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic277x.u43	Mr Minister, young people aged between 16 and 35 who, during the early beginning of the Second World War, were called in May 1940 to go to the recruitment centres in West Flanders, namely the RCLB or RCBL, only the status of military title has so far been granted. The young people who responded to that call have demonstrated their duty to help defend their country. Each of them has suffered the consequences of the horrors of the Nazis. After the liberation in September 1944, several laws were passed and signed by the then Regent Charles. One of those laws stipulated that members were not entitled to compensation or to the status of military. In 1990 a royal decree was passed by which the members of the RCBL obtained the status of national gratitude. The military status has not yet been granted. Those members wandered around in civilian clothing, did not receive any pay and received very limited or no medical assistance and no food. Moreover, their safety was not assured, causing many members to die or injured. Hundreds of members died in bombardments, were shot by the Germans or succumbed to the consequences of their injuries, exhaustion, malnutrition or infections they contracted because of the lack of hygiene in the camps and quarters in southern France. The youngest members who went to war in 1940 are today over 90 years old. Many Members would no longer be able to enjoy the benefits of a military statute, but obtaining it could be an enormous token of recognition. In this way, the injustice done to many of the members can be undone. Minister, is there any possibility that the government will grant these people a full military status? If so, what is the estimated cost of that award? How many more people could claim such status?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic277x.u44	Mr Top, your question corresponds to the written parliamentary question No. Mr Daniel Senesael of 26 August 2015 on the Staff Regulations of the RCBL. I will briefly explain what I have said. RCBL's status was granted to 8 268 persons. On the basis of the law of 18 February 2000, the RCBL members are allowed to conduct the moral title of military. However, the status of military depends on two cumulative conditions laid down in the Law of 15 February 1937, namely, firstly, effective entry into service, and secondly, the reading of a summary of military laws. According to the judgment of the second Chamber of the Brussels Appeal Court of 19 September 2003, RCBL members do not fulfil the condition of effective recruitment. As a result, they cannot be granted the status of military.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic277x.u45	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Your answer will do.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic277x.u46	Madam President, Minister, Defence would tear down the present quarter of Queen Elisabeth on the border of Evere and Saint-Stevens-Woluwe to build a new headquarters. At least this is what ships of Spatial Planning say, Mr. Eric Van Rompuy. All existing buildings would be demolished to focus at the new headquarters on a drastic reduction in staff and operating costs. One third of the current surface area would be preserved for the Defense Department. According to Mr Van Rompuy, the ministry contacted the municipality of Zaventem. I'll come to my questions. Can you confirm Mr Eric Van Rompuy's statements? Is there going to be a whole new headquarters? What happens to the current site? Will the land be sold? How drastically do you see the staff cuts he's talking about? Finally, is such a decision logically not related to your strategic vision? Why are these plans already expressed before the adoption of your strategic plan?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic277x.u47	Madam President, Mr Top, as you know, we in the Defense Department are always happy when people want to contribute free of charge. This also applies to Mr Eric Van Rompuy from Zaventem, our new spokesperson, who seems to be able to announce a number of things for the defence sector. The coalition agreement of 9 October 2014 provides for the rationalisation and centralisation of a thinned defence staff. Both in my policy statement and in my 2015 policy paper, I indicated that I will work on this. Studying and operationalising alternative financing methods, such as Queen Elisabeth's quarters, where construction projects could be financed by the proceeds of surplus parts of the military domain, is also part of the contours of the coalition agreement. Of course, the future workforce, the size of the defence staff and the installation of the headquarters will be in line with the strategic plan. As regards the file on the future of Queen Elisabeth's quarters, there have indeed been discussions with all the authorities involved to examine their interests and views. A study was also drawn up on the feasibility of the project. There will probably be discussions in the near future and information will still be sought, but decisions will not be taken until I have all the pieces of this complex dossier at my disposal. The strategic plan is an element of that. I can always and very much refer to that strategic plan. The fact is that, regardless of the outcome of the strategic plan, we will always carry out rationalisation exercises. In this context, not only for this file but for many other files studies for business cases have been started and ordered. We are looking, independently of the financing of defence in the future, at how we can carry out what we are doing today more rationally and with less resources, laying the necessary foundations for the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic277x.u48	Mr Minister, I am actually pleased that these rationalisation exercises continue. If we have to wait for the strategic vision and the related decisions on rationalization in the defence sector, that would be a pity for the large amount of money spent on it. So waiting for the strategic vision remains a difficult issue. The decisions will only be taken afterwards and then effectively implement those decisions. I must point out that Mr Van Rompuy spoke partly in turn when he spoke of drastic staff savings. That's not his jurisdiction, that's your jurisdiction. That is the implementation of the strategic vision and of that plan. That is my reflection on all the press reports on this issue. I am, of course, pleased that the rationalisations remain at your core, even before the strategic vision is decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic277x.u49	Madam President, Minister, it was decided at the Council of Ministers on 24 September that Belgium would make a contribution of seven soldiers to ASIFU in the framework of the MINUSMA peacekeeping operation. Three Belgian soldiers will be deployed at headquarters and four soldiers will be integrated into the intelligence unit in the Dutch camp in Gao. The military stays in Mali all year 2016. In Mali, a peace treaty was concluded on 20 June 2015 that allows for cautious optimism and hope. In the meantime, this text is already partly obsolete, but that is what my fellow Members' questions are responding to. However, there is still an increased threat and a bad situation in different regions of the country. The peace treaty was signed by an important coalition of Tuaregrebels and the Malian government. The rebels of the National Liberation Movement for Azawad joined other armed groups who had signed the agreement more than a month before. The peace treaty contains an agreement whereby the Tuaregs are given very limited self-government. Of course, the conclusion of such an agreement is not a guarantee of short-term peace. The agreement hardly talks about autonomy or federalism, but about regional parliaments, the inclusion of rebels in the government army and more members from the North in the government apparatus. Those are elements of previous failed peace treaties. I therefore have the following questions, Minister. Would it be possible to outline a state of play on the current security situation in Mali? Have you addressed your colleague in the Netherlands for more information about the assignment? Cooperation with local partners is of great importance. Can you comment on the way in which contacts with local partners and authorities are conducted? In what way will our soldiers be able to cooperate with the Dutch military? How many Dutch soldiers are in Mali? What does participation in this mission mean financially for the Defense Department? Is the military contribution also linked to a humanitarian contribution in Mali? Does Belgium provide material to collect information and the like? Is there sufficient funds available in Mali for this? At the Council of Ministers on 17 July 2015, it was decided that a Belgian military would participate in the MINUSMA mission in Gao. He or she would be employed in the Dutch command center for a period of six months from August 2015. Does that decision remain unchanged or is it now part of one of the seven military forces that will operate in Mali in 2016?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic277x.u50	Minister, the attacks on a hotel in Bamako remind us, if necessary, that Mali remains in a difficult political and security situation. In many cases, Bamako is not considered to be the capital of a centralized state. As a result, there are still a lot of problems with some tribes. As part of the EUTM Mali, our country is present in this partner country of our Development Cooperation with some 80 troops until mid-January 2016. Our soldiers are essentially carrying out a mission to protect EUTM installations, instructors and personnel with the Malian Force Protection company. In the event of an incident, they may also participate in a rapid reaction force. So, Minister, so far, what is your assessment of our participation in the EUTM? Do you intend to develop, after January 2016, new missions for our National Defence in this country or region, which is a central strategic axis, to prevent the creation within the Sahel of a jihadist international following agreements between several factions? How does our military presence fit in with our diplomatic and development efforts? What is the current state of the security situation and the support and training of Malian forces? What about the statements made by the Spanish Prime Minister proposing that the Spanish army should replace the French army in Mali and the Central African Republic, so that France could concentrate on Syria? Given the current situation, has our country already or could it become involved in a rapid reaction force?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic277x.u51	Minister, I would have wanted to know if our men had been involved in one way or another in the attack on the Radisson Hotel in Bamako. What happened at the time of this attack in relation to our military presence on site? Was there any involvement? Any movement, any protection? Were any initiatives taken at the time of this terrorist attack on 20 November? What is the possible impact of this attack on the Belgian military presence in Mali? You mentioned that the French could ask us to strengthen our operations in Africa while they focus on Syria. Is this one of the countries where the French could ask us to extend or extend our involvement? How would this be done? In the framework of the EUTM? MINUSMA? Or from another international force?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic277x.u52	Madam President, at the end of her current mandate, by mid-May 2016, the European training mission of the Malian armed forces, EUTM Mali, will likely have achieved its objectives of establishing and training Malian units. At the same time, it is proposed that the Belgian contribution focused on the protection of instructors and the facilities of this mission be terminated. Subsequently, a smaller number of advisers and instructors could be proposed for a possible new EU mission. On EUTM Mali's assessment, the mandate was to train eight Malian units before the end of the mission in 2016. The seventh unit is currently under training and an eighth is expected to be formed in early 2016. Since May 2015, Belgian soldiers assigned to the headquarters of the French Rapid Reaction Corps in Lille have been deployed to the headquarters of Operation Barkhane, a cross-border anti-terrorist operation in the Sahelo-Saharan band. It will be proposed to maintain this commitment, which brings together Belgians and French. Since August 2015, a Belgian exchange officer has also participated in the Mission multidimensionalelle intégrée des Nations Unions pour la stabilisation au Mali, MINUSMA, for a period of six months, together with the Dutch unit. The total cost of the deployment of this military in 2015 is estimated at EUR 20 767 gross, EUR 17 460 net on the operational budget for 2015. The military contribution made there is not linked to a humanitarian contribution. The Belgian officer is not part of the seven military forces that will be deployed within the framework of ASIFU, All Sources Information Fusion Unit. These last military forces will be deployed from December 2015. The possible deployment in 2016 of an inter-weapon tactical group in the Sahel is also under consideration. Finally, it should be proposed to re-establish a military assistance mission in the region, as was the case in 2015. For a state of affairs regarding the security situation in southern Mali, I refer to the committee responsible for the follow-up of foreign missions, which meets behind closed doors on 3 December. With regard to the attack on the Radisson Blue Hotel in Bamako, additional security measures were taken for the Belgian military, i.e. an increase in the number of soldiers per vehicle, wearing bulletproof vests, curfew after 10 p.m., exits for operational reasons only, etc. The Belgian military in Mali have in no way been engaged to neutralize the terrorists. The attack in Radisson did not have an impact on the tasks of the Belgian detachment in Mali, nor on possible intentions elsewhere in the Sahel - I think it takes an hour and a half to two hours' drive to go from Bamako to Koulikoro.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic277x.u53	Minister, I have two reservations. There is last week's story about the entire war zone, both in the Middle East and in Africa. I should not call it a front in order to find a solution in those areas. It is true that we need to focus on stabilising Mali. I am pleased that this mission is committed to this and that consideration is being given to it in the future, together with other partners, you spoke about France, and there is also thought to be a great deal of attention for Spain, both in the military and, indeed, in the diplomatic field. Finally, I am also pleased, Mr President, that I did not expect any other reply from you, Mr President, that additional security measures will be taken for our soldiers on the ground. No one would like anyone to stop coming back from over there. All security measures must therefore be taken, as far as possible, of course.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic277x.u54	Minister, a military intervention in Mali seems to me necessary. However, it is not enough, as it must be accompanied by a development-oriented political component. One of the local problems is the trafficking of all kinds in which many young people live, who obviously find it difficult to recognise a central political authority. More generally, Africa must remain one of our priorities as it is traditionally part of our sphere of political influence.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic277x.u55	Minister, I will support all the efforts that will be made by our country to contribute to the stabilization of this extremely fragile and troubled region. It also seems to me wise for Europe to deploy an inter-weapon tactical group in the Sahel. I also approve of our participation in Barkhane HQ, Chad. There may be a need to increase power in this regard. In general, I would not like our contribution to Mali to go down. Indeed, you have announced that this would be the case for our participation in the EUTM. Therefore, we should be redeployed to other essential tasks.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic277x.u56	Madam President, Minister, several detailed plans for police and judicial buildings appeared on the Human Resources and Organisation website. The plans of the military headquarters in Evere and the NATO building SHAPE were also available online on the federal procurement website. The military headquarters in Evere are home to the ADIV, among others. Precise locations and plans of the ADIV buildings are sensitive information. Both buildings are classified and the publication of their plans is a criminal offence according to law. The Law of 11 December 1998 on classification and security clearances, safety attestations and safety advice provides in Article 11: "The holder of a security authorisation who uses or uses classified information, documents or data, material, materials or substances in the performance of his duties in an inappropriate manner as referred to in Article 4, even if this is the result of negligence, to the extent that it is serious, shall be punished...... In addition, there was also a plan to be found on the same site, Mr Buysrogge referred to it in his first question on which NATO pipelines were to be seen. These pipelines are responsible for the supply of air bases, including military bases. There's kerosene flowing through the pipes. The Central European Pipeline System carries one million cubic metres of fuel each year through kilometres of pipelines throughout our country. Are security checks carried out when managing such documents? Such publications make me question the security of some of the most sensitive buildings in the country. In view of the current situation, and regardless of the legal aspect, do you not think that risks are being taken by simply disseminating this information? Why were the websites not immediately thoroughly checked after the first leaks? How does such sensitive information end up on those websites? Has an investigation been carried out before? What were the results of that study, if any? Are you aware that such publications may have criminal consequences? Have any procedures been initiated for this? Following the article in question, have you already taken legal action? Finally, I have a very specific question about the publication of NATO and pipeline plans. Have you received any response from NATO to this? Finally, your colleague, Minister Jambon, had a non-waterproof framework directive drawn up for the publication of public contracts via e-Notification and Free Market, whereby the documents would appear on the platform via a secure electronic link. This Directive shall apply to the Government of the Buildings. What measures will you take in this respect?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic277x.u57	Madam President, Mr Top, I leave your personal qualification of Minister Jambon's directive to you. I won't rule on that. Internally, documents placed online are carefully and systematically checked with the Defence Department, so that sensitive or classified information is not made available to the general public. That seems obvious to me. In case of doubt, the Defense Security Department is asked to issue an opinion. Where, for certain reasons, for example in the case of public procurement, sensitive and/or classified information is to be brought to the attention of firm debt holders, specific measures shall be taken, for example by examining the legislation under which the file should be dealt with, for classic sectors or for defence and security services. On the basis of the advice of the security service, tenderers may be subject to a level of safety as a selection criterion. For example, a selection phase based on a security clearance may also be applied before a contract documents are delivered to potential tenderers if the contract documents contain classified information. Another example is the application of safety procedures to the tenderer retained if the contract is carried out in a classified zone. In view of the application of the procedures, no documents containing classified information shall be published. I would therefore like to make it clear that the published 15-minute plans, which were raised in the press in a sensational way, contain less details than those available online via an open source, such as Google Maps. As a result of the leaks or so-called leaks, a check of the files took place on the e-Procurement website. No violations of military security were identified. Nor did the result of the above-mentioned investigation reveal any element concerning the compromise of military security. No infringements of the Law of 11 December 1998 were therefore found. No legal action was therefore taken either. I have not received any response from NATO in any way. Making documents available via a secure electronic link is a procedure available for all purchasing services using e-Notification and Free Market. Within the Defense Department, there is a directive available to re-examine the procedure in detail.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic277x.u58	Minister, I am glad that there are procedures. You have spoken about the plans of NATO quarters, but I do not, by chance or otherwise, hear anything about your opinion and advice ever given on the NATO pipelines. I don't hear any of that. I can give you very illustrative information that in that description all the streets where the pipeline passes, with the markings in the streets, are given in a PowerPoint, in detail. In today's times, when there is always talk of insecurity in our capital and surroundings, I find it very strange that an opinion should be issued as if it were not covered by the security conditions. Like the journalist, I have a different opinion on sensitive information about NATO pipelines.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic277x.u59	Mr Top, we can discuss for a very long time what you think should or should not be classified. I assume that NATO and the people responsible for the pipeline have thought carefully about this and have looked at how or not they should release documentation. From the sector in which I myself have been active in the past, I can also inform you that, provided that a simple question is asked, it is legally required to provide that information if someone has to work on a particular site.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic277x.u60	Of course, there is a legal obligation to provide that information. That's right. However, you will then be checked who you are and a security check will be carried out in this way. All listed documents are freely available on the Internet. We have not had to sign up for it so far. The documents are freely available and there is no control over who requested them. That's the big difference.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic277x.u61	Madam President, Minister, you will allow me to update my question orally because it was tabled on October 1, 2015, and since then the situation has changed. At first, the Afghan army had not been able to keep Kunduz. It had fallen into the hands of the Taliban who had seized the city in a few hours, apparently overflowing easily with the 5,000 to 7,000 Afghan soldiers present, even though they were far fewer. Since then, the city has been taken over with terrible collateral damage, such as the bombing of a MSF hospital. The security situation in Afghanistan therefore seems to continue to be very worrying and it would appear that Afghans – who can no longer rely on the ground support of NATO forces – have the greatest difficulty in maintaining stability in the region against the Taliban. I would therefore like to ask you, Minister, the following questions. How do you view the security situation in Afghanistan? What is, at present, NATO's continued assistance to Afghan forces in this, to say the least, volatile security environment? Finally, what about the Belgian presence on the ground, both in terms of the missions carried out by our soldiers and the consequences of this situation for their security? I still want proof, since it is announced in the press this morning, that fifteen soldiers were captured by the Taliban, including two foreigners, following an emergency landing of a helicopter.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic277x.u62	Madam President, Minister, a few years ago more than 150,000 foreign soldiers were present in Afghanistan. Today there are about ten thousand. In October 2012, our Belgian military transferred the security from Kabul International Airport to the Hungarians. Currently, some 20 Belgians are still working in the Afghan capital, as well as 54 in Mazar-e-Sharif. An Afghan saying is: never be bitten twice by the same snake. I therefore share the concern that the investments made by the Belgians and the entire international community in the past should not be lost. A repetition of the devastating civil war in the 1990s, following the withdrawal of the Soviet Union, is really not desirable. That is why I have the following questions. Has there been any consultation with our allies, and in particular with Germany? Germany recently decided to send another 130 soldiers to Afghanistan, bringing their total to 980. What are the main conclusions of the consultation? If that consultation has not yet taken place, when will it be planned and what will be our message? My second question is specifically about our military. What tasks and tasks are we considering extending over time, of course, if that is the case? Is it possible to give an idea of the budgetary impact of such a decision, if any?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic277x.u63	Madam President, Minister, in a radio interview with the public service, you recently announced that you would reconsider the withdrawal of our troops from Afghanistan in consultation with Germany. This autumn, the Resolute Support operation would begin with the gradual withdrawal of our troops from Afghanistan. However, the US has stopped withdrawing its troops and then asked NATO to also keep troops from other participating countries in post. In the meantime, a NATO document has also been leaked announcing the decision that the allies would stay longer, and so is Belgium. Minister, what is your intention to consider an extension of our presence in Afghanistan based on? What is the security situation in Afghanistan at the moment? Has it changed in such a way that a longer stay is necessary and justified? What presence do you intend to maintain? Will this be a training mission, a protection mission or any other commitment? Were you directly or indirectly addressed by the United States? Have there been discussions with Germany and other partners? In the interview you specifically referred to Germany. If so, what are the results? Has the file been discussed at government level? In addition, if I may believe the document and the decision of NATO, the extension is also included in the 2016 Schedule of Operations. Is that right?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic277x.u64	Minister, a little over a year ago, the last Belgian F-16 left Kandahar and returned to Belgium. Since then, the Belgian military presence has continued to decline and has now reached its lowest level, in more than ten years of presence on the ground. We are still deployed in Kabul (about 10 men) and Mazar-e-Sharif (about 50 men). Can you tell me what these numbers are? What are currently the missions of the various Belgian forces deployed in Afghanistan? What is planned in the short, medium and long term for our on-site deployment? Is it still planned to leave Afghanistan completely at the end of 2016? On 16 October, when the United States had just announced its decision to rethink the withdrawal of its troops, you said that "if we leave Afghanistan too soon, before the existing power is fully "in charge", it would be a shame in view of the investments we have made in the past". So you want to "rethink the question", in connection with our partners (NATO, USA, Germany). On what elements do you intend to base your re-evaluation and base your decision? Could Belgium extend, modify, intensify its mission and presence in Afghanistan? Under what terms, with what numbers and on what budgets? What are the new deadlines you could set? In this context, what analysis do you make of the situation on the spot, especially where Belgian troops are present today and where they have been in the past? My colleagues have quoted the events in Kunduz, where we were present for a very long time. What can we do about our mission in Afghanistan after more than ten years? What is your analysis of the very rapid deterioration of the situation after our departure? How do you explain that two years after the departure of the Belgian forces from the region, Kunduz is again the scene of extremely violent confrontations? I have another question about the bombardment of MSF's hospital. MSF's Belgian section was operating there. We are particularly concerned about this bombing which killed at least 22 people, MSF collaborators and hospital patients. I will not go back to the fact that this hospital was clearly identified with the forces present in Afghanistan. There is every reason to believe that American aviation was acting within the framework of Resolute Support Mission, that is, the NATO military mission in Afghanistan under the mandate of the UN Security Council. Minister, have you had any contact with your American counterpart about this tragic event? Have you asked NATO and the U.S. General Staff for explanations on this matter? What information has been provided to you? Do you support MSF's request for an independent investigation? We know that three investigations are under way, but it cannot be said that they are completely independent since they are carried out by forces which have been involved in one way or another in this bombing. However, there is an international mechanism for establishing an independent investigation. In my view, MSF is right to ask for this mechanism to be used. Since a Belgian association is concerned here, I believe that Belgium should fully support this request. Do you support this request?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic277x.u65	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, most of your questions will be dealt with within the framework of the Foreign Operations Monitoring Committee, since some information is classified. As far as our presence in Afghanistan is concerned, we are in constant consultation with NATO and with the German authorities to maximise the synchronisation and coordination of our participation in the Resolute Support operation. Any further contribution to Resolute Support and any extension of the Belgian contribution to the German quota will be decided in consultation with the partners and, of course, Mr Yüksel, in consultation with the government. The Belgian presence in RSM will decrease in accordance with the operational concept of RSM and will be synchronised with Germany as the northern framework nation. On 15 October 2015, President Obama announced that he would retain 9 800 troops until the end of 2016 in the operative part of phase 1. In January 2017, the US plans to reduce its troops to 5 500. The President's decision is not the result of recent events in Afghanistan, but of months of internal deliberations. The US is asking the Allies to extend their efforts until the end of 2016. Germany indicates that there is a growing consensus among them to remain in Afghanistan after 2016, insofar as the other Allies with which Germany cooperates in the north could also confirm their continued presence or commitment towards Germany. A German announcement is expected in the course of December. However, I can tell you that the day before yesterday a meeting of the participating countries took place in the TAAC-North in Berlin. There was talk of an extension until the end of 2016, but not yet a possible extension until 2017. It was initially planned that Belgium would withdraw its troops from Mazar-e-Sharif by February 2016 and from Afghanistan by the end of 2016. The final Belgian position will be determined in consultation with the coalition partners. The security situation in Afghanistan and the bombing of the Médecins Sans Frontières Hospital have retained and are still receiving special attention within NATO. The general rules are, of course, that civilian casualties and collateral damage should be avoided as far as possible. It's about what I'm responsible for or not responsible for. If Belgian soldiers are deployed in any operation, the target designation is part of a decision cycle. In the coalition headquarters there is then a Belgian red card holder, an experienced officer who can possibly be strengthened with a legat, a legal advisor. He has the right to cancel an operation if all the required parameters are not met. Since there were no Belgian soldiers involved in the operations around Kunduz and the investigation is still ongoing, it is difficult to find out who gave the orders or why the hospital was attacked. The fact is that one week after the event at a NATO meeting, my American counterpart apologized and announced that a joint investigation committee of Afghan military and coalition soldiers was appointed to investigate the causes of the air attack at the hospital. Belgium is not involved in this investigation. The Defence cannot rule on the legal qualification of this particular incident because it does not have all the data necessary to conduct this analysis. International customary law recognizes that medical, civil and military units that are used exclusively for medical use must, in all circumstances, be spared and protected. Of course, I share that vision. Finally, the Belgian Defence has not known the number of civilian casualties since the beginning of Resolute Support Mission.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic277x.u66	Minister, thank you for your answers. You might think I'm a "3D" obsessive, but I think Defense, Diplomacy and Development must always be connected. I will return to this particularly binary vision that George Bush had of the world. It is clear that, more than ten years after the first American interventions in Afghanistan, nothing is resolved at all in terms of the complexity of the political situation. Everyone knows very well that there are tribes, themselves divided into clans, with the presence of local leaders playing informal roles who ally or fight the Taliban according to their interests of the moment. I fully understand that you cannot have an official opinion on what has happened at MSF. This is quite normal because no Belgian military was involved in the operation. I am very much in favour of my colleague Mr Dallemagne. I do not believe that the Pentagon is the most independent and transparent body in the world and, in my personal capacity, I do not believe in a radio-guiding error or a huge blow of wind that would have diverted the bomb.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic277x.u67	I welcome your clear answers, Minister. I am pleased that you are in permanent consultation with NATO in Germany and that there was discussions last Monday. I also assume that the specific tasks will be the subject of any decision taken.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic277x.u68	I have kept two things in mind: firstly, last week's Berlin meeting in which an engagement was requested until the end of 2016. Secondly, in your reply you said that we intend to stay there with the current people. Will more troops go to Afghanistan in 2016, regardless of the decision on the post-2016 period? You say that you will look into this within the government and with your partners. On 1 and 2 December 2015, there will be a NATO meeting of Foreign Ministers and perhaps also of Defence. This file will be there on the table. What position will you or your Foreign Minister take at that important meeting?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic277x.u69	Minister, with regard to the possible extension of our presence in Afghanistan, I hope that there will be a real debate before you engage. Our presence in Afghanistan, its form, its intensity, this issue has been highly debated in our Parliament. I would like to see an in-depth debate on the stocktaking and the reasons why we would possibly continue our actions in Afghanistan. I do not wish the government to engage without prior debate in Parliament. It's the custom, it's the habit of extending operations. I would like us to maintain this custom. This can take place with the Minister of Foreign Affairs. I think that this is a matter of sufficient seriousness and importance for it not to be debated only in the government's private or in camera of a military operations commission abroad. We need to have a serious debate on the purpose, objectives and scope of this commitment. With regard to the bombing of MSF's hospital in Kunduz, I hear that the Americans are going to publish their report. A recent dispatch Belga announced it. They refer to a series of human mistakes. The information they give is pretty scary. Obviously, a stack of errors has led to this indiscriminate bombardment, if we understand the information that is coming to us. Minister, this is an extremely professional and serious international organization, which had clearly pointed out its hospital. Everyone knew the presence of this hospital and everyone agrees today, despite everything that was said in the first few hours after the bombing, that it was absolutely no threat and that there were no fighters there. I would like Belgium to support the request for an independent investigation. I'm not saying the Americans are gonna lie. I think they are simply not in a position to conduct an independent investigation. The perpetrator of a bombardment, error, attack or strike is not asked to investigate himself as to how this happened and why there was a mistake. This is being asked of an independent body. I think this is the only way to make the whole truth and learn all the lessons from this incident. I would like Belgium to take this seriously. I would remind you that this is an organisation based in Belgium. I think we should be able to get involved in this important issue. This is the worst attack on MSF in its history.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic277x.u70	Mr Yüksel, it will depend on what the Germans are asking. You know what we're doing today. I am not thinking of a backup. I am thinking of the principle together from home, with eight European countries working specifically in the north. So my principle is out together, together at home. We need to look at what we can contribute. However, I have announced, like the Germans, that we can provide the necessary people at that level for the specific tasks we are carrying out today, and that we can do so for another year. After that, however, we would like to use those involved in other matters. If we continue to contribute, it may be a different form of operation. You know that today we are mainly active in the detection and training of IED or improvised explosive devices. You also know that we are using a number of dogs there and that we are decontaminating equipment from the partners on the spot that is being returned. These are specific units, mainly of the Genie and the Demining. If we look towards Mali and other countries, we would consider such a commitment there too. In this respect, however, our capacities are limited. That is why we must be careful about it. The fact is, however, that I myself have indicated that I will consider any question favourably. I am quite sure that my Foreign Minister will adopt the same position on 1 and 2 December 2015.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic277x.u71	Minister, since this is an issue that dates back to October, I will allow myself to update it. On March 18, I asked you about the soldiers on the streets following a government decision to extend this temporary arrangement. On the question of costs, you answered that "the estimated cost of deploying 210 military personnel is €1.14 million per month. This will have no impact on the defence budget." It must be noted that there is nothing at present. Indeed, while this operation would have cost a little less than EUR 10 million from 17 January to 30 September (of which just under EUR 9 million would have been borne by your colleague Jan Jambon's Internal SPF), we learned from the parliamentary re-entry that none of the invoices sent by the Defence to the Interior to pay for this deployment had been settled. In this context, I would therefore like to ask you, Minister, the following questions. What about reimbursement by the Internal FPS of these missions to your department? Has a solution been found? If not, what are the consequences of this non-reimbursement and why? If the refund has not been made, when is the refund to be made? What now, budgetaryly, as a result of the announcement of nearly 1,000 soldiers on the streets? Will contacts be made with social partners to find a solution to the current work overload? I would also like to acknowledge the presence of the military union in this room and their dedication to the operation. Finally, the Prime Minister announced an exceptional budget of €400 million for security. Does this amount concern your department? If so, for what purposes? What are the implications for your future strategic plan?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic277x.u72	Madam President, I have a question. I can see that these are combined questions, with two questions from me being mentioned.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic277x.u73	You can ask the two questions immediately after each other.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic277x.u74	Minister, it is actually about something else as well. The questions relate to the use of soldiers on the streets, but they all have a different subject. According to press releases, Defense should soon be using, or is already using, logistics personnel and drivers to guard embassies and other potential targets of terrorists. The heavy savings within the Defense Department made sure that the beginning of this year was not always obvious to use these military forces. In order to provide the third battalion Para with sufficient ballistic protection, weapons and ammunition, equipment and budget had to be collected at different locations. In addition, soldiers also had to complete a shooting training with their new gun Five-seven from FN Herstal. Due to the lack of budget and ammunition, the military could not have trained with these guns before. Meanwhile, if the press release is correct, logistics personnel and drivers would also be employed, soldiers who would normally not be in the front row in conflicts or in surveillance orders. They are responsible for the supply and transport of combat forces and for communication systems and administration. The front line is the area for combat units and the units that provide combat support. These military personnel have not only received basic training but also additional training in the framework of surveillance orders. That's why I'm asking you the following questions. Have you discussed this with the trade unions? What were the points raised in this consultation? In view of the changed circumstances, have you held further consultations on this matter? Why is this decision now being made? The military have been on the street for ten months. Wasn't there a shortage of staff during the first ten months? Wasn't that supposed to be? What kind of training should logistics personnel take? How many hours does this training take? Do they only receive shooting training with the Five-Seven or do they receive additional training? How will the staff be selected? Can logistics personnel and drivers refuse to accept this assignment? How many additional staff will be deployed for this purpose? Is there still sufficient material available for the additional staff required to carry out surveillance orders? Are there enough weapons, ammunition and protective clothing available? The military have been deployed on the streets since the beginning of January. What total cost did this entail for the Defence Department, specifically for training and equipment? I know the other costs will be charged to the other department. That brings me to my second question. On 20 October an article was published in De Tijd in which Minister Jambon proposed his total shift, as it was described in the press, to the police. One of the Minister's proposals was to leave static building security assignments to the Department of Defense in the future. According to the Minister, the organisation and structure of the army would be more efficient for such tasks. The discussion on the deployment of military forces on the street was discussed earlier in this committee, including on 25 February 2015. Then you said: "If the task of static monitoring is to be carried out in the longer term, a number of legal and financial questions will have to be resolved. Legally it is not possible today, we are now working on the basis of a protocol, as long as it is necessary." Article 43 of the Integrated Police Act provides that a mayor may claim the military force when the resources of the police forces are insufficient to maintain public order. I find nothing in this legislation about using the army in static assignments. According to a previous reply, the Act of 20 May 1994 on the periods and status of the military in the reserve framework and on the use and readiness of the military force, the Law of 5 August 1992 on the Police Office and the Programme Act of 2 August 2002 would support the deployment of military forces. I do not find any clear support for military deployment in the above legislation. The protocol agreement provides for a monthly evaluation. Are legal adaptations already foreseen? What is your opinion on the Minister's proposal on military deployment for static surveillance? Such a shift in the contract obviously involves a major financial shift. How is this arranged? Defense is currently facing a shortage of personnel for the static surveillance orders. Earlier reports said that Defense would use logistics personnel and drivers for these assignments. Would these security missions become a permanent role of Defence in the future, is there sufficient staff? Are there sufficient resources for this? Are there sufficient resources and staff for the necessary training?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic277x.u75	Minister, your situation must not be easy and I sincerely sympathize. Indeed, this government is constantly having to find new ideas to fill the dramatic budget cuts imposed on several departments, including yours. While Defence will employ only 700 military personnel this year – a large number of whom are not enough to deal with the many challenges – we have learned from the press that you intend to use military personnel usually assigned to logistical tasks to monitor embassies and other potential targets of terrorism, due to the lack of sufficient military personnel from combat units. This decision is challenging because I am convinced that it reflects the lack of resources in your department. It seems that it has become impossible to carry out the tasks assigned to you by the government, which may ultimately affect the working and security conditions of the military or even the population. Therefore, Minister, can you explain in detail your plan to use military personnel assigned to logistical tasks for monitoring missions? What will their "profile" be? What would be the timetable for such a decision and have you heard the social partners on this issue? Why are you studying this project? How do you explain this de facto situation where too few soldiers with the right profile are available to carry out this mission, while the number of Belgian soldiers deployed abroad has never been as low as under this government? Is such a decision not paradoxical with the reduction in the number of commitments? What training will these members receive within this framework and what will their status be?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic277x.u76	Madam President, Minister, I think everyone has accepted the idea that military personnel should be deployed at level 4 of the threat. This measure is likely to reassure the population of a threat defined as serious and imminent. Although we do not yet know much about this threat, we need to trust our intelligence and security services on this definition. I would like to know more about the mechanisms that are in place when there is a level 4. How are you solicited? Who has defined the number of soldiers who will be positioned and the places that will be protected? How many military personnel are deployed? How many armoured vehicles are deployed? Why was it deemed necessary to deploy armoured vehicles in Brussels? What is their particular function? What is the coordination between these forces and the police? What are the rules assigned to members in the event of an attack? Since the threat persists, what are the rules of engagement in the event of an attack? What budgets will be allocated to Defence capabilities? I ask these questions because the boss of the Earth component, General Jean-Paul De Coninck, had indicated, on 27 October 2015, before the Paris attacks and the threats in Brussels, that he could hold for the time being as long as the deployment abroad remained weak, but that we were reaching the limits of the system. Through the extremely bleak budget cuts and a completely bleak defence budget, we are paying for the limited resources that this government gives your department. I understand that the deployment of the military here will also not allow for the deployment of military personnel on ground of operation and to contribute to solidarity in the field of international security, to which Belgium is accustomed to contributing. I would like to know what initiatives you will take immediately to overcome the serious problems your department has been experiencing for a long time, but particularly under this government, in terms of resources. Of the 400 million, how much will be allocated to your department?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic277x.u77	Madam President, I would like to make a small point at the outset to those who are blackening the Defence situation. We agree that, for the last ten to fifteen years, when there have been budget cuts, it has always been in the Defence that we have come to undermine in the first place. Minister, we have often had an opportunity to discuss this; I remain, firmly with you, a fervent defendant to give the Defence all the means necessary to fulfil its duties, which, as we know, with the new events, are changing and may need to be reviewed and adapted. Minister, what is the cost of additional deployments for the current year as well as for those that are still in progress? How can the military's priority missions possibly be adjusted and with what means?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic277x.u78	Mr Dallemagne, you have started freewheeling and now I am not quite sure whether you have asked all the questions you wanted to ask.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic277x.u79	Madam President, it is important to have a debate and I will reply to Mrs Jadin just now so that she does not prolong the debate. And let the minister answer us. Minister, the militias are patrolling and are no longer in static positions. What instructions are given to them? What perimeter?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic277x.u80	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, as far as consultation with the trade unions is concerned, I would first of all like to refer to my reply given on 25 February 2015. I said at that time that consultation with the trade unions should primarily be carried out by the staff themselves, whatever the CHOD did last Sunday morning during a consultation with the unions, on which they were very satisfied. One union proves today, and yesterday in Le Soir, why they still have no more to say about the moment when one goes into surgery. Questions were asked about the number, what, where, who and the rules of engagement. I refer to the answers I have already given in committee. I do not believe and I persist in saying that it is not appropriate to make the rules of engagement public. What can they do? How many are there? I can reassure you: every soldier on the street is well trained, well trained, well equipped. He knows what he can or cannot do and he can do whatever is necessary to do his job properly. On this subject, I want to be very clear! I consider the opportunity that is being considered to deploy people from the logistics chain. Ladies and gentlemen, you know that every military man, as long as he is a military man, is ready, through his training and his statute, to be deployed in an operation theatre. If necessary, he will receive additional training where necessary. They can be about shooting with a gun, shooting with an FNC or any other weapon, about the rules or commitment, about proportionality in the stakes and so on. They're trained as they should be. There are no plans to hire logistics personnel in support of the police for monitoring tasks in 2015. When General De Coninck says this will be a problem, it is related to his plans for training and training in military deployment outside the country. Perhaps the agenda will have to be changed here and there in order to be able to do all the training as planned. However, it is true that the staff is in the process of developing a study to examine the terms of engagement of this type of personnel for 2016, if necessary, but no decision has yet been taken. The possible recruitment of logistics personnel would aim to create an additional reserve of personnel assigned to such operations, as is the case in countries such as France. This would increase our flexibility and responsiveness, as well as maintain the planned training activities for combat units and thus maintain their level of operationality for external interventions. Therefore, any military fit for operations, which has had the necessary trainings and trainings, can be used in the operation-Homeland. The number of military personnel engaged in support of the integrated police is determined by the Council of Ministers and will be adjusted if necessary. Thus, since last week, this number has been increased. Exact figures are not provided for safety reasons, nor is the place where they are deployed. The current detachments have all the means to prepare themselves and carry out their mission, without compromising their own security and those of the people around them. This is also a specific task I have given to the staff: no one is deployed unless he is equipped for his task. The legal basis for this commitment remains the same, as I said earlier. I refer you to my replies given in committee on 25 February 2015. You can find these in document No. 54 COM 096, pp. 6 to 9. I also refer to the committee meeting of 18 March 2015, COM 119, and to Bulletin No. 54 0028, pages 258 and 259. Many discussions, reports and translations have thus already preceded these questions. There is no change to the stakes. Defence support to the integrated police is a temporary measure, as mentioned above. On the basis of the advice of the Strategic Committee and the Coordination Committee on Intelligence and Security, the Council of Ministers has repeatedly decided to extend the deployment of military forces on the ground. As, following the tragic events in Paris, the overall level of threat for Belgium was also brought to 3 and for the Brussels-Capital Region to 4, Defence remains available as long as the situation so requires. At present, the legal and financial modalities still apply as previously defined and explained. In other words, they are in category 2. These financial aspects are reflected in Article 4 of the Memorandum of Understanding on Defence Support to the Integrated Police Service. Expenditures are charged against variable appropriations that are funded by revenues from invoices sent to the federal police. That's obvious, too. The basis for the deployment is the protocol signed and approved by the Council of Ministers, the command is there with the integrated police. At the financial level, I can be more concrete. For the period from 17 January to 20 December 2015, the cost of deploying military personnel to the streets is estimated at a total amount of 17,955,000 euros, of which 15,452,000 euros are paid by the Federal Police, the remainder by the Defence. The three invoices for the period from January 17 to August 31 of this year have been paid – Mr Pirlot, this is an answer to your question of September 1. On 10 October 2015, a new invoice covering the period from 1 September to 31 October for an amount of €1,902,875 was transmitted to the Federal Police. For security reasons, it is impossible to disclose the security arrangements that have been put in place as a result of the increased level of threat. Therefore, I cannot specify the number, missions or locations of deployment. The rules of engagement have not been adapted. Coordination with both federal and local police is carried out through different processes. At the operational level, there is a direct link between the Defence Operations Centre and the operational permanence of the Directorate of Administrative Police Operations. At the tactical level, liaison officers have been deployed to federal and local police. Finally, the communication between the security services (ACOS-IS, State Security and OCAM) takes place as usual but at a much faster pace. As an answer to the supplementary questions, I can tell you that in terms of weapons and ammunition, there is no problem. As for the bulletproof vests for which a problem could have arisen, we have already found a solution. Mr Top, there are issues in the press which relate to Mr Jambon's possible plan, but they are premature in that respect. As always, the press often expects, expects and thinks things that are not always entirely in line with the real outlook. The fact is that it is indeed thought of a way to make it more bearable for the police to carry out static tasks and other solutions for which police officers were previously employed. That doesn't mean they're gonna have to do it permanently. According to the protocol, from level 3 onwards, defense can be used. Mr Dallemagne, there is talk in the media and by unions about patrols, but you say that this is not a static task. What’s in a name ? The fact is that in a number of places we have moved from standing for a certain building to clusters of spaces that are guarded. Let me give you the example of the Prime Minister's residence, the Lambermont, and the American Embassy: this is a cluster that is guarded by the same people and it may happen that these people change places. Is that a patrol? No, I don't think that's a patrol, in the sense that a patrol goes around and checks identity, which our soldiers don't do. Our military have no direct contact with people. However, it may happen that soldiers are seen walking instead of standing still, I confirm that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic277x.u81	Madam Chair, I thank the minister for answering questions that I did not ask. On the other hand, there is one question I asked, to which he did not answer: what of the 400 million? Will there be a part of your department?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic277x.u82	This subject needs to be discussed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic277x.u83	That's what I thought! In reply to Ms Jadin, I understood that her question was an opportunity to justify the government's policy. I would remind you, however, that the amount of the dark cuts announced is EUR 2 billion. This has never been the case before. I would also point out that Mr Vandeput's predecessor was Mr Vandeput. De Crem, who is still part of the current government. I believe that emergency measures, in exceptional circumstances, are necessary. But there is also a need for long-term structural reforms. This will necessarily involve a budgetary effort. The problem is at the level of the defence budget.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic277x.u84	Do you plead for an increase in the military budget? I'd like to hear you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic277x.u85	I refer you to an answer I made in this committee a few months ago.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic277x.u86	Minister, you will answer a question that we may be asking later. We are not going to call for an increase in the budget here today. It is a reflection, additional to what Mr Pirlot has said. In the current legislature, the budget is still falling. By 2019 they may have almost nothing left to build up. Perhaps then the foundations will no longer be able to build a new and efficient defence. The discussion on the use of military or police forces in the future should be conducted earlier with the Minister of the Interior. I'll take his statements as truth. I assume he will make this as a proposal. I am satisfied with the answer that every military is well trained and equipped. That is reassuring, because that was one of the major concerns. This can still be assured today, with the savings and great commitment of the last ten months, and certainly of the last week. I hope, together with you, that the situation can stabilise again, that we no longer have to put so many soldiers on the streets and that this matter can be resolved.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic277x.u87	Madam Chair, I would like to thank you for responding to my colleague, Ms Jadin, who wanted to support the government. That said, reality is what it is. The figures are severe. There has never been such a brutal and dark cut in the defence budget. This situation is unprecedented. We have the latest figures from the government. Despite the budgetary adjustments, the 2015 liquidation budgets will be reduced by EUR 121 million, i.e. by 5%. This is totally irresponsible in view of the current context. Like you, the staff and the unions have also made this known. But the problem is that you never get what you're asking for, which I don't understand. Yet you are one of the important ministers of this government. You hold a regal function and yet you never get what you ask for. I don't know how you're doing it, but it's starting to be extremely worrying. Indeed, we are paying for the consequences in terms of the capacity for international solidarity and national protection. Having said that, I fully agree with you when you say that information should not be disclosed. On the other hand, I was a little surprised to hear that the total number of military personnel could not be known. All countries publish the corresponding figure. This is particularly the case in France. This is the first time in Belgium's history that, in the context of a military operation, the number of military personnel is not communicated to the general public. But they're not secret agents. We see them. We could have fun counting them on the streets. I do not understand very well why the information is, in this case, considered classified. In my opinion, it would be better to announce the number. The latter is, moreover, partially announced since there is talk of a reinforcement of 500 people. Talking about reinforcement doesn't make any sense, if we don't know the starting number. Or we don't give any numbers at any time – which I don't understand – or we communicate all the numbers. Usually, the number of soldiers deployed on our streets has always been communicated, regardless of the military operation. It would be important, in my view, to reconsider the matter. We don't harm anyone by giving this information.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic277x.u88	Minister, thank you for your answers. We can think about the opportunity to clearly explain the deployment of our military. It is an explanation that holds the road, I take note of it. As far as the budget is concerned, I mean that the costs are distributed among the various departments concerned by all these complementary security measures. I am always pleasantly surprised by the love that some discover for the army, certainly from the benches of the opposition. I was able to see this in my area, where it is really a question of maintaining very effective battalions and who are involved in the various security measures. Minister, I regret this and I am here with you to review the financial means that would enable you to meet certain international obligations, but also to manage all the new tasks required, which will still be requested in the future. Unfortunately, the first analyses show that we have not emerged from this more precise threat in our country, a threat that we have known for a year and a half. I fear that we will still have to discuss the appropriate security measures in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic277x.u89	Minister, at the end of September you and your fellow Members Jan Jambon and Theo Francken went to Algeria, Tunisia and Morocco. You yourself were said to be present on the work visit because the army should focus more on this region in the future. You quoted the importance of Limburg as follows: North Africa is important for our security, so we are going to focus more on this. This informal visit to Algeria is a start and part of our strategic plan. We see that, after the Arab Spring, the Maghreb, without talking properly, remains fairly stable. It is in our own interest to keep these regimes stable. They're a buffer between us and the real threat. And no, this does not mean that we are giving up Congo, but that we are reorienting ourselves. I am pleased that you say that this visit is part of the strategic plan. So we can still assume that this plan will ever come. North Africa should act as a buffer between Europe and the potentially explosive region south of Algeria, Morocco and Tunisia, where large terrorist groups are present. The idea is to help in the longer term mainly with training and training. What exactly do you mean by "reorienting"? How do you see this in concrete terms? Are plans made, for example, to send troops or personnel for training and training? Have any agreements been made on this? Are troops or parts of them withdrawn? How many soldiers are still in other African countries and where? What changes are being made and what reductions will this entail? What period are we talking about here? Can you provide information on terrorist groups south of the region? Are their influences noticeable in the countries you visited there? You spoke to the Ministers of Defense. Do they feel this concrete threat?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic277x.u90	Mr Top, cynicism does not suit you, but it is good. In any case, part of the strategic plan has already been approved. It contained an environmental and safety analysis that was approved. On that basis, I will continue to prepare and develop a policy. You may be surprised that there is some coherence in what I try to do as Minister of Defense. There will therefore be a gradual shift of emphasis from our geostrategic focus on the African continent of Central Africa to North Africa and the Sahel region, where most threats to our own security are to be found today. The threat is based, on the one hand, on jihadist movements such as Daesh, Al Nusra and Boko Haram. On the other hand, these countries are also faced with the return of foreign fighters from the areas of conflict in the Middle East and Libya. This calls for greater attention to be paid to developments in this region and a particular willingness to offer more opportunities in support and building local capacities at the request of local authorities. This concerns strategic dialogue, exchange of experience, training of managers, work visits, training and common exercises. This shift in emphasis will not prevent us from continuing to pay due attention to our relations with the other African countries in order to continue the continuity of our bilateral support. The presence of our people in other African countries can be found in different answers to different questions. I won't list. At the time that this answer was prepared, last week your friend is now in Gabon with a lot of others, who are not included in it, a total of 158 Belgian soldiers were in African territory, of which 98 in Mali, 10 in Burundi, 48 in the RDC and 2 in Chad. We have visited, among other things, various counter-terrorism centres and talked to the people on the ground. There is a great deal of work going on in those three countries to contain the terrorist threat. Unfortunately, however, it was not possible to prevent Tunis from being alarmed yesterday by an attack on the presidential guard. A personal appreciation to Tunisia is the following. It's admirable what these people are doing today. They are preparing for the first local elections. I only hope that the rather left-wing party around the President will be able to stand in the local elections, because if that were not the case, I fear that the efforts that we are making there and which they have made will come under serious pressure.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic277x.u91	Minister, thank you, a little cynical, for your sympathy for the rather left-wing government in Tunisia. If she's doing a good job, why not? That has nothing to do with the left or the right, but with a good commitment for a country and its fellow countrymen. In any case, I am pleased to hear you say that the necessary attention will be maintained for the other African countries with which we have historical links, but also for the whole of that region. I am convinced that cooperation with these countries is structural, that not only a courtesy visit has now been made, but that there will also be structural consultations, with dialogue and exchange of information and the possible training of people in the various regions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic277x.u92	Debates of the European Parliament Question No 65, by Mr Senesael 6769 by Mrs Grovonius.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic277x.u93	Madam President, Minister, the government has decided to split into two separate projects the previously unique construction project in Casteau for the NATO Communications and Information Agency (NCIA) and for the new SHAPE headquarters. In doing so, you went back to a decision taken by the previous government in October 2013 and confirmed in April 2014. The Council of Ministers on 17 July justified this change by the need to ensure that these facilities were made available as quickly as possible. The construction of the new SHAPE HQ - managed by Belgium but financed by all member countries - could take two years of delay (2021 instead of 2019). Splitting the two projects would therefore make it possible to move faster on the NCIA project alone, now scheduled for 2019 rather than 2017. It is indeed urgent to move forward in the construction of this project, since it was Belgium itself that proposed to NCIA to build a building in Casteau for 2017. This is the way to further anchor this institution at home and not in the Netherlands, where it also has facilities, and thus increase its staff in Casteau from 250 to 700 people. In short, this issue is important and delicate for Belgium's image, if further delays were to occur. Minister, can you confirm this information? Is the split of the original project into two separate projects justified in relation to our objectives? What about the status of these two projects? How do you explain the delays? Would the Belgian State be liable if further delays were to occur? If we do not seem to be able to respect the timing for the NCIA building, could it be relocated elsewhere in Europe? Finally, since the financing of the NCIA project is the responsibility of Belgium, can you give me a detailed account of the budget allocated to it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic277x.u94	Minister, on 25 April 2014, the Council of Ministers confirmed the study and implementation of a new headquarters for SHAPE, the central command center of NATO military forces and a new building for NCIA, the NATO Communications and Information Agency. It was an architectural unit in the current home of SHAPE, Casteau near Bergen. The file was entrusted to the Prime Minister. DOD didn't play an active role in the project. The construction of the new headquarters for SHAPE is funded by NATO. There are no additional costs for us as a host country. The cost of the new construction for the NCIA will be borne by our country. These amounts are estimated at EUR 40 to even EUR 100 million. They were not yet budgeted at the beginning of this year, except for the EUR 596 000 for study and coordination activities. The project would have been delayed by now. In July 2015, the Council of Ministers therefore decided to re-divide the project into two separate projects. The management and follow-up of both projects were now transferred to the Ministry of Defence. Can you explain more about the delays in the projects? When was the completion of the SHAPE building and the NCIA building originally planned? How many months or years of delay has there been? What are the causes of the delay and what are the concrete consequences? Can you confirm that the project was re-divided in order to reduce the delay? Are there any other reasons? Why were two separate projects transferred to the Defense Department? Can you give us an update on the NCIA project? Were the costs for the NCIA building budgeted by now? If so, at which department and at what post? If not, why not? What stage is the project currently in? What's the latest estimate of the cost of the NCIA building? SHAPE indicated at the beginning of this year that there are problems with the subsurface at the planned location. Will the NCIA building be able to be scheduled at this location or should the building be moved to another location? When do we plan the start of the works?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic277x.u95	Mr Dallemagne, the decision taken by the Council of Ministers on 17 July to split the single project in no way alters the desire to seek maximum synergies between the NATO Communications and Information Agency (NCIA) and SHAPE, in accordance with the will expressed by the 28 nations of the Alliance. Coherence and efficiency remain on the agenda in these two projects currently being conducted in parallel. The Di Rupo government has formally accepted responsibility for the SHAPE project as part of the current procedures for NATO security investment programmes. It is therefore up to Belgium to implement this project. On 17 July 2015, the Council of Ministers also decided to transfer the two separate projects to Defence, mainly on the basis of the know-how at its disposal in such large international projects. The completion of the SHAPE building was originally planned for the end of 2019. The NCIA building was planned for the end of 2017. The delay is currently 24 months. The reason for the delay lies mainly in the difficulty for SHAPE to formulate the needs clearly and precisely. This has prompted Belgium to split into two separate projects, one for the NCIA and one for SHAPE, which was originally intended as a building for both facilities. Defence has provided a project management team, a PMT, to manage both projects. The case of the need expression of the NCIA should be completed by the end of this year. The planning provides for the start of works for the benefit of the NCIA at the end of 2017. The studies carried out so far by the Defence Department confirm the existing estimate. The budget for the NCIA project is currently set at €83.2 million, an amount to be indexed in 2015. Defence will act as the centre of contracts on behalf of and on behalf of the Prime Minister's Chancellery, in accordance with the Public Procurement Act of 15 June 2006 and certain works, supplies and services contracts. The decision taken by the Council of Ministers on 17 July does not alter the choice of the Casteau site for the installation of the Nato Communications and Information Agency's engine room, which was endorsed in September 2013 by the North Atlantic Council (NAC), where the senior representatives of the twenty-eight member nations sit. The problems raised by SHAPE at the beginning of this year are well known. Casteau, where SHAPE has been housed since 1967, is a busy built campus with a lot of dynamism in the subsurface. Our PMT can control this. So the location of the NCIA is not questioned either. In conclusion, it is necessary to be very clear about the responsibilities in this matter. The file belongs to the Prime Minister's Chancellery. There were decisions and choices by the Di Rupo government that presented difficulties. The Prime Minister asked for an assessment of the situation. Defence has special expertise and experience in the NATO building and has been asked to manage the Chancellery project. There is no great impact on the defence budget, but it is clear that someone will have to pay for what the Di Rupo government promised.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic277x.u96	Minister, your last sentence is a little enigmatic. Thank you for your explanation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic277x.u97	Minister, I suspect that every minister will inherit some files that he or she would rather not have inherited. I believe that NCIA was a gift from the PS, a gift from Mr Di Rupo, which you were not very happy about.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic277x.u98	This is an amazing reflection on the part of a committee chair.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic277x.u99	Surely I can replicate after my question, Mr Dallemagne? I have looked at the history of the dossier and it is striking how much haste and how much zeal the previous government, the PS government, wanted to rush through that file quickly at the end of the previous legislature. That made her a complete mess of things. Mr. Secretary, I understand you had no choice. DOD's trying to fix this, and they're gonna do it. For me, however, it remains extremely difficult for a dossier such as the NCIA to take precedence over other defence infrastructure projects and the strategic plan. Mr Minister, I was not quite clear on one point. The file is now with the Prime Minister's Chancery. Is it going to be paid by the interdepartmental commission, or am I wrong?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic277x.u100	I can only tell you that it is not foreseen in my budget.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic277x.u101	In any case, it remains a very obscure PS file from the previous legislature. It continues to raise questions about how this dossier has been dealt with in the past and about the transparency of procedures. I can only hope that this will not be a hangover and that important infrastructure for the core tasks of Defence will not be compromised.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic277x.u102	Madam President, I note that those Members who have questions are present. I'm willing to finish the list.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic277x.u103	Minister, I am prepared to turn five questions into written questions if we address those that relate to the current situation, namely the ongoing operations in Syria from the aircraft carrier, which are my last two questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic277x.u104	I agree, as long as we take a short break. Madam President, I do not know what time the Chamber will be available until. My schedule's still open.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic277x.u105	Until 14:00, this room is still open. There is therefore a proposal from Mr Dallemagne to convert his questions Nos 7061, 7062, 7129, 7132 and 7133 into written questions. That proposal has been accepted. We'll take a short break.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic277x.u106	Madam Chair, may I ask my last questions?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic277x.u107	Of course. That's not a problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic277x.u108	Mr Dallemagne put his oral questions in written questions. Questions Nos 7601, 7062, 7129, 7132, 7133 and 7649. The only question he would like to ask is Question No. 7648.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic277x.u109	Madam President, Minister, thank you for reversing the order of business on this topical issue. Indeed, the aircraft carrier Charles de Gaulle took action on the night of November 23-24, 2015. What information do you have about this operation? What were the objectives? In my view, we are part of an offensive mission. This is also how the French Minister of Defence understands him in his interview in yesterday's newspaper Le Monde. It's about an aeronautics group. It is both the aircraft carrier and several accompanying buildings that are operational and the objective is "to destroy" the Islamic State group overall. It is not a question of weakening it, but of destroying it in Iraq and Syria. We are therefore well engaged in an offensive operation in Iraq and Syria in an air group that forms a whole. It is important that we do not lose sight of the qualification of the operations we carry out with other nations, in particular France and Germany, and that we be able to carry out this operation in all its components. Minister, confirm that this is indeed an offensive aircraft group and not a defensive mission. We're here in a very offensive mechanism. It is a matter of attacking the Islamic State group in Iraq and Syria. We are therefore in a very new strategic and political framework for us. As you know, I am not opposed to it, but we have to assume it. It is no use to hide, to hide reality. The French make this clear. We are committed and in solidarity with them in this operation. We are doing well, but I think it is important that we assume it politically and strategically. Finally, I would like details of the operations in progress and those that will succeed them.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic277x.u110	Mr Dallemagne, I very much appreciate your gesture. Excuse me, but my answer will be brief. Leopold I escorts the aircraft carrier as a protection vessel and therefore does not participate actively in French air strikes. It is up to France to communicate about the targets targeted since the Charles de Gaulle and the continuation of the operational programme of the aircraft group. For further explanation of the situation in Syria, I refer you to the Operations Monitoring Committee, which is being held in camera. Nevertheless, I can tell you that last week the United Nations adopted a resolution authorizing France to take, beyond its self-defence action, all the necessary measures within the coalition.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic277x.u111	Minister, your semantics have evolved somewhat, as we have moved from a defensive operation to a clearly offensive protection operation. Our contribution is to protect this aircraft carrier. You are right to say that all the legal bases are in place. This Security Council resolution will also have to be discussed with the Minister for Foreign Affairs. We must fulfil our role, however modest it may be, even if we have not participated in strikes against the Islamic State group. It is important that we assume this legal, political and military framework to which we must contribute through proposals.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic277x.u112	Minister, on 5 November 2015, a summary of various scenarios for the reform of our army in the press appeared. They were described in De Standaard and Het Belang van Limburg, among others. The scenarios range from a maximum plan to an extinct scenario. With the exception of the latter scenario, certain investments are reflected in each scenario. Military intelligence and Special Forces are being strengthened. Money will be released for drones, satellite information and for offensive and defensive cyber capabilities, for new fighter planes and for an additional frigate for the Navy. The most expensive scenario is a budget of 1.5 % of gross domestic product. The cheapest scenario, excluding the extinguishing scenario, amounts to 1.1 % of gross domestic product. I would like to have an answer to the following questions. Mr Minister, can you explain the five scenarios? If so, where and when? What is the current status of the dossier? Can we expect the approved plan this year? Finally, is the purchase of rather expensive equipment, such as fighter aircraft, not called into question in any scenario?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic277x.u113	Madam President, Minister, contrary to a nameless imbecility that I read in the press, the PS is not an Islamic-socialist party. I will not argue on this point. You can't ask a sparrow to have the intelligence of an eagle! Having said that, the PS supports and will continue to support our country's participation in the international coalition against Daesh and its intervention with the French in a UN and European context, with the involvement of our assembly. As our group leader recently recalled in plenary, we will support efforts, including budgetary efforts, for National Defence and the provision of means to combat terrorism, in a comprehensive and measured United Nations approach. The current situation shows that the severe dark cuts, almost 1.5 billion euros accumulated within your department, were not a good political choice. Already a year ago, I was doing this analysis on the occasion of the discussion of your budget. As I referred to in my previous question, the Prime Minister announced the exceptional release of €400 million for security. I understand that this measure is still under negotiation. In any case, for us, these must be new means and so much worse if this is to increase the deficit all the more! Mr Minister, will recent events and the increase in the level of alert in our country and the need to fight, as part of a comprehensive approach, against Daesh and terrorism in general lead the government to increase your department's budget, putting a partial end to the dark cuts that have been imposed? What additional practical measures both in terms of material and human resources do you intend to put in place within this framework? If part of the 400 million is actually released, will it have any impact on your future strategic plan? I thank you already for your answers, which, I am sure, will be completely transparent to avoid the clair-obscurity that has sometimes reigned.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic277x.u114	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, recent events in Paris and Brussels once again demonstrate the importance of internal and external security for all Belgian and European citizens. This reinforces the government's determination to draft a strategic plan for Belgian Defence that will address the threats to our society. As I told you at the October 28, 2015 session, the government is working hard to finalize this plan and several scenarios are on the table. Today, it is not appropriate to discuss the content, capacity and financial implementation of those scenarios. The Chamber will be informed in due course of a strategic plan for the Belgian Defence adopted by the government. The 2016 Operations Plan continues to evolve and will be presented to the Council of Ministers in the first half of December. As far as the exceptional security budget is concerned, its distribution is not yet determined. Since these are means for 2016, it is not possible to use them until 1 January. As for the training of defence units, it always takes place on the ground in conditions close to reality. Defence continues to train its staff at best, taking into account available budgets.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic277x.u115	Mr Minister, if I understand correctly, the decision will be submitted to the Chamber 'too soon'. The expression "in due course" replaces "within six months" from last year's policy statement. Earlier, you spoke of "before the Easter holiday" and "before the holiday." Now it's gonna be "infinity."
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic277x.u116	Mr Top, if you quote from the policy statement, you must do so correctly. I quote: 'The Minister will propose a strategic plan to the Council of Ministers...'
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic277x.u117	What are you doing with a plan that wasn't approved?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic277x.u118	"...to the Council of Ministers, who will have to approve this within six months." I have been answering all these questions since June, and I have been answering them since June. I have been asked to work out different scenarios. I did. Today, the scenarios are on the table. There are some security issues in this country right now that make it not so easy to bring together the right people to discuss them. Let me be clear, for me too, and for this government, it is important to complete this dossier as quickly as possible and to come forward with a result. The Prime Minister confirmed this when he visited the Leopold I in Crete. Last week, the Prime Minister reaffirmed this during the debate on the threat of terrorism in plenary.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic277x.u119	Madam President, I hope that I will have the floor and may speak. Mr. Secretary, I believe you still believe in Saint Nicholas. It's almost the time of Santa Claus, and I believe you still believe in it. You say that you have put forward scenarios and that your work is done; I find that embarrassing. This means that you do not support these scenarios to defend them, so that you can make sure that a choice is made by the government. You are once again hiding behind the precarious facts that are currently taking place in our country. Those facts date from two weeks ago. Your promise and the coalition agreement date from over a year ago. So far, no decision has been taken on the different scenarios. Finally, you say that you will refer the decision "to the appropriate time" to the Chamber. I understand from this that you will only present the decision. What the press has heard is much more than what you want to submit to the Members of Parliament. I would therefore like to thank you for the trust you have given us.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic277x.u120	Minister, thank you for your perfectly clear response to the fact that there is nothing clear in the government. I take note of that. As pleasure arises from waiting, I look forward to the coming weeks to live my first parliamentary orgasm to discover your strategic plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic277x.u121	Questions Nos 7307 and 7460 by Mrs Fernandez Fernandez and Mr Dallemagne are postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic277x.u122	Minister, on Monday, October 26, an individual attacked the military barracks in Flawinne, trying to force the entrance with his car and threatening the safety of the soldiers present there. Thanks to the cold-blooded and professional nature of the military and law enforcement forces, which I would particularly like to welcome here, the attempt at intrusion was repelled and its perpetrator was quickly arrested. Fortunately, no one was injured in this incident. Nevertheless, this very isolated event raises the question of the security of our barracks, in particular those in which weapons and ammunition are stored. Given the context of the terrorist threat to our society, vigilance must be exercised. Minister, as a result of these events, the consequences of which could have been far more serious, what lessons can you draw from the current security arrangements? In keeping with the confidentiality requirements of our national security, of which we are aware, could you tell us whether this attempt to attack has brought to light potential improvements in the security of our barracks?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic277x.u123	Mr Calomne, first of all, I would like to point out that the incident in Flawinne was not of a terrorist nature, but rather an individual act on the part of an unbalanced person. Essentially, the on-call staff acted with complacency and professionalism. The assailant's vehicle was ultimately arrested and, if his driver could escape, he was promptly apprehended by the police. I draw two lessons from this: the first is that the guarding of our facilities is carried out by well-trained and well-trained personnel; the second concerns the need to continually adapt the security features and rules to the level of threat and the particular context at each facility. In the current context, these two points seem to me to be of particular importance. The assessment must remain permanent and the security arrangements must be adapted to the level of threats and the context.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic277x.u124	Thank you for your answers, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic277x.u125	We come to Mr Top's last question unless you wish to turn it into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic277x.u126	If I receive the written reply immediately.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic277x.u127	The answer will be delivered during the afternoon.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic277x.u128	Agreed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic277x.u129	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Alain Top's 7561 will be converted into a written question.
