ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, once it is not customary, I would like to address each of you following what we have just experienced in the Conference of Presidents. The latter was the framework for a debate on the admissibility, and therefore the dissemination, of a motion for a resolution which I have the honour of drafting with my colleague Kristof Calvo. It has now been about a month since we tabled on the President's desk the text of our motion for a resolution. For the first time in the history of the House, the President, reinforced by a veto by our colleague Ducrame, is about to reject the dissemination and printing of a motion for a resolution. Colleagues, never before, a text tabled by a Member of Parliament had, in the final analysis, been refused printing and dissemination. We are facing a very serious precedent! That is why I wanted to take the members of the assembly live. As you know, in the Conference of Presidents, consensus is needed in order to move forward. Mr. Ducrame's veto prevents us from doing so. That is why, as part of the organization of our work, I will make a request to our President. However, I would first like to say a word on the substance. It is not a question of whether we are for or against nuclear power, not of judging the previous government to have worked with a convention or not, not of whether the former or the present ministers are responsible for anything. It is simply a question of a parliamentarian's ability to express an opinion in the context of a motion for a resolution. It's never before seen! Never, until now, Mr. Speaker, has a Speaker of the House ever, at this stage, gone so far as to completely refuse the impression. There were precedents where the president first asked himself questions. The Conference of Presidents seized of these four situations has each time decided to make public the texts, including those of the Vlaams Belang, including those of Van Rossem, including other nationalist proposals. The Conference of Presidents has never refused any admissibility. Of course, it is different to do the political debate, whether the proposal is taken into account, whether it is accepted or not. It's something else. But at no time did we avoid, we prevented the political debate. Today, Kristof Calvo and I, and behind us our group, are unable to bring a debate on the consideration of a fundamental issue in plenary. But whatever this issue is, tomorrow your own freedom of action is threatened! And that is what we wanted to grasp you individually but also collectively. If tomorrow we refuse a resolution to the Socialist Party because it would like with the Sp.a to mention social security, what will you do, Mr. President? Because there's the word "confidential," because you don't like something, you won't, too? Is there no more debate? If, after tomorrow, our colleagues at the N-VA want to make some progress in the institutional landscape, could another president refuse it too? We would no longer even have the opportunity to have a political debate here on taking account of it. What is happening, Mr. President, is an abuse of power. What's going on is very serious. I ask that you, as President, accept that we can fully inform our colleagues of the situation and of our discussions. We exchanged letters and arguments, including from a legal point of view. I have also tabled a legal note in the Conference of Presidents. I propose that you pass it on to all the colleagues who, perhaps taken a little cold, do not know the ins and outs of this debate. I also propose that tomorrow you hold a debate on the situation in which we find ourselves, in other words, the fact that Article 58 of the Constitution is no longer respected. Parliamentarians are faced with the impossibility of proposing a text to parliament, the cradle of democracy!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u3	Mr President, I would like to support my colleague. There is much talk about the need to live in a democracy. Among its constituent elements are the separation of powers, the independence of the judiciary, freedom of the press and also the control of the executive by the parliament. In this regard, article 58 of the Constitution is the very heart of democracy, since by the very fact that we, as parliamentarians, have the opportunity to say everything and write everything without, for that reason, facing prosecution – especially judicial proceedings. Is this power absolute? We talked about it in the Conference of Presidents. Some believe that it may be limited, for example, in the name of the best interests of the State – for example, when the State has entered into a contract with a confidentiality clause. The Court of Cassation replied that this was not the case. This right must be absolute, because it is the very essence of democracy. We talked about it and talked about it again. Thanks to you, Mr. President, we tried to see what was happening. I refer to the review of the Tihange Convention, during which we tried to check whether parliamentary control was absolute. Was there a confidentiality clause? Each group was able to find that this agreement, which is known to the general public, did not include any. In other words, we are in the pure and simple application of article 58 of the Constitution. Mr President, we are not discussing here whether or not the Ecolo-Groen Group is doing well to table a resolution in this Parliament or to see if we agree on nuclear energy. The question is not there, but whether or not we agree that Article 58 of the Constitution can be respected and, therefore, that parliamentary control should make it possible to designate this democracy as a true democracy. I am struck by the fact that, at the Conference of Presidents, at the request of a single group, we did not have the opportunity to print the text to which our colleague, Mr Nollet, referred. Mr President, I am struck by the fact that, in view of this lack of unanimity, you have taken on the responsibility of prohibiting the printing of a text that does not contain any confidentiality clause. Given the absence of legal arguments, what you did is arbitrary. And arbitrariness, when it touches the foundation of democracy, is dangerous. In this context, I welcome the fact that my colleague has taken the matter to the plenary and I support it in order that Parliament will be seized of the matter outside the Conference of Presidents and that we can, here and now, whatever our political affiliation, majority or opposition, defend our democracy against arbitrariness.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am sorry to say that we are going through history today. (Rumbling) You may find that ridiculous, but actually it's not funny. For the first time, the President of the Chamber will decide that a resolution should not be considered. It has indeed happened, but for very different reasons, because it was not in accordance with the Constitution. My fellow Members have already made this very clear. This is a political decision and not a legal one. The Tihange 1 convention in question does not contain a confidentiality clause. The arguments we have heard over and over again in the Conference of Presidents are not legal arguments but political ones. We cannot accept this as parliamentary groups from the majority and the opposition. We must fight this. I hope you will do the same and very consciously. I can only support my colleague's question. Everything that has been discussed in the Conference must be made clear in this plenary. This morning the resolution was not accepted at the request of a colleague and by the extension of a political group. We have to ask ourselves why. You will forgive me if I am going to talk about the content here. Let's call a cat a cat. Why should this not be announced at the request of the company Electrabel? Why is the government, and certainly one of its parties, once again protecting this monopoly position, not only with the extension of Objective 1 and Objective 2, but also now refusing to have this resolution printed? Ladies and gentlemen, this is about content, but also about our parliamentary work in the context of enlargement. If we accept this, it will set a precedent for the future. You will also find that this precedent is not the right solution, nor is it the way we have built our democracy and how we work here in this House. I repeat, this has never happened before. The history that is being written today is a parliament like ours unworthy. Mr President, I therefore urge you to safeguard our parliamentary democracy and to respond to the request made by our fellow Members for this resolution to be published.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u5	Mr President, I would like to speak in full support of my colleagues' proposal, Mr President. Nollet and Calvo, to have full transparency on this issue because it is elementary. And we cannot help but think that, in the context of this very sensitive debate about the monopolistic position on an area as important as energy production, there is really a total lack – I say quite completely – of transparency. I cannot accept that today multinationals, like GDF SUEZ and EDF, intimidate this Parliament. We have the right here to say and write what we want. Today, in accepting this blackmail, and I am addressing the parliamentarians of the majority, especially the MR, you are opening a Pandora's box that will increasingly diminish the power of this already reduced parliament, given that we have very few economic and energy levers in hand. Mr President, I am addressing you. We are not aware of all the debates that take place at the meetings of the Conference of Presidents. You know how much we regret it. We therefore want to take this opportunity to ask for the publicity of all the debates you have had so that we can give a clear opinion on the substantive or non-substantial arguments put forward by the MR Group to prohibit this debate. On the other hand, I want to invoke your sense of responsibility for defending the parliamentary institution here today. I ask you to accede to the request of the colleagues in Groen and Ecolo for the publication of this resolution in order to be able to maintain an open and transparent debate on such important issues as security and energy production in our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u6	Mr Nollet, first of all, congratulations for the staging and for your tragic gifts! I don't think the term is exaggerated, given your lyrical flights at the beginning of the session. Mr President, the question is not new. We have been dealing with them for more than two months. In the Conference of Presidents, you have submitted your proposal that this text should be inadmissible for reasons which have nothing to do with the freedom of speech or with the freedom of expression of parliamentarians, but which is rather related to the responsibility to be borne by the consequences of its actions. Mrs. Onkelinx, you were talking about the control of the executive. Mr Di Rupo, who is a signatory to this convention, did know that it was confidential, like all of you - at least one parliamentarian per group. I consulted the agreement and found that on each page it was marked with the seal of confidentiality, which was naturally the choice of the last government. We were able to learn of an exchange of letters between Secretary of State Wathelet and the Speaker of the House André Flahaut, during the previous legislature, which insisted on the confidentiality of this agreement. It is therefore a question of having, if not following in the ideas, at least a sense of continuity in the affairs of the State. An extremely restrictive consultation was then organised via the data room that had been installed. We must respect the third parties who are party to this convention. It is clear today that the approach of my very esteemed colleagues Nollet and Calvo is not to table a motion for a resolution. Their aim is to publish a confidential convention.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u7	It's already done.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u8	Yes, but those who broadcast it took the responsibility to do so. It is a matter of engaging the parliament. The risk is, as you know very well, to put the Belgian State in a difficult situation. We therefore favour the precautionary principle and we hope – Mr Servais Vershertraeten has made a proposal in this direction – that we can find a friendly solution. Rather than grasping the hand that has been stretched out to you, you have chosen to "come to the clash" by affronting us with all the evils, indicating that we were bridging the freedom of speech. This is, in my view, a dangerous way of doing things. You have invoked the fundamental question of the freedom of expression of parliamentarians by presenting yourself as a victim when you are using a file in a strictly media manner and are diverting the very object of a resolution. Mr Nollet, I propose that you try to find a solution on the basis of the proposal made at the Conference of Presidents by Mr Servais Verherstraeten. However, Mr President, in view of the tragedy that has just taken place at the beginning of this plenary session, I have some doubts about a real willingness to reach a compromise on this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u9	Mr President, I did not intend to intervene, but Mr Ducarme's speech deserves an answer. Mr Ducarme's speech shows that he still hasn't understood it after a lot of discussion at the Conference of Presidents. Once again, he tries to make a discussion about this and the previous government of Mr Di Rupo. However, this has not been the case for a long time. Today we are talking about the fundamental choice of whether or not a Member can make use of Article 58 of the Constitution, of his parliamentary freedom or speech. It is no longer a question of the publication of the convention itself, which has already been published everywhere. The bizarre thing is that colleagues just wanted to have them refer to the RTBF or De Tijd's websites; it would be okay. It can therefore be found anywhere, except where it should be, especially on the website of the Chamber, on which commitments by the Belgian State, legislation and resolutions should be included. That should not be on the website of De Tijd or the RTBF, it should be on the website of this house. That's the point, Mr Ducarme. Mr President, we have been looking for solutions for a month. Several times we have come to your office to talk about this, but we stumbled upon a wall. We have not seen the President of the Chamber, but a partisan. We asked you first, Mr President, to intercede with the Minister, in a normal way, in order to promote our parliamentary democracy, to announce the convention. You didn't do that. We then said that we would do our legislative work and play our role as MEPs by tabling a resolution. You invited us and then talked about your gut feeling about liability risk. That's how you approach that file. We replied with ten pages. We have received one paragraph back on this point. That is not the behaviour of a President-in-Office, but of a party who is driving for a majority and a Minister of Energy who apparently have a problem with transparency. Last week, we agreed, as Mr Ducarme, among others, were able to testify, that there would be a check on whether there was a confidentiality clause. If there was none, the debate would change. All the members of the Conference of Presidents have been able to see it: there is no confidentiality clause. What are you doing, not as President of the Chamber, but as a partisan? You turn your cart and say today, under the impetus of Mr Ducarme, that you refuse to press this. The question put by Mr Nollet and by all of us is very legitimate. I will say the same in the next legislative term, at the time when the fellow Members of the N-VA submit something. If something were to be said about windmills, I would also say the same thing, because this is not about the nuclear aspect. This is about whether or not we MEPs can do our job. It's punishment that we have to ask for the documents. We have had to ask for a debate on this. You're the one who can avoid this. You can play your role as President of the Chamber and stress the importance of Article 58 of the Constitution. Mr President, this is so fundamental and fundamental. As Members of this House, we must be able to do our job. It's supposed to be in a democracy. After a month, we hope, at last, for some openness and a constructive answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u10	Mr President, I have the impression that Article 58 of the Constitution is being abused. Article 58 provides that no member may be prosecuted or examined. This is quite different from being liable for non-compliance with a given commitment. This is totally different. Article 58 cannot therefore be invoked in this case. It's being abused. A while ago, I read that if the Minister did not do so, people would make the convention public themselves. Well, what are we waiting for? Add the deed to the word instead of playing bluff poker and saddle others with it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u11	Mr President, last May, a little more than two months ago, you distributed to all our colleagues, and I also assume that Mr Degroote has a brochure. You saw her, you read her. It is a brochure on parliamentary irresponsibility. She explains in about thirty pages what article 58 of the Constitution is and what it is an absolute right, which was validated by the Court of Cassation following the 2006 decision. Mr Degroote, if you have not read them, all the references can be found in this brochure. But what's more, this book is prefaced by you, in person, Mr. President. Two months ago, you wrote in preface: "I am convinced that this new edition will help to better understand the meaning of parliamentary irresponsibility in the context of free political debate." That's what you're talking about. Today, we simply ask you to implement them, to take a decision in line with the prescription you sent to all parliamentarians. There is no limit to that. Not only is there no article or clause in the convention that provides for confidentiality – that's one thing. But beyond that, the proposal made to us in the Conference of Presidents, which is now relayed by Mr Ducrame in plenary session following various suggestions, is that we should re-submit a new text in which the content would not be included, but should be sent back to a site. But what an absurdity! What an absurdity for Parliament to agree to play this game, to accept that today it is no longer in our assembly that things should be said, but outside; and then that we should refer to what is said outside! What a overthrow of democracy! Today, as in 1830, as in the preparation of your brochure, as in the enactment of the Rules of Procedure, it is in this assembly that ecologists want to lead the debate – in this case, the debate on the convention, its content and the reason why you want to hide it. Mr President, I come back with our request to put on the agenda of tomorrow's sitting a debate on this problem of principle which is posed – not on the convention, we will have that debate later – and which cannot remain between the members of the Conference of Presidents alone. In order for the debate to be completed, I ask you to distribute, through your services, all the documents. If you don't, we can run the photocopiers. We've already done it in the past. At the time, Mr. Jamar had helped us. It would be easier for all colleagues to receive the legal exchanges we have had, which are very well summarized in this brochure. Mr Degroote, if you do not have it, I can offer it to you, everything is explained! Mr President, do you agree to introduce this debate, in any way, in the order of tomorrow's work?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u12	Ladies and gentlemen, I shall be very brief, because you will allow me not to respond to a number of accusations which, in my view, have been wrongly formulated. I would like to say three things very briefly. Firstly, the Rules of Procedure have been applied in the spirit and spirit of the letter. There is no other way outside the Rules of Procedure, in my view. Secondly, I've approached your file from a "aagnostic" attitude: I don't know, but I'll ask, knowing there's a problem. Ladies and gentlemen, I have not based myself on political arguments and certainly not on arbitrariness, I have based myself on advice that I have received from our own legal service. Mr Nollet, the legal debate has been extensive in the Conference of Presidents. The Legal Service has made it clear to me that there is indeed a question of liability and responsibility here. It is absolutely true that I have not decided to saddle the taxpayer with a bill of several million for some kind of sacred principle, to do one or the other a favor. I didn't want to take that responsibility. I can only agree that this does not affect the freedom of every Member's word. Give a press conference, invoke the European Convention on Human Rights and say what you have to say. (Mr Nollet and Mr Calvo express their displeasure.) Mr Nollet, let me speak for a moment. I come to your last point, which, as far as I am concerned, is the final point. You have put forward a proposal to change tomorrow's agenda and, so to speak, to postpone a debate. I suggest that we do so as usual and that we convene a Conference of Presidents tomorrow, at 12:00 or 12:30. We can then talk about your proposal there. I believe that we can end the debate with this.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u13	Mr President, I accept your proposal for a Conference of Presidents tomorrow to organise our afternoon work. In the meantime, I would ask you to distribute all the material so that colleagues can learn about our discussions. Otherwise, we can handle it ourselves. I would also like to recall one element that is in your legal services' note. I quote: "We share the view of the Director of Administration of the Legislative Secretariat that the authors, MM. Calvo and Nollet, do not leave strictly speaking the scope of parliamentary irresponsibility (Article 58 of the Constitution) by opting for the way of resolution: resolutions express opinions in the exercise of the parliamentary function." That's what your services say! How then do you come to the conclusion that you can refuse? We will have the debate tomorrow, in the Conference of Presidents first of all, in plenary session afterwards, because we believe that we cannot remain there, not on the principle of confidentiality of the Convention, but on the general principle. I appeal here to the Liberals and to those who have fought for years to be able to speak out, including on issues of interest to private companies. This must be done here, in Parliament, straight away, without having to go through the reference to a website in a resolution! We must be able to have this debate at the sitting, possibly with a disagreement on the substance, but with the possibility of holding a democratic debate in this forum, which we want to respect but which you are preventing us from working properly today.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u14	Mr President, I think the way Mr Nollet gives lessons is quite amazing! There is the tabling of a motion for a resolution, which is not one, on the fact that there are parliamentarians who have been able to consult this convention within the framework of the data room and who have broken the oath of confidentiality. This is still not nothing in terms of accountability in the head of parliamentarians! Mr. Nollet tells us that there was confidentiality, but no matter what, he washes his hands. He wants to publish it by breaking the duty of confidentiality for the past and no matter the future! Mr Nollet, come and give us lessons of democracy, of freedom of speech, as you sit down on the principle of responsibility, it's amazing!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u15	Mr. Ducrame, what you're doing is amazing! You're turning into a prosecutor. We have moved from a debate that should be of high quality on the powers of parliamentarians and on the framework of democracy to a debate where you are a prosecution against two elected members of this Parliament. What is this way of doing it? I'm so sorry!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u16	Everyone knows that the first prosecutor here is you!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u17	Mr. Ducrame, you're a performer. And we know what's going on with them. They can defend anything! Indeed, we have had high-quality debates. Some abstained when it was necessary to talk about the background outside of this desire to perform. Some in the Conference of Presidents discussed the substance, the Constitution and the jurisprudence. I said and repeated in the Conference of Presidents that I could understand that if a convention included confidentiality clauses, then it was in the best interests of the State to provide for an exception to the absolute nature of parliamentary irresponsibility. We did not necessarily all agree on this point. And that went beyond the majority/opposition framework. I agreed. The new fact is that there is no confidentiality clause in this agreement. So whether you want it or not, whether you think the resolution is good or not, whether it should exist or not, it doesn't matter! What is before us is the possibility for a parliamentarian to table a text and be covered by Article 58 of the Constitution. Mr President, by your fact, you are imposing incredible limits on this freedom of parliamentarians. That's not admissible! I agree with a discussion in the Conference of Presidents, but I would like you to be able to hold a serious debate, both substantively and legally, on the limits of democracy, because you risk creating a precedent that will continue for years to come. I ask you not to paralyse the debate, to allow a real debate to take place tomorrow in this House.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u18	Mr Ducarme, you claim that we are violating the rules of this house by working in this way. [[I have no choice but to respond.]] We have been constantly invited by fellow Members over the last few days and weeks to leak this and put it into practice. Mr Vuye, Professor of Constitutional Law, called in the Conference of Presidents to leak the document. However, ladies and gentlemen, it is precisely because we respect this Parliament because we want to respect the rules of the hemisphere and because we are convinced that such a text does not belong on the website of a newspaper but on the website of the Chamber, which we act in this way. So, Mr Ducarme, we do respect the functioning of the Chamber. I've had the lyrics for a long time. In the meantime, I've got it in several copies. You can already print the text from the RTBF and De Tijd websites. I could have leaked the document 37 000 times since 2013. However, we have not done so because we want to respect the agreements that apply in the house today, yesterday, for decades and for a long time. Mr Ducarme, what has changed since the previous similar discussions? Your Liberal Group, along with other political groups, has always drawn attention to the freedom of speech and to the need to be able to print their documents on proposals from Mr Van Rossem, Mr Laurent Louis or Mr Dewinter, whose ideas we abhor. Today, however, freedom of speech no longer exists in the minds of the liberals. Today the Liberals are at the barricade to shut people up. Today the Liberals are asking for it to go outside, but not in Parliament; not in the democracy that we have built together. That is Mr Ducarme's message.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u19	That's enough!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u20	Mr Dewael, if you do not agree, you must stand up. However, that is what I hear from the liberal family today. In the past, the liberals were allowed to print the documents of Van Rossem, Louis and Dewinter. The documents must not be printed today. Today there is no freedom or speech. That's what's on the table today.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u21	Mr President, I would like to point out to my fellow Members that I did not ask the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance to leak the document at the Conference of Presidents. The information provided by Mr Calvo is very incorrect. I note that for the umpteenth time he either did not listen to me or did not understand what I said in the Conference of Presidents.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u22	Ladies and gentlemen, I think we should conclude the debate. Mr Calvo, I made a proposal to discuss this at the Conference of Presidents. That was also your proposal. We will. We cannot continue this debate indefinitely. We will take a decision tomorrow at the Conference of Presidents, as usual.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u23	Mr President, I am of course fundamentally opposed to Mr Calvo on a number of points. I listened to your proposal and I assumed that we would resume the discussion tomorrow at the Conference of Presidents. In what context do we conduct this debate prior to our actual work? If the agenda is to be changed and a debate is to be held, procedural rules must be followed. I note that we have been debating an item that is not on the agenda for an hour. Mr Frédéric, if you want such respect for this institution, then respect the rules which must indeed ensure the proper functioning of this institution. If the President accepts the debate, I must, of course, accept his decision on this matter and propose that we discuss it tomorrow at the Conference of Presidents, and I see everyone nodding 'yes', then the debate will resume with the same arguments. To say now that, whatever is decided in the Conference of Presidents, we shall continue with that tomorrow afternoon, I do not agree with that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u24	Me neither.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u25	In that case, I will not come to the Conference of Presidents. I am also considering my participation in the Conference of Presidents in the future, when things are constantly being said and quoted from a closed meeting. Mr President, I would ask that the press be invited to the Conference of Presidents tomorrow, just to prevent Mr Calvo from again during the afternoon...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u26	(...) Defend the fact that you are calling into question the freedom of speech. Explain that!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u27	If Mr Calvo starts turning on his seat, it is because he knows that something will come that he prefers not to hear. In any case, I would like to stress once again that, as long as we are dealing with our work in the Conference of Presidents, we have been doing so for decades, and I have never seen it come to plenary and what has been agreed has been ignored. The agenda was approved by the Conference of Presidents and we have been ignoring that agreement for an hour. I do not accept that the opposition is making improper use of the Rules of Procedure, even abuse them. This is about admissibility. May I raise that principle here for a moment? This is not a matter of consideration. I have seen, Mrs Onkelinx, that your group repeatedly refused to consider legislative proposals, such as amnesty. They refused to debate it in Parliament because they absolutely did not want to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u28	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u29	Mr Nollet, I can speak myself. I don't need a souffleur. I was making a distinction between admissibility and consideration. The documents were, of course, printed at the time of consideration. I know the pronunciation better than anyone: "I abhor what you say." "I'm not talking about you personally." "But I will defend your right to say it with my life." That is the essence of a parliamentary debate. When it comes to freedom of expression, it is quite limitless as far as I am concerned. Unlimited! But, what if it's about the principle of liability? This seems to me to be a very difficult legal discussion. Is a particular agreement, in which the State is one of the parties, confidential or not? That is the question that needs to be answered here. I have looked into the documents and I believe it is true that there is no confidentiality clause in the convention. However, the previous government, Mr Nollet, and not the present one, asked Parliament and the then President of the Chamber, Mr Flahaut, not to make that convention public and, in order to respect confidentiality, to have the convention looked at in accordance with the principle for your eyes only. That means we can look into the document and consult it, but it's not being distributed. I'm not going to name any names, but you know who was in the last government. You know who the prime minister was, you also know who the minister responsible for energy was. In the end, this government does nothing more or less about the same text. It is only added today that the text of that convention has been the subject of publication on various websites. I am not going to look at certain people that I might suspect to have spread the text to certain newspapers. There's nothing as simple as handing over a text off the record. Mr President, I would also like to ask why we are only last-minute candidates. Why do we first leak to the media and then go to Parliament? It's said that it's actually gone without an object. That's not true. After all, if a debate could arise that would be fought before courts, and which could make a lot of lawyers a lot of money, then the question will be raised whether Parliament has not allowed itself to be used. Is Parliament not tense here? Did not the constitutional freedom or speech be used to make something confidential, I do not speak out about the latter, there is no clause in it, but the previous government felt that it should publish and then claim that public liability would be compromised? That's it. No more or no less than that. That is why, Mr Calvo, you lack the political courage to come out as a Member of Parliament and to announce the convention that you have been given for some reason. You're here looking for an alibi, an alibi, an escape mound. [[Applause]] That is what Mr Calvo is doing! He is playing the ball in Parliament's camp and in fact wants the text to go around in such a way that he could do so himself. But he misses the political guts to do so, and I find that regrettable. I was not going to intervene at first, but I was going to use it again tomorrow afternoon at a Conference of Presidents, to hear from you in the afternoon what I would or would not have said: that is of the good too much. I'm not gonna be a part of that anymore. I'm not going ice in one night, and I asked to see the text last week. Freedom of speech is a fundamental principle. You should also keep the admissibility assessment in that light. However, legal analyses state that the previous and current governments are based on confidentiality and that care must be taken to ensure that the liability of the government is not compromised. This may be a reason to make the choice of admissibility, as you have decided. We must take note of that. The Conference of Presidents cannot decide on this because there is no consensus. You have to decide. As far as I know, under the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber, it is not the full Chamber which is entitled to rule on that admissibility. In order to facilitate and facilitate tomorrow's debate, I suggest that Mr Nollet and Mr Calvo, who have been holding this Chamber hostage for a month, show the political courage to come out with the convention. Then everyone can determine what's in it and what's not. They don't. I'd like to wait until tomorrow to tell you my final verdict.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u30	Ladies and gentlemen, I can tell you that tomorrow at the Conference of Presidents it is the explicit intention to decide. That decision must be respected. If the decision is negative, we will not start the debate again in the afternoon. We need to wrap it up.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u31	Mr President, if you do not have a consensus in the Conference, you have no decision. If there is no decision, we will again ask for the debate to be held in plenary. Nor can there be a debate on the question of admissibility under the Rules of Procedure. We must be careful not to place too high expectations there. I agree with Mr Verherstraeten's proposal this morning. Is it really not possible, knowing what we know now, to allow informal consultations between the groups so that we can put an end to this thorny issue?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u32	I do not want to be misunderstood, Mr Dewael. A service braking system shall not be considered to be a service braking system within An additional debate has been requested. Then there is no decision on an additional debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u33	Mr President, Mr Dewael, with great talent, appeals to our political courage. See what we are in today! The political courage is to dare have a debate in plenary, because we would like it to be kept in a closed and closed place, the Conference of Presidents. That is what we are reduced to! It's still serious! If tomorrow a new Conference of Presidents is held and no consensus is reached, we are prevented from talking about it! Our will, beyond the present case, is to respect the principle of freedom of expression attached to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u34	We are not going to repeat the debate!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u35	Mr President, at least let me finish my reasoning! Mr Dewael, a judgment of the Court of Cassation was delivered in 2006, in respect of which no one gave any legal response. This ruling states that it is in the House that this is done for the protection of parliamentarians, but also for the protection of the House and the State. That is why the path we have chosen is that of respecting the functioning of our institutions, is that of tabling a motion for a resolution. That is how we translate the notion of courage! But if tomorrow you force us to publish, via an internet link, what a drift! But what a drift for our parliament as a whole! And it is because this risk of drift exists that we must hold a debate in plenary, if any refusal to publish is to be confirmed tomorrow. And any other provocation in this matter, such as: "You must settle this dispute outside", let us leave it for the nineteenth century! In 1866, one of your predecessors had already had the same reflex to provoke a colleague who wanted to hold the debate here – and it is Mr. Vuye who reminds him in his courses or publications – by offering him to discuss it outside this chamber. It was another weapon back then. I refer you back, because as environmentalists, we want democratic institutions to work. And democracy is being played here in parliament and not outside! Already at the time, it had been refused. We're not going to change today, Mr. Dewael. Don't put us back in the past! Turn to the future and be accepted by the majority in which you sit, that this debate be held here in plenary session! I would like to add one last point of a legal nature, Mr President.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u36	No, we've already lost a lot of time!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u37	Mr. President, one last thing...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u38	No!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u39	Why not?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u40	Mr Nollet, I call you to order for the first time, because nothing new is added. It is high time to conclude the discussion and continue the debate. Mr Nollet, you must not try.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u41	Mr President, one last point of a legal nature. When Belgium intervenes at European level, the Belgian government itself has been obliged to answer to the European Court of Human Rights that the immunity which covers acts infringes the rights of the citizen...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u42	Thank you, Mr Nollet. As agreed, we will continue this debate at the Conference of Presidents tomorrow at 12.30 p.m.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u43	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 22 July 2015, I propose that you register on the agenda of this afternoon's plenary session the bill (Mrs Vincent Scourneau, Philippe Goffin, Gilles Foret and Denis Ducarme) amending the Code of Justice and the Law of 17 March 2013 on reform of the rules of incompetence and the creation of a new protection status consistent with human dignity, n° 1208/1 to 4. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 22 July 2015, I propose that the bill be placed on the agenda of this afternoon's plenary session (MM. Vincent Scourneau, Philippe Goffin, Gilles Foret and Denis Ducrame) amending the Judicial Code and the Act of 17 March 2013 reforming disability regimes and introducing a new protection status consistent with human dignity, Nos. 1208/1 to 4. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u44	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Raf Terwingen, Sonja Becq, Gilles Foret, Philippe Goffin, Carina Van Cauter, Servais Verherstraeten.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u45	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur, Mr Christian Brotcorne, referred to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u46	Mr President, I would like to justify the fact that we will vote against this bill, which is part of what is commonly referred to as potpourri. This is a further postponement of the decision taken a number of years ago on the establishment and implementation of a sentencing court. If everyone agrees that this should be postponed, my group has been waiting too long for the real implementation of this court. We therefore want to send a clear political message on this subject. Indeed, this situation cannot be sustained both from a budgetary point of view and from a content point of view. Mr Minister, today we are waiting for potpourri No. 2 to resolve the issue. Moreover, as you know, as an opposition party, we make no concessions, but we are just.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u47	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u48	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1235/4) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1235/4) The title in Dutch was amended by the Committee in its proposal for a law amending Article 51 of the Law of 17 May 2006 setting up criminal courts and amending Article 109 of the Law of 17 May 2006 on the external legal status of the sentenced persons to a custodial sentence and the rights granted to the victim in the context of the terms of criminal enforcement as regards entry into force. The title in Dutch has been amended by the committee in legislative proposal amending Article 51 of the Law of 17 May 2006 establishing criminal courts and amending Article 109 of the Law of 17 May 2006 on the external legal status of the sentenced persons to custodial sentences and the rights granted to the victim in the context of the rules of criminal enforcement, as regards entry into force ........................................................................................ . The bill has 4 articles. The bill has 4 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u49	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u50	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Raf Terwingen, Sonja Becq, Gilles Foret, Philippe Goffin, Carina Van Cauter, Servais Verherstraeten.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u51	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u52	Mr President, I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u53	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u54	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1237/3) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1237/3) The title was amended by the Committee in its proposal for a Law amending the Law of 13 January 1977 approving the Agreement on the establishment of a system of registration of wills, drawn up at Basel on 16 May 1972 and establishing a Central Marriage Agreements Register." The title was amended by the committee to propose a law amending the Act of 13 January 1977 approving the Convention on the Establishment of a System of Registration of Wills, done at Basel on 16 May 1972 and introducing a central register of marriage contracts. The bill has 5 articles. The bill has 5 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u55	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u56	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Raf Terwingen, Sonja Becq, Gilles Foret, Philippe Goffin, Carina Van Cauter, Servais Verherstraeten.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u57	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mrs Smeyers, rapporteur, referred to her written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u58	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1238/3) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1238/3) The title was amended by the Committee in its proposal for a law amending Article 272 of the Law of 30 July 2013 on the introduction of a family and youth court." The title has been amended by the Commission to propose a law amending section 272 of the Act of 30 July 2013 establishing a family and youth court. The bill has 2 articles. The bill has two articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u59	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u60	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Raf Terwingen, Sonja Becq, Gilles Foret, Philippe Goffin, Carina Van Cauter, Servais Verherstraeten.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u61	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mr Egbert Lachaert, rapporteur, referred to his written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u62	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1239/3) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1239/3) The title was amended by the Committee in its proposal for a law amending Article 145 of the Law of 1 December 2013 on reform of the judicial districts and amending the Court's Code with a view to increasing the mobility of members of the judicial order." The title has been amended by the Commission to propose a law amending Article 145 of the Law of 1 December 2013 on the reform of judicial districts and amending the Judicial Code with a view to enhancing the mobility of members of the judiciary". The bill has 2 articles. The bill has two articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u63	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u64	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Raf Terwingen, Sonja Becq, Gilles Foret, Philippe Goffin, Carina Van Cauter, Servais Verherstraeten.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u65	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mrs Smeyers, rapporteur, referred to her written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u66	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1236/4) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1236/4) The title in Dutch was amended by the Committee in its proposal for a law amending the Code of Justice as regards the detailed rules of a contract of general interest with an international, supranational or foreign institution." The Court of Justice of the European Communities, the Court of Justice of the European Communities, the Court of Justice of the European Communities, the Court of First Instance of the European Communities, the Court of First Instance of the European Communities, the Court of First Instance of the European Communities, the Court of First Instance of the European Communities, the Court of First Instance of the European Communities, the Court of First Instance of the European Communities, the Court of First Instance of the European Communities, the Court of First Instance of the European Communities, the Court of First Instance of the European Communities and the Court of Justice of the European Communities, the Court of First Instance of the The bill has 4 articles. The bill has 4 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u67	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u68	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Vincent Scourneau, Philippe Goffin, Gilles Foret, Denis Ducrame.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u69	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u70	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am giving a brief report. Mr Vincent Scourneau has submitted a legislative proposal to address two bottlenecks that he has identified together with a number of actors in the field following the entry into force of the Law of 17 March 2013 on Reform of the Incompetence Schemes, which entered into force on 1 July 2014. A number of practical concerns have now arisen in the field. Two of them he wanted to solve with the present bill. A first concern relates to the fact that not all doctors are sufficiently familiar with the new obligations of the Court's Code with regard to petitions and the detailed medical statements to be added to the opening application. In particular, it concerns the provision in paragraph 3 of Article 1241, 5°, in particular the obligation to refer to the effects of the state of health on the functioning of an international classification established by the World Health Assembly of 22 May 2015 in the detailed medical certificate attached to the application, which must describe the state of health of the person to be protected. In order to respond to this and to ensure that the necessary protection when a person is in a state of incompetence is not delayed further, it is proposed to give doctors sufficient time to familiarise themselves with those provisions. It is therefore proposed to postpone by two years the entry into force of the obligation set out in Article 1241, third paragraph, 5° of the Civil Code, until 1 September 2017. A second problem relates to the transitional provisions of the Law of 17 March 2013, in particular Article 228, which, with regard to the provisional regimes granted prior to the entry into force of the Law of 1 September 2014, provided that they will have to comply with the new provisions from 1 September 2016, which is a relatively short deadline. It is therefore proposed to extend the period laid down in the law to five years. There were several statements by Mr Massin, Mrs Uyttersprot, Mrs Gerkens, Mr Brotcorne, Mrs Becq and myself. Five amendments were tabled which had only a legal and technical scope. All the amendments were adopted unanimously, as were the amended legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u71	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u72	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1208/4) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1208/4) The title was amended by the Committee in its proposal for a law amending the Code of Justice and the Law of 17 March 2013 reforming the rules on incompetence and establishing a new protection status in line with human dignity." The title has been amended by the commission to propose a law amending the Judicial Code and the law of 17 March 2013 reforming the disability regimes and introducing a new protection status in accordance with human dignity". The bill has 6 articles. The bill has 6 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u73	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u74	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Brecht Vermeulen, Franky Demon, Katja Gabriels, Philippe Pivin.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u75	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mr Eric Thiébaut, rapporteur, referred to the written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u76	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1240/5) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1240/5) The bill has 7 articles. The bill has 7 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u77	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u78	Proposals tabled by: Proposals submitted by: - 1225: Inez De Coninck, Jef Van den Bergh, Jean-Jacques Flahaux, Wouter Raskin, Gilles Foret, Nele Lijnen, Peter Dedecker, Sabien Lahaye-Battheu - 962: Marcel Cheron, Stefaan Van Hecke, Kristof Calvo, Jean-Marc Nollet, Georges Gilkinet, Evita Willaert, David Geerts. I propose that a single discussion be devoted to these two motions for resolutions. I propose that you devote one discussion to these two motions for resolutions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u79	The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1225/3) The text adopted by the Commission as the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1225/3) The meeting's open. The discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u80	Mr President, I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u81	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, our motion for a resolution deals with the evaluation by the Court of Auditors of the implementation of the management contracts which the Belgian State has with the public undertakings Infrabel and SNCB. Let me outline the framework of our resolution. As you know, the management agreements expired in 2012. Since then, they have been silently extended. Negotiations on new management agreements will start in the autumn. In the light of this, we have drawn up this resolution. We want to check whether public funds have been used efficiently and whether both companies have used all the resources to achieve the objectives set out in the management agreements. I would like to thank Mr Cheron for his constructive attitude in committee. He took the initiative for this resolution. However, our proposal for a majority resolution is based on a totally different logic. Where his proposal is based on the demand for more money or a critical attitude to savings, our proposal on the evaluation of management contracts is nothing more or nothing less. In consideration, our proposal goes a lot further on certain points. We are asking for a fundamental review, not just of compliance with management contracts; we are also asking the Court of Auditors, as a preventive measure, whether it is possible to improve internal control procedures in order to avoid possible deviations. We also call for an investigation into the possibilities of strengthening our parliamentary power to correct irregularities and deviations from the ex post management contract. This is about compliance with management contracts. We discussed this in detail in committee. Ecolo-Groen was the initiator and constructively supported our proposal. After all, the most important thing is that the Court of Auditors should carry out this monitoring and monitoring. Apparently, this made it more difficult for colleagues from PS and sp.a to deal with, but we note that, despite their protest in committee, they have agreed to our proposal, with the exception of two abstentions on two specific points. I have dealt with the most important of our resolution. I'll repeat it again. It is about the management contracts, nothing more and nothing less, and we ask the Court of Auditors, in drawing up the new management contracts, to check whether these EUR 3 billion in public funds per year were not used in a less efficient way.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u82	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, once it is not customary, I would like to thank and congratulate the majority. The group leaders won't hold me to it. There are times when you have to be great lord. The holidays may be coming but, above all, the majority had the intelligence to recognize that our text was timely. It not only recognized it, but used a number of elements, approximately 90 to 95 per cent of the text. So that's a good thing. I am pleased that the whole of this House meeting can ask the Court of Auditors to carry out an important audit of the management contracts concerning SNCB, which concern Infrabel, which therefore concern the whole railway group on which the minister presented her "strategic vision" last week. I'm just quoting it. I will make no further comments. We already did it last week. We'll come back. On the other hand, we will therefore welcome the fact that the Court of Auditors can do this work. Ms. De Coninck had the kindness and intellectual honesty to quote the lead authors. There is a beautiful French word called palimpsestes. Miller is a specialist not for personal use of palimpsest, but he knows very well that under the palimpsest, we find the original. Therefore, do not look: the ecologists actually submitted on 17 March 2015 a text which asked to carry out this audit. Mrs De Coninck, thank you and thank you to the majority for having had this political intelligence to follow us and attribute to you the authorship of the text. After all, it's probably normal. But the concession that was to be made by the opposition, that is to say us, is great and eternal because the Court of Auditors will carry out the audit. That is what we are going to take note of today and vote tomorrow. Colleagues, what matters with this audit is to look at the policies of this railway group on the basis of the management contract, which is so fundamental that it needs to be reviewed, corrected and re-established by the current government. According to the Minister, this management contract will be in place in the first half of 2016, when it was initially announced in early 2015. It is important to note that this management contract represents a real contract between the public enterprises concerned, the federal state and this parliament when voting on the budgets of the endowment. These companies benefit from a public allocation which must be justified in relation to public service tasks. The challenge of the future management contract is fundamental, it affects the future of rail and represents the translation of a desire to invest sustainably in mobility. The Court of Auditors must be allowed to carry out effective work. Mrs De Coninck, although you may find it difficult, the 5% of the text which has not been approved is merely a reminder of the fact that this government has, from the beginning, decided to make drastic cuts in the budgets of the allocations allocated to the SNCB. Minister Galant herself acknowledges that over the entire legislature, more than three billion euros will not be allocated to public rail policy. Obviously, it was difficult for you to see it written and you removed it from your text. However, even if I am hard, I will be right because you have introduced in a complementary way into the text, a possible task of the Court of Auditors in relation to the management of subsidiaries. The subsidiaries of SNCB are sometimes referred to too much. On the other hand, if the Court of Auditors can be interested, it will be useful since internal audits have shown that, as Mr Cornu has said, there is a potential for "suspecting corruption". These statements are not secret, Mr.Laaouej, but a quotation from the press. Following an audit commissioned by SNCB, Mr Cornu referred to suspicions of corruption in the construction of stations. It would be appropriate for the Court of Auditors to be able to refine the audit methodology for the many subsidiaries of this public undertaking. It was a first element. The second element that you have added in a useful way, Mrs De Coninck – and you see that I am really trying to be precise – is to check how the mandatory nature of the implementation of management contracts can be strengthened; it will probably be a useful work. Last thing, ladies and gentlemen, in how long can this work be done? I looked at what the Court of Auditors had done in July 2008, since the same Court of Auditors had been referred to it by a resolution of this Chamber on 19 March 2008. This was a request for an audit of the implementation of management contracts. I'd tell my friends at the PTB... see how open I am. I even have friends at the PTB. Today, in the same speech, I praise the majority and say I have friends at the PTB. It's really a great time! It smells like holidays! I would therefore say to you, Mr Van Hees, that your amendment was nice, but you are talking about the present, when it comes to the past. We are talking about the evaluation of management contracts. Even Ms Galant is convinced that there have been no dark cuts in the SNCB budget under the previous legislature. The Court of Auditors was seized by a resolution of the Parliament on 19 March 2008. The mission letter of the Court of Auditors is dated 18 April 2008 and, on 18 June 2008, an important date, the draft report is sent to the audit interlocutors, since the Court of Auditors is doing a first job and then addressing the various interlocutors, and it returns to the House of Representatives on 30 July 2008. March to July, you see that the Court of Auditors can do this work in a few months. Ladies and gentlemen, what a pleasure a proposal from a small, modest minority group could be taken over by the majority at 95%. You will understand that this is an almost historic moment, moving, Mr. Borsus. That's what this Parliament is doing, no doubt. Beyond that, we will now take a major decision on an important public railway undertaking in this country on which we are counting for the future. We hope that through this vote there will then be this precise request to the Court of Auditors, Mr President – I know that you will be the preferred interlocutor – and that the Court of Auditors can do this within the long time required. From this work of the Court of Auditors, the text says, the government that is in the process of developing management contracts will have to take this audit into account in order to determine the best possible management contracts for the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u83	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in the good report referred to by Mrs Poncelet and in Mrs De Coninck's speech, it was said that we agreed to this resolution two weeks ago, because our fundamental premise is that an investigation and audit by the Court of Auditors can bring added value. However, the report shows that this does not mean that we agree or agree with the intention, with the way in which this majority is playing with the feet of the opposition. I will not repeat the debate that took place an hour ago, but in this completely different dossier, it appears once again, now on a very good text by Mr Cheron. At a certain point in time the committee is asked to wait for a moment and instead of amending it we want to retable a text with urgency. It was not possible to amend, because there was really nothing fundamental to say about the savings of EUR 2.1 billion. That is the essence of the story, that is what the majority does, but that cannot be discussed. CD&V talks about mobility, but saves a lot of money. So don't come back and tell employees and students and anyone who uses the train, even in rural municipalities, that you are not responsible for removing the offer. That's the essence of the story. That is why Mr Cheron's resolution should not be discussed at all. Two weeks ago, you thought that the discussion of this resolution was a walk through the park, but unfortunately, as an opposition, despite the fact that we agree with the audit of the Court of Auditors, we felt that we should make important comments on this text. The majority text talks about efficiency. It's not always feasible. Last week we got the Galant plan. The Minister himself spoke of a strategic vision. Excuse me, ladies and gentlemen, but I have not been able to draw any conclusions from that. The Galant plan was only strategic communication, probably because there was no agreement within the government and the companies absolutely did not know or know how to achieve the savings. Therefore, a PowerPoint presentation was given and it was said that all this would be returned to the CEO's, then let them report afterwards how they would do everything. Whether this is realistic was a detail. In the meantime, we are talking about things that have happened at the branches and which are absolutely reprehensible. An investigating judge was appointed in the context of possible corruption and we will have to wait for that investigation. They're absolutely reprehensible things. Whether it's legally punishable is a big question mark. It may be good that this is now being investigated by the Court of Auditors, but I wonder to what extent the Court of Auditors is competent to effectively control all branches. Was this thought made by the authors of this resolution? I asked that question in committee and I received a number of answers, but I did not receive any fundamental answers. What do you really expect from this audit and what will you do afterwards? My conclusion is this. This government saves 2.1 billion euros for SNCB and Infrabel. This government will be responsible for the fact that students, employees and pensioners will soon have to pay much more. This government will be responsible for eliminating the supply of trains in rural areas. Unfortunately, it is. Go tell them in the Kempen, also the electrification to Mol and Neerpelt will be deleted. The MR has the mouth full of la dorsal wallonne: well, that's the first thing that will be deleted. This government then has the guts to save the 2.1 billion and in the meantime ask for an audit. Well, we are in favour of this audit, but then we want to hear from this government a fundamental answer to the question of how these savings are to be made. One must stop the travellers turning a wheel in front of the eyes.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u84	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I want to say that this resolution is as welcome as it is unwelcome. Welcome, because the situation of SNCB is critical and an analysis of its management can only help to improve things, if such a will exists in the head of a coalition of privatization worshippers. Unwelcome, because it could be hypocritical on the part of a majority to seek primarily the source of the problems in mismanagement, while the root cause of the problems is to be sought in budget cuts that have accumulated year by year and which, with this legislature, are still gaining momentum. The PTB has been working with field people to look for the causes of the malfunctioning of the SNCB, rail, including train delays. What are the causes? A series of reasons, which have a common trunk: lack of maintenance. I quote: "The first causes of delay are damage to rolling stock, infrastructure and signage. Prior to this, the rolling stock was maintained on a regular basis. Now, the habit is to maintain the equipment when it has a failure." Passenger cars, whose heating does not initially work because of a lack of preventive maintenance, are one of the daily reasons for the suppression of trains, the explosion of which has been seen in the last ten years. A car can drive for a week with a door that doesn't work until a train attendant discovers that the second door doesn't work either, shortly before departure. In this case it is important to maneuver the car to remove it. Here's an example! I could also mention the lack of maintenance of the infrastructure, the sharp decrease of the rolling staff, the lack of convenience stores, the reduction of the stopping time at the terminal stations and the split of the SNCB, i.e. not only the lack of resources given to SNCB and Infrabel. Indeed, a report attests that the punctuality of trains has begun to deteriorate with the division of SNCB into several companies. Infrabel's numbers show the same thing. According to federal railway specialists in Switzerland, considered to be the best in the world, the idea of separating track management from train operation is fundamentally wrong. Finally, all these problems can be summarized in two points. First of all, structural underinvestment for many years. Therefore, it was not the government in place that initiated railway savings. However, it must be admitted that the bar is very high with more than 3 billion euros accumulated under the legislature.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u85	Mr President, Mr Van Hees and the previous speakers cite the savings they have made in their critical attitude to our motion for a resolution. I invite them to read our proposal thoroughly. They will then find that this proposal has nothing, but nothing, to do with the budget or with the savings that the government has to make. Our proposal concerns management contracts, nothing more and nothing less. We give EUR 3 billion to the railways every year. Surely we can expect a good service? However, there appear to be many problems. We want to see how the funds were used, because the service for passengers is not optimal. The savings have nothing to do with the expiry of the management contracts. These savings must be made in order to clean up the mess of socialist policy and in the case of SNCB they really have been messed up.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u86	I do not know the list of members of the party from outside, but I did not see Mr Descheemaecker's name in it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u87	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u88	Mr President, as Mr Cheron points out, I am not a member of the Socialist Party. If you've listened carefully, I've denounced the savings that have been on the railways for years. I added that the government is putting the bar even higher. This means that the problems are likely to be even greater, since I am trying to demonstrate that the fundamental problem with liberalisation lies in the cuts in the allocation granted to SNCB. Beyond the management problems that we will be able to analyse, I denounce the main causes. That is why I am tabling an amendment. I criticise this motion for a resolution for seeing only the management aspect and not the other problems which cause difficulties for railway companies in the performance of their public service tasks. My amendment proposes adding a point to the resolution calling on the Court of Auditors to examine, in its analysis of the causes that would cause public service tasks to be insufficiently or not sufficiently fulfilled, the share which falls, first, on management problems, secondly, on the effects of liberalisation and, thirdly, on insufficient federal funding. It is indeed important to know the causes and the relative weight of each of them.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u89	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The meeting's over. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u90	• Marco Van Hees cs (1225/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u91	The vote on the amendment retained and on the whole of the proposal will take place later. The vote on the reserved amendment and on the whole proposal will take place at a later stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u92	Proposals tabled by: Proposals submitted by: - 1207: Peter De Roover, Denis Ducrame, Tim Vandenput, Sarah Claerhout, Jean-Jacques Flahaux, Peter Luykx, Els Van Hoof - 389: Filip Dewinter, Barbara Pas, Jan Penris - 1201: Georges Dallemagne, Catherine Fonck, Benoît Lutgen, Olivier Maingain - 1229: Stéphane Crusnière, Özlem Özen, Philippe Blanchart, Gwenaëlle Grovonius. I propose that a single discussion be devoted to these four motions for resolutions. I propose that you devote one discussion to these four motions for resolutions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u93	The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1207/6) The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1207/6) I have received additional lists on the petition from the Platform of the Belgian Turks, which has been submitted to the Chamber. The meeting's open. The discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u94	Mr President, in view of the extensive and very interesting debates we have had on this subject, I would like to refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u95	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as hard as it may sound, violence remains of all times and seems to be part of human nature. The events in Suruç a few days ago illustrated that painful truth again. The fact that the victims were young people gathered in this Kurdish city to do construction work in Kobane gives an extra tragic dimension to this attack. Tomorrow, that painful truth will probably be confirmed elsewhere, for the umpteenth time. Even the pacifist idea that violence should be eradicated bears the traces of violence, because there are always violent people who commit the facts. Violence evokes vengeance and then threatens to sink into a self-nutrient process. Breaking that perverse mechanism is extremely difficult and requires a great deal of courage, courage from the victims or from their descendants, but even more courage from the perpetrators and their descendants. How difficult and demanding such a process is, recently it appeared at the commemoration of the terrible events in Srebrenica, twenty years ago. For some of the victims' relatives, the wounds were still too fresh to bear the presence of Serbian Prime Minister Aleksandr Vucic. However, they are directors who, by their function, must take the first steps towards reconciliation. If the events of Srebrenica are still fresh in memory, then the resolution now before us deals with tragic facts that took place a century ago. When Prime Minister Michel finally formally recognised those facts on behalf of this country on 18 June last as genocide, not a day too early. This government is therefore to be commended for taking the step that previous Cabinets have never taken. Thanks to the formal recognition by the Prime Minister in this Chamber, a resolution on this matter has become empty today. There should be no doubt as to the importance of that recognition on 18 June, which was clear and, above all, full. The Armenian genocide must no longer be recognised here today, and that has already happened quite clearly. Of course, the Court agrees with this by continuing to work on this recognition, as has been the case in our motion for a resolution. Today we are addressing another dimension which builds on the Prime Minister's statements. This kind of drama debris grows into a collective trauma for a whole people or a population group and is pierced by a generation after a generation if no steps towards reconciliation are taken. That is what we are talking about here today, a call for reconciliation. This reconciliation can only be achieved if the Turkish government admits without any haze that there has been a genocide on the Armenian people in the Ottoman Empire since 1915. Many Turks have already done so, and some even ended up behind bars before that, but the evolution in the social debate in Turkey can never be reversed. The taboo on the G-word can no longer resist the pressure of the facts. On the official Turkish side, however, the floor remains out until today. This resolution is therefore a clear appeal from our people's representatives to Turkey to finally take the necessary step towards reconciliation. Today we do not want to point the finger at people or institutions because they would be Turkish or Turkish. No one is responsible solely because his or her crib has stood somewhere. We also make that clear in this resolution. But let there be no misunderstanding: whoever denies the genocide today or even justifies it, is on the side of those who were responsible and therefore, by what is said or concealed, takes over responsibility, including morale. If prominent Turkish politicians and institutions still deny or even justify the genocide today, then they are partly responsible for what they say, not because of their Turkish background. If petitions are still being organised today to charge the recognition of the genocide, even among people with Turkish roots who live here, then the signatories are liable, not because of their origin, but because of their signature today. I received a letter from a concerned Armenian, of which I would like to share the following passage with you. I quote: "The descendant of the executioner is not a executioner." The victim's offspring remains a victim. But the child of the executioner who denies the murders besmirches his dignity, that of the victims and of the children of the victims. This resolution can only be read and understood in that spirit. During the same period Arameans, former Syrians, Chaldeans and even Syrians and Pontic Greeks were also victims of conscious mass murders. This resolution, which is the result of discussions between several parties, deals specifically with the genocide of the Armenians, but we have also explicitly mentioned those other groups in our responsibility. Our hearts are with them too, and they must not be left unmentioned here today. Ladies and gentlemen, I would now like to address the opposition's fellow Members specifically. A resolution is a text. The right words can always be disputed. Other wordings would have been possible, but the development of a concrete text is what it is. You have put forward other proposals, which, by the way, not only deserve respect for all of us, but which are very valuable in terms of content and, of course, because you have submitted them, have your preference. But the key message that we want to bring here today will become all the stronger as it is supported as widely as possible. Party-political considerations which, let us be honest, play a role in each of us, should not cloud the message. Can I ask you to support this resolution in the sense I have outlined here, in view of this key message, so that this Parliament can express its firm support in this appeal to the Turkish authorities to take the necessary step towards reconciliation by formally recognising the Armenian genocide? A son of an Armenian constable gave me the pin I've now pinned, with an image of the anmoruk on it. That is a flower that we also know and which in the Netherlands has the appropriate name forget-me-notje. That forget-me-notje symbolises the message that we want to deliver today. We do not forget them, so that forgiveness may follow as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u96	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, as we all know, this year we are commemorating the centenary of the Armenian genocide. This is a momentum that our Assembly, like other European assemblies, could not fail to recognize formally and on its behalf this genocide. That was my group's intention when we tabled our text. Indeed, the PS has always made a clear statement on the issue of the Armenian genocide. Our party president thus recalled that the PS undoubtedly recognized this genocide, which is a historical reality. As I have already been able to say in committee, it is a prerequisite to begin a real work of memory, to build the future and to prevent such a tragedy from happening again. This is also the purpose of the commemorations of later genocides. It is up to us to take into account all the dark pages of the history of humanity, of which it is a full part. Remembering history is not in vain, pastoristic or stigmatizing. On the contrary! When, together with my group, we drafted the text of our motion for a resolution, we were keen to reject firmly the stigmatization of communities that cannot be associated with acts committed more than 100 years ago in the Ottoman Empire. That said, memory is a wealth that must guide our citizen and political actions so that the "never again" will find an echo once the time has passed and the oblivion waits. But memory work is not enough. It must also be accompanied by real reconciliation work. In my view, alongside the recognition of genocide, it is equally essential to encourage real work of reconciliation and rapprochement of peoples and communities. This memory work is not new. As a reminder, it was Senator Philippe Mahoux who, as early as 1998, passed a resolution on the recognition of the Armenian genocide. Without any ambiguity, the Senate already invited the Turkish government to recognize the reality of the genocide perpetrated in 1915 by the Ottoman Empire government. It is thanks to this resolution that the Belgian Parliament has since been included in the list of European Parliaments which have done this indispensable duty of remembrance. It is therefore in the continuity of this work of memory already carried out at the time by the Senate, of the resolution of 2003, co-signed by my colleague, the late Patrick Moriau, adopted in the Committee on External Relations, but also of the resolution recently adopted by the European Parliament which I, on behalf of my group, presented our text on the recognition of the Armenian genocide on the occasion of the commemoration of its centenary. This text was written with my colleagues in a proactive desire for dialogue and reconciliation rather than confrontation. With this proposal, my group and all its elected representatives intended to give a clear signal of their position on the Armenian genocide, while taking a positive approach to bringing communities closer together. For, contrary to the text of the majority that was imposed on us in committee, the request 1 of the text of the PS was very clear. She had no ambiguity. I quote: "The Chamber believes that the tragic events between 1915 and 1917, for which the last government of the Ottoman Empire is responsible, must be described as genocide."
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u97	Mr Crusnière, I think that we have already discussed the matter at some length in committee. I have the impression that the tone of the debate that we are going to have here will probably be a little less tense. However, when you tell us that the PS proposal has no ambiguity in relation to point 1, I wonder about your motion for a resolution which I find well written. Of course, I do not deny the work you were able to do with Mr Mahoux and Mr Moriau as well. I know that you have treated this subject with sincerity. However, I am not aware of anything in your motion for a resolution. This ambiguity you deny, it seems to me to find it. Explain to me why, in the context of this nine-point motion for a resolution, requests to the federal government only begin at the sixth. Point 1, which considers that the tragic events between 1915 and 1917, for which the last government of the Ottoman Empire is responsible, must be described as genocide, is not a request that you make to the government since genocide has already been recognized by it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u98	Mr Ducrame, I ask that this be a gesture of the House.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u99	Mr Crusnière, a motion for a resolution is a request to the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u100	Not always, Mr. Ducrame. We have already had this debate. I confess that following our exciting committee meeting, I was able to question the services of the House. They told me that under the articles of the Constitution, especially articles 33 and 42, nothing prevented the House from taking such decisions. We must not always fall behind the Rules of Procedure as you do. I'm glad you put the rules forward. I hope you keep reading it during the holidays. Thus, in the future, the Conferences of Presidents will be shorter! Using this as a sex cache is a little small. We've taken on our responsibilities. We are going to resubmit an amendment calling for this recognition. We hope, as I will have the opportunity to say a little further in my presentation, that everyone, who will have the opportunity to vote on this amendment, will take on their responsibilities.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u101	So you confirm to me that of the nine requests you make, only 6, 7, 8 and 9 are formal requests to the government? The other requests, you limit them to the House.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u102	It is well indicated that these are requests to the government (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u103	I don't know who wears the sex mask, but I feel like it's you, Mr. Crusnière.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u104	Mr President, although we have, of course, taken note of the Prime Minister's important statements in this same forum, it remains, however, that - Mr Ducrame, I confirm - it is indeed our institution that formally and solemnly it is up to us to recognize the Armenian genocide. This would indeed remove any ambiguity in the head of Belgium since, paradoxically in the statements of the Prime Minister, Belgium was noticed by the absence of its head of government MR...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u105	I'm a little tired of the way you're transforming the facts. You're a very good man. On 18 June, the Prime Minister recognized the Armenian genocide, and thus our country recognized it. And you're asking us to remove any ambiguity. You know that on 18 June Belgium officially recognised the Armenian genocide. This was done here in the House. And you, you arrive like white knights with four trains late, to indicate that any ambiguity should be removed. We made it clear with that majority. We produced what we may not have been able to produce with you when we were in charge together. Since 18 June, there has been no ambiguity about the Armenian genocide. Belgium acknowledged this by its Prime Minister's statement on behalf of the Belgian Government and therefore on behalf of Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u106	The ambiguity, Mr.Ducarme, is not in relation to the Prime Minister's statements. It is in relation to the absences of the Prime Minister, the absences of the Minister of Foreign Affairs during official commemorations. Ambiguity, it's here, Mr. Ducrame. It's not in the statements, it's in the acts and in the actions, Mr Ducrame! Not in declarations, in actions, and in acts!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u107	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u108	He's here, Mr. Ducrame! He'll have an opportunity to speak out.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u109	Mr Ducrame, you tabled this resolution and here you unveiled your game. You have tabled a resolution to make it difficult for some Members who may have been potentially in jeopardy with their home community. But when they put your nose in your poop – and I weigh my words – and they point out to you that the Minister of Foreign Affairs was not in Yerevan a few months ago, and that your resolution was masturbated under pressure from the Turkish embassy, you realize it and you reveal yourself. Your resolution is just a sex cache!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u110	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I understand the different approaches. If it had not been for the Prime Minister's statement, we could of course have taken a step here by recognizing the genocide on behalf of the Chamber. However, something happened on 18 June. We can differ on this. Once again, I respect every interpretation and every interpretation, but I have just said in the Chair, and I would like to repeat, for the sake of clarity, that this resolution does not replace the Prime Minister's statement, but that we build on it, following the Prime Minister's statement. Building on that statement, it is in that spirit that we are tabling the resolution, and also in that spirit that it should be read, we are taking further steps, including towards the Turkish government. For us, the recognition for the rest is a semantic discussion of the Armenian genocide by this country. I would also urge that everyone's interpretation be respected, so that the debates on this matter would be conducted with the appropriate serenity. I don't look in any direction when I say that, but I even want to look in my own direction, if that's necessary. I said earlier that no one is free from party politics, neither are we, nor in the discussion of this resolution. I'm curious how the translators will translate that, but I'm referring to Alice Nahon. Let us all do that, in full respect. When the Prime Minister made his statement, it became clear that he received the support of the entire Parliament. It is in that spirit that I should like to see the discussion of these resolutions continue.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u111	Mr President, we unanimously welcomed the Prime Minister's remarks, but we also have the power and the duty to shoulder our responsibilities. Once again, the Constitution allows us to do so, and we can finally be actors and take a formal act rather than follow a government statement. The majority made another choice by rejecting our text and imposing its own. It must be recognized that the text of the majority is acceptable. That is why my group abstained in committee. Again, and I regret it, without wishing to argue, as it stands, your text does not allow for a formal recognition of this genocide by Belgium and by the House. I would also like to recall that, while I am firmly convinced that the Chamber is not intended to substitute for a judicial body to rule on the legal characterization and consequences of crimes committed against Armenians between 1915 and 1917 or on legal retroactivity, our elected assembly has a duty to ensure the work of memory and to use the appropriate words. It is in this sense that I, together with my colleagues, resubmitted an amendment to the text of the majority which takes up our first and second requests. There will be a nominative vote on the following sentence: "The Chamber considers that the tragic events between 1915 and 1917, for which the last government of the Ottoman Empire is responsible, must be described as genocide". Our second request relates to the fact that the Chamber encourages national courts to rule on the matter. Each of us will therefore have to take responsibility for the vote on this second amendment. Finally, and most importantly, my group fully and forcefully supports any initiative that can contribute to dialogue and reconciliation between the Armenian, Aramaic, Greek and Turkish peoples in all areas. Our proposal thus promoted better mutual knowledge through historical, scientific and cultural information. We also welcome the statements made by the Turkish authorities, which expressed their condolences to the Ottoman Armenians and acknowledged the great suffering they had suffered. Ladies and gentlemen, I conclude. If the past and memory are essential for our democratic societies, it is in the present and in the future that we must record our actions and assume our responsibilities. That is why we place our text in a spirit of support and friendship with the Turks and Armenians and strongly condemn any stigmatization of communities that cannot be associated with acts committed more than a hundred years ago in the Ottoman Empire. Beyond the issue of the Armenian genocide that we are dealing with today, this work must allow us to think more comprehensively. It is in this sense that the PS Group formally calls for our Government to support the call by the European Parliament and the Luxembourg Chamber of Deputies for an "international day of commemoration of genocide" in order to recall the right of all peoples and nations of the world to peace and dignity. The indispensable work of memory cannot have the effect of increasing tensions. On the contrary, it must lead to reconciliation. In this will and despite all the weaknesses in the text of the majority that is before us today, my group will support it. But we also call on all our colleagues to support our two amendments, which will enable this text to truly ensure this recognition and this work of remembrance once and for all.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u112	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Kir, at our sitting of the... [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u113	You go into small political games and tell us that the position of this majority is full of ambiguity and is not clear, but that, fortunately, the PS is there with its amendments to clarify. Here, on 18 June, Belgium recognised the Armenian genocide.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u114	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u115	Raising the debate? You started by raising the debate!. We heard it! To point out to this rostrum, on behalf of a very large political party in this country, that the statements made by the Prime Minister in this rostrum on 18 June, on behalf of the government, on behalf of this country, were not worthy of recognition... But where are you going to stop? Mr. De Roover said so, and I will repeat the exact words that were used by the Prime Minister: "The Belgian government and I believe that the tragic events between 1915 and 1917, for which the last government of the Ottoman Empire is responsible, must be described as genocide." So, yes, Belgium, Mr. President, has recognized the Armenian genocide. And so, with the majority, we wanted to accompany this approach for which the Reform Movement, it is true, produces requests related to recognition.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u116	Mr Ducrame, I cannot understand your motivation. You're saying the government recognized it. What prevents the House from doing so, too? Why do you not accept that we vote on this text and on effective recognition? What's stopping you from doing that? Why? [[Brouhahaha]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u117	Just answer! Why can't the House do that if the government has? Tell us why. Why can't we vote on this? Why don't you want to vote, let the House recognize genocide? Answer us!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u118	I am particularly bored by your denial of a fundamental act for which, personally, I have been fighting for years in the MR and with several parliamentarians. The Prime Minister recognizes, on behalf of the whole country, the Armenian genocide. And what do we hear on the PS benches: "Why doesn't the Belgian Parliament do it either?" You will admit that it is a bit political on your part to arrive with arguments of this order! (Reactions on PS benches) You cannot expect to have a somewhat raised debate, as indicated by your group leader – who is always extremely noted in his speeches – when you deny that the head of government acknowledged the Armenian genocide, on behalf of Belgium, on 18 June. Your behavior does not raise such a debate. You play, on topics as sensitive as these, a fairly petty political card.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u119	Mr Ducrame, first of all, I regret that, for a debate on the genocide of one and a half million people, you have had a political and controversial tone from the outset. I think we deserve a better debate. Mr. De Roover told you half a word. You would have done better to listen to him when he intervened on this. Then I will give you a reason for the first part of your speech. For my group and myself, Belgium has clearly recognised the Armenian genocide. We want to make this clear and consider that the Prime Minister's statement was explicit in this regard on June 18. But nothing prevented and, on the contrary, allowed Parliament to associate itself with this declaration. Parliament, in other words the whole nation through its elected representatives, is associated with a commemoration and a recognition of a genocide that has marked the history of Europe and the world. Mr. Ducrame, we still do not understand why the majority and your group are opposed to the whole nation joining the Prime Minister's statements. This remains, in our view, a significant inadequacy of your resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u120	Mr. Chairman, Mr.Ducarme persists in saying that we deny the remarks made by the Prime Minister in the rostrum. I challenge him to find a single statement from someone in my group who said that. In each speech, both in committee and in plenary, I welcomed the Prime Minister's words. All we are asking for is a strong gesture from the House. At no time did I deny the Prime Minister's words and, on the contrary, I greeted them.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u121	Remember, Mr Ducrame, when on 18 June the Prime Minister declared the recognition by the government and Belgium of the Armenian genocide, all hailed him. We unanimously applauded the Prime Minister on June 18. Belgium has recognized the Armenian genocide. It remains for the House to formally recognize it. A series of amendments were tabled. Why does it have to be recognized by the House after the government, after the Senate in 1998? For the simple reason that the European Court of Human Rights annulled a 2003 Swiss law to punish the denial of the Armenian genocide. In its judgment, the European Court of Human Rights held that Switzerland could not adopt a law penalizing the denial of the Armenian genocide, from the moment that even its national assemblies had not unanimously recognised the Armenian genocide. That is why Belgium, like many other member countries of the European Union or of the Council of Europe, must recognise, through its government and also through its parliaments, the reality of the Armenian genocide in order to participate in this training effect so that, in the end, an international legal body can solemnly recognise the Armenian genocide. That is why, Mr Ducrame, it is important that we vote for recognition by the House of the genocide!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u122	Mr President, I cannot get the impression that we are in the middle of a semantic debate here. My fellow Members from the PS have asked, and I fully support this question, to send a clear signal. In fact, the discussion is about the wording with which we send a clear signal. The wording proposed by the opposition is absolutely a clear signal. I would like to stress once again that this resolution is equally clear to my group, because it cannot be misinterpreted. If the Prime Minister came here to make a statement with which we disagree, there is a problem. There is no problem, de facto the Chamber did not contradict and therefore supported the Prime Minister. I would also like to point out that in the resolution as we have proposed, too, we ask the Turkish authorities to recognise the Armenian genocide. Surely that cannot be interpreted differently than that this Chamber does, implicitly, by adopting the wording in the resolution? I repeat: there are other wordings, and I respect them, but I do not accept that this wording, as it is now being used, is a lack of clarity. It's a different one, but she's flawless, very clear. The statements made by the authors of the resolution are more than persuasive in this respect for those who still have some doubts about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u123	Mr President, I have before me the majority motion for a resolution and the only place where we are talking about recognition is in the recitals, point M, by recalling the Prime Minister's words when he made his statement to the House on 18 June. In the eleven requests made to the government, no reference is ever made to this formal act that could be made or to this recognition. I hope that tomorrow you will approve our amendment, which clearly asks for it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u124	Mr President, I would like to respond briefly because what Mr Crusnière is saying is not correct. On some points in the resolution, the recognition becomes very clear. You refer to one point, to one recital. Please read recital D and recital H. In the operative part, paragraph 7, Turkey is also asked to recognise the genocide. All these points are taken on board.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u125	Mr President, first of all, although we do not agree on a number of issues, I would like to thank Mr Georges Dallemagne for his speech. Why? Because if he is a member of the opposition, that has not prevented him from indicating that the Prime Minister's statement of 18 June amounts to the recognition by Belgium of the Armenian genocide. Of course, he later questioned whether the House would be better assisted in this matter. But he didn't hurry to pour into the political game. In any case, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to have a calmer debate on this matter both in committee and here in plenary. Nevertheless, Mr. Crusnière stated, in his speech in this rostrum, that recognition is not effective, but that he does not deny the remarks made by the Prime Minister. So what he said is contradictory. If I ask myself a little bit about how you approach the debate, Mr Crusnière, it is because you constantly question this recognition. The words you have made are quite serious, since you have stated that the recognition of the Armenian genocide is not a fact, taking into account the statements of the Prime Minister on 18 June, adding that in our motion for a resolution there is no question of the actual recognition of the Armenian genocide. In doing so, you will find yourself facing a statement by the Prime Minister that is worthless and in the face of a motion for a resolution that does not aim at an effective recognition of the genocide. In short, if our motion for a resolution is voted on, Belgium will not recognise the Armenian genocide. If I react so strongly on this issue, it is because I believe that a statement as important as that of the head of government in the rostrum on June 18, which spoke on behalf of his government, must be respected. Indeed, this is an extremely important subject, since it is a matter of justice for a people, of honouring the memory of men, women and children who were exterminated on the orders of a government solely because they were Armenians. Having said that, if I am happy to be part of a majority that has gone to the end of the political act, namely the recognition of the Armenian genocide, I would have liked it to be done more quickly. I would have preferred that this could also be done under governments in the previous majorities. That had not been done, but now it is. In relation to this political act and to what the current majority has done in this respect, I ask for respect. In the context of the motion for a resolution that we are tabling, it is clear, Mr Dallemagne, that our will is to accompany the major act put forward by Belgium and its Government. We repeat in extenso in the recitals, the Prime Minister's statement. This is again not true, Mr Crusnière, because, as my colleague has said, in point 7 of the recitals, we affirm our strong demand for the action taken by the Head of Government, which goes beyond what has been produced by the Government. Indeed, we ask Turkey to recognize this genocide because we believe, in the eyes of the facts, that this recognition is necessary for reconciliation, forgiveness, dialogue and the return to a certain serenity between two peoples of the European continent: Armenia and Turkey. Two countries that we value and respect and that we want to see a course taken. We, who have been following this issue for several months to prepare for this debate, know how much sensitivity at the Turkish and Armenian level remains exacerbated. We all received phone calls from representatives of associations. Here again, our role was not to arbitrate, choose or point at one or the other. With regard to this political choice and to what should be Belgium's moral responsibility for the history of these two countries, we had to do something without stigmatizing or ostracizing. The message was also sent to the Turkish community in Belgium. In this text, it is stated that we do not designate Turkey today: we designate as responsible for the Armenian genocide, not the Turkish people, nor the Turks of Belgium, but a finishing Ottoman Empire that has produced acts that we have recognized today. I have read Mr Maingain's amendment with great attention to the fact that perhaps the 1995 law should be revised and that revisionist acts and negationist words should be punished. I wish we could have done that. As you all know, we are a country, not a court of law. We saw what happened in 2012 in France as part of the Constitutional Court's ruling. The French decision had been quashed because the Armenian genocide, to date, had unfortunately not yet been recognized by an international court. We could have discussed other amendments to extend this recognition to Assyrians and other communities. If, in the future, we can address this issue at this stage, it would complicate things; I think it is Mr Dallemagne who has an amendment to that effect. This debate, even if we commemorate the centenary of the Armenian genocide, remains complicated. Given a certain amount of information that we have been able to gather from the majority and the contacts that we have made, we do not have the full assurance at this stage that we can expand this recognition. We've had a lot of discussions between us. We are very sensitive to this issue. If we did not do that, it is because this debate is obviously and unfortunately linked to a number of issues in our political parties. We have not been able to address the Armenian genocide so frankly for years, because we know that this brings into the debate the question of communalism in our country. This is a regrettable reality. It is a fact that we cannot deny. If it took so long to make this political act, it is probably linked to that. It is also probably for this reason that this debate was not as serene as it deserved. But the act is laid down and that is what is essential.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u126	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the genocide of the Armenians in the aftermath of the Ottoman Empire is an event in which we must stop. That is what we want to do through the resolution before us. We want to remember, commemorate and continue to call for dialogue and reconciliation. Why is it important to remember that event here in the Chamber? It is at the heart of the European project of peace and solidarity not to silence and give them a place. We must build on our European tradition of reconciliation between nations. Creating political will and achieving continued diplomacy are the way forward. In 1915, the Ottoman Empire carried out a genocide on minorities, estimated to be between 300 000 and one and a half million Armenians. This resolution commemorates those tragic events, which included the arrest and liquidation of the Armenian elite, followed by the mass deportation of the Armenian population. A resolution on the Armenian genocide was already adopted in the Senate in 1998. As part of the 100th anniversary, resolutions were also adopted in 2015 in the European Parliament and in the Flemish Parliament, asking, among other things, Turkey to make additional efforts to recognise and commemorate the Armenian genocide. On 18 June 2015, our Prime Minister reaffirmed our country's position and recognised that the events in the Ottoman Empire between 1915 and 1917 were genocide. With this resolution we want to place the dialogue and reconciliation between Armenia and Turkey at the centre. The resolution is therefore not directed against anything or anyone. It's a resolution for something. It is a resolution for reconciliation, for remembrance and for remembrance. We ask the government to join the commemoration of the Armenian genocide in the spirit of European solidarity and justice. We call for crimes against humanity and genocide to be condemned and for the victims to be remembered. We call for Turkey to be encouraged to make efforts in this respect, to recognise the Armenian genocide and thus to pave the way for genuine reconciliation between the Turkish and Armenian people. We also call on both nations to normalise relations, to ratify and implement the protocols on the establishment of diplomatic relations and to cooperate. Such an event from the past deserves its place in memory. Even years later, she demands a great deal of work to achieve a real reconciliation. During the last decade there has been a policy of rapprochement between Armenia and Turkey. That is what we want to emphasise. With political will and continuous diplomacy, we can achieve solutions. The first steps to normalise diplomatic relations between the two nations have already been taken. The ratification of this protocol has so far been delayed. A Turkish-Armenian conciliation committee, the Turkish Armenian Reconciliation Commission, was established and led to the adoption of a series of recommendations. Both Turkish President Erdogan and Turkish Prime Minister Davutoglu expressed their sympathy with the Armenians and acknowledged the atrocities committed. This resolution should therefore really be seen as a moment, as an incentive to take a new step forward. We want to take the next step in the process of reconciliation and drive forward the dialogue between Turkey and Armenia. That should be today's core message.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u127	Mr President, the two main issues at stake in this resolution are the formal recognition by the House of the Armenian Genocide and the abuses committed against the Armenian, Aramaic (Syriac, Chaldean and Assyrian) populations in the Ottoman Empire between 1915 and 1917. It was a genocide and it must be formally declared. As I told Mr.Ducarme, recognition by the House, after the government, is part of the domino effect of these multiple assemblies, which, one after the other, recognize the reality of genocide. Why should the House, after the government, recognize this genocide? It is necessary to build a historic consensus on the reality of this fact. However, this genocide was committed between 1915 and 1917, before the concept of genocide was formally recognized by the UN in 1948. That is why we are faced with a legal difficulty in relation to this concept. How can we recognize this genocide? We will have to multiply the political recognitions in the world as we do here, as will the Prime Minister on June 18. This may one day prompt an international legal body to recognize the genocide of Armenians between 1915 and 1917 in the Ottoman Empire. The amendment that we have tabled is in this direction and the House must also recognize this genocide. Before possible memorial laws concerning this genocide, we must recognize in our country and in our Assembly, in a political way, the Armenian genocide, as the Flemish Parliament did last April, but also the European Parliament and some 20 democratic assemblies around the world. I would like to recall that there was a judgment of the European Court of Human Rights, the Perinçek judgment. This ruling says that the Swiss law of 2003, which punishes the denial of the Armenian genocide, can be annulled because the Swiss Parliament had not formally recognised the Armenian genocide, which is why we must now recognize it. The second issue in this resolution is to help Turkey itself to recognize the Armenian genocide. That is, of course, the central objective. There is no point in recognizing the Armenian genocide if one day Turkey, which is the political heir of the Ottoman Empire, does not recognize it. And it will not be easy because, from Atatürk to Erdogan, the denial of the Armenian genocide and of what happened between 1915 and 1917 is part of Turkish historiography. Today, not a single Turkish history book in Turkish schools mentions the existence of this catastrophe. It'll be a long way. The main difficulty of this negationism is that it is not the negationism of an isolated person, as is the case of the Holocaust negationists, Srebrenica or the Tutsi genocide in Rwanda. The difficulty of this denialism is that it is a state negationism. The denial of the Armenian genocide is part of official Turkish history. Fighting this is extremely difficult. And so, we have to be able to help these Turks. Today, in Turkey, there are democrats who opt for the language of truth, that is, they mean what happened between 1915 and 1917. These people are now at risk of prison. Worse, the heirs of the genocide and genocidal populations, today, live hidden under a borrowing name, under a borrowing religion. There are now Armenians in Turkey who have changed their religion and changed their identity to survive. There are still a few in a few cities and it is these people that we must also think about today. The recognition of the Belgian Government on 18 June and the possible recognition by the House, if you vote for the amendments of the various opposition groups, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, is also to help all those here, in Turkey, Armenia, and throughout Europe and the world, who are trying to fight for dignity and truth in relation to this genocide, sometimes at the risk of their physical integrity. The Turks of today are obviously not responsible for what happened a hundred years ago. That goes without saying. No one will dispute it. However, Mr De Roover, the fact that today's Turkey, today's Turkey, is not responsible for the genocide is clumsy first of all the expectations of this resolution. We discussed it in committee and you caught up with a majority amendment which was voted on by ourselves. It provides for a change in the order of precedence, of importance. For the Greens, and that is what is at stake, the Turkish population of today obviously bears no moral, legal or political responsibility for the Armenian genocide committed a hundred years ago. It's obvious. But the Turkish authorities, official Turkey obviously has a political responsibility. That is what we must aim for today. One day, Turkey must recognize that it is the heir of the Ottoman Empire and that it is the heir of the wrongs that it must bear, as is the case today for Nazi Germany. She has to take care of what happened a hundred years ago.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u128	Mr Hellings, I can only say that I fully agree with you. It is for that reason, to correct any misunderstandings of a certain negationist interpretation, that I went into them in detail in my speech. I fully agree with your interpretation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u129	This plenary discussion marks the end of an unfortunate sequence that began with the unclear and ambiguous role of the government, which was not in Yerevan, Mr Ducrame. Minister Reynders wasn't in Yerevan. The Prime Minister, on June 18, caught up with this false step. Another media sequence was the ambiguous role played by the Socialist Group and the Socialist President of the Brussels Parliament, who refused a minute of silence to the Brussels Parliament. I believe that the role played by Mr Crusnière and other socialist colleagues is catching up with this false step. I would also point out that Belgium has close relations with Turkey. Three years ago, a judicial and police cooperation agreement was signed by the then Minister of Justice, Ms Turtelboom, and the then Minister of the Interior, Ms Milquet. These powerful collaborative arrangements are aimed at gathering information. Belgium has extensive relations with these States, and I would like to make it clear, without obtaining any compensation either for the way in which the Justice and the Police operate or for elements of recognition. We must be able to tell Mr Erdoğan firmly that genocide must be recognized. To do this, we must not put ourselves in a situation of dependence. Today, however, Belgium, by signing these cooperation agreements, has entered into a relationship of dependence. I will conclude with a general conclusion. Turkey, for the Greens, is European. Is that to say that Turkey must now be part of the European Union? Certainly not when we see how it treats journalists and human rights defenders – this has been the meaning of many resolutions tabled here or at the time in the Senate. The recognition by Turkey and the Turkish government of the reality of the Armenian genocide is part of Turkey's path to the European Union. So, like all the rules, like respect for human rights in general, respect for historical truth will bring Turkey to the European Union. Without this, Turkey will never be European.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u130	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I shall speak in four stages. Maybe I'll be a little longer than my colleagues. First of all, I will recall the facts, because since the beginning of our debates, we have never focused on the facts. For the victims' memory, for the traces we will leave in the Belgian Parliament, it is important to go back to what has happened. I will then say why it is important to call these acts genocide and why it is important for Belgium to recognize this genocide. We believe that through the voice of its Prime Minister, Belgium, on 18 June, recognised genocide. I will conclude by saying what our group thinks of the resolution before us and of the various texts that have been debated in committee. On April 24, 1915, a little over a hundred years ago, about 250 Armenian notables of Constantinople were arrested. This happens on a Saturday, at 8 p.m. The operation continues throughout the weekend and for several more days, in the big cities of Turkey. A total of 2,435 Armenian notables are arrested in a few days. They will be tortured, deported and for the most part massacred in the following months. These targeted and planned assassinations signal a genocide that, in just under two years, would cost the lives of 1.5 million Armenians in Asia Minor, two thirds of the Armenians living at the time in the Ottoman Empire, as well as more than 500,000 Arameans (Syriacs, Chaldeans and Assyrians) and nearly 500,000 Pontical Greeks. It should be recalled that 20 years earlier, between 1894 and 1896, 200 000 Armenian Ottoman subjects – to visualize this number, this corresponds roughly to the number of deaths that occurred in Syria in four years – had already been killed, and hundreds of thousands of others stoned, driven out of their land, during the massacres known as "Hamidian massacres". Again, 15 years later, in April 1909, more than 30,000 Armenians were killed in the Adana massacres. But these mass crimes were only the prelude to the killing of 1915 on a much larger scale, planned and executed by the Young Turk government with the aim of eliminating the Christian minorities of the Ottoman Empire in order to establish the ethnic and cultural homogeneity of Turkey. It is the first failures of the Turkish army against the Russians that provide the trigger for this extermination. As early as January 1915, following the defeat in the Battle of Sarikamish against Russia, Turkish power and media accused the 2 million Ottoman Armenians of being in the service of the Russians and suspected them of being a kind of fifth column; they suspected them of treason and conspiracy against state security. The Turkish army, which must retreat from the Russian troops, is multiplying the violence against Christians in the territories it crosses, whether Armenian, Assyrian-Chaldean, Aramaic or pontical. In February 1915, Armenian soldiers in the Ottoman army were disarmed and relegated to working battalions. Most were then executed and, at the end of May, there were no Armenian soldiers left in the Ottoman army. It was at that time, between 20 and 25 March 1915, that the vast plan of extermination was finalized. After the disarmament of the Armenian soldiers in February, the round-ups of 24 April among the Armenian intellectual, political, religious and economic elites came. Then, methodically and brutally, a long series of mass crimes began. The first phase of operations, from April to October 1915, will consist of emptying the six eastern provinces of the Armenian population. As a first step, the paramilitary forces of the Special Organization, exclusively responsible for this task, but also the regular Ottoman forces separate men from their families and liquidate them there, while the elderly, women and children are doomed to hell long forced marches to the camps of Aleppo, Deir ez-Zor in eastern Syria and Mosul in northern Iraq. These death marches take place in desert areas, under the summer sun, in dramatic conditions, without food or water and under the constant threat of robbers. Deportees are decimated at each stage of the convoy by thirst, hunger, exhaustion, but also by the gendarmes in charge of escorting them or by Kurdish tribes and other militiamen recruited for this purpose. Other deportees travel by train, piled up in overheated cattle cars. Hundreds of thousands of them don't survive. On 24 May 1915, the Triple Accord, alerted to the rumours of massacres in the Ottoman Empire, warned the Turkish authorities in a joint statement: "France, Great Britain and Russia will personally hold those who ordered these crimes against humanity and civilization responsible." But that won't change anything. The following months, the rate of deportations will increase sharply. Until the end of this first phase, in October 1915, and taking into account the convoys from Cilicia, in the south, and Cappadocia, in the centre of Turkey, it was 1.2 million Armenians who had been forcibly sent to the deserts of Syria and Mesopotamia. It is then that the second phase of the plan drawn up by the Young Turk government begins, namely the systematic extermination of the 700,000 deportees who survived the marches and who are massed in twenty or so open concentration camps in Syria, plagued by epidemics and living in appalling conditions. Talaat Pasha, the minister of the interior at the time, ordered the liquidation of all the deportees. The telegram, which everyone knows, he sent on 15 September 1915 to Aleppo Prefecture is clear: "The government has decided to destroy all Armenians residing in Turkey. Their existence must be put to an end, however criminal they may be. Age and gender must not be taken into account. Conscience scruples have no place here." The concentration camps then become extermination camps. The members of the Special Organization (OS) redouble their zeal and the executioners essentially carry out the stabbing. In five months, from July to December 1916, 192,750 deportees, according to official statistics, were massacred in Deir ez-Zor. On 24 October 1916, nearly 2,000 orphans were attached to it two by two and thrown into the Euphrates. Upon their arrival in the region in 1917, British victorious forces discovered no more than 100,000 survivors, surviving in frightening conditions. In addition to these miracles, some 300,000 Armenians saved by the Russian advance and some 200,000 inhabitants of Constantinople and Smyrna were probably difficult to suppress in front of so many foreign witnesses and diplomats. As we can see, the crime committed by the Young Turk government, its planning, its modus operandi, the fact that it targets the whole national, ethnic or religious group – the three characteristics can be invoked here – corresponds perfectly to the crime of genocide, as it was theorized by Raphaël Lemkin in 1944. Lemkin, we know him well. He's a professor of American law, well respected by his peers from his time. He has studied the systematic massacre of Armenians since 1933. In 1944 he invented this "genocide" neologism precisely to define the crimes perpetrated by the Young Turk government of the Ottoman Empire against Armenians during the First World War, as well as those committed by the Nazis against Jews and Gypsies during the Second World War. It is the definition of Lemkin, word for word, which is taken up by the General Assembly of the United Nations when it drafts its Charter and Convention for the Prevention of the Crimes of Genocide, adopted by the General Assembly on 9 December 1948. It is this definition that is still used in 1998 in the Rome Statute, the founding act of the International Criminal Court. It is a crime, it must be recalled, which is considered so special, so separate, so dangerous for the future of humanity that it is the only one to be both imprescriptible and, above all, to compel the international community to oppose it by all means. It therefore seems to us fundamental that every human society and of course every European country, a continent where at least three genocides have been committed in a single century, describe this crime precisely to prevent it better, prevent it by all means and pay tribute and reparation to its victims. For our group, every people of the earth makes humanity, and if only one people is missing - a fortiori if it is eliminated by the will of one or more other peoples - it is all humanity that is in danger, it is the future of each and every people, of each and every one of us that is dark. We know all about this genocide of Armenians and other Christians in the East. It is in particular their descendants, but not only, who are again fleeing horror and mass crimes in Syria and Iraq. As part of the commemorations of the centenary of the Armenian genocide, our group had decided, as early as March, to organize a symposium on the question of the recognition of the genocide of the Aramaeans, who were also targeted by the same policy of systematic elimination. Following the conclusions of this colloquium, we tabled a motion for a resolution which is, moreover, still on the agenda of the Committee on External Relations, aimed at extending the recognition of genocide to the Aramaean, Syriac, Chaldeans, Assyrians and Pontic Greeks. It seemed to us at the time, but the rest will show us that this was not very clear, that the recognition of the genocide of Armenians was already an acquired fact, in particular by the resolution of the Senate and that, therefore, it was only necessary to extend this recognition to other Christian minorities who were victims of the same horrors. I recall that in our Parliament - House and Senate - no fewer than twelve texts have dealt with this issue over the past twenty years. These texts include that of the Senate, which is often cited, but the resolution that was adopted by the House's Committee on External Relations in 2003 is usually forgotten. However, this text was adopted unanimously and it is very clear that it asks to declare, by means of a government decision, that Belgium publicly recognizes the genocide of which the Armenian people were victims in 1915. Unfortunately, this text could never be adopted in plenary because the Chambers were dissolved a few days later. This is regrettable because its wording was clear and unambiguous. But what was apparently possible in 1998 in the Senate, in 2003 in the House, became much more complicated today. In order to be convinced of this, it will have been enough to hear from the Minister for Foreign Affairs at the plenary session of 23 April on the topical question raised by our colleague Mr Maingain on the commemoration of the Armenian genocide in Yerevan. This is where ambiguities and approximations arise. It was clear that the Belgian government still did not recognize the Armenian genocide. The minister mentioned in his reply "the need to clarify the suffering that has been suffered during these massacres". He said that "it does not seem appropriate for him to have other bodies substitute for the judiciary" concerning the classification of genocide, again speaking of important massacres. This is where all the ambiguity begins - it is a pity that Mr Ducrame is no longer present - and the need to clarify the situation today. In the face of such a response, devoting a real step backwards to the 1998 Senate and the 2003 House, we felt it was essential to clarify things again. The CDH has tabled a new motion for a resolution on the recognition of the Armenian genocide by Belgium this time. By formally recognizing the Armenian genocide, Belgium joined more than 28 states or national parliaments that have already done so, such as the European Parliament 28 years ago. France, Austria, the Vatican, Germany, Poland, Italy and the Netherlands, almost all our neighbours, followed. The CDH Group also took advantage of the fact that our initial proposal to extend the recognition of genocide to the Aramaeans was put on the agenda of the Committee on External Relations on 16 June - two days before the Prime Minister's statement - to table a series of amendments aimed primarily at including in this text the recognition by Belgium of the Armenian genocide. This did not yet seem to be the case, or more so, in the light of the statement made by the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Among these amendments, we indicated that the House was convinced that genocide had occurred between 1915 and 1917. I would like to point out that all the other opposition groups - PS, sp.a, Ecolo-Groen and FDF - have agreed to co-sign these essential amendments. I thank them very much. But the majority groups, who had also been invited to co-sign these amendments, did not wish to join. It was then that the sequence was curiously accelerated. Two days after these amendments were tabled in committee, two members of the majority, Mr. De Roover and Mr Dewael suddenly question the Prime Minister in plenary session. I would remind you that the majority, however, told us in the press that the debate would not take place in Parliament before the end of the year. And the Prime Minister then responds to my two colleagues, in a millimetred statement, that his position is known and unequivocal. He believes that "the tragic events between 1915 and 1917, for which the last government of the Ottoman Empire is responsible, must be described as genocide. This is the position of the Belgian Government." We did indeed welcome this historic declaration. Unfortunately, the Prime Minister believes that it is also necessary to clarify that "it will be up to national or international courts to decide on these matters". It is well known that there will never again be any national and certainly no international jurisdiction competent to try a genocide that occurred a century ago and where the executioners have long passed away. We know that. Going to introduce such a statement into the Prime Minister's mouth or into resolutions, it is well known that today it does not make sense and that no jurisdiction will ever again have jurisdiction to try such genocide. In fact, it is not necessary for courts to rule on such crimes to qualify as genocide. The 28 states I was talking about earlier, or the 28 national parliaments that recognized this genocide, did not need this to formally and symbolically appropriate the conclusions of the entire community of historians, themselves based on a multitude of documentary evidence and testimonies. Furthermore, as Professor Eric David, President of the Centre for International Law of the ULB, whom I had invited to this symposium in March, explains, the fact that the Convention against Genocide was adopted in 1948 does not prevent us from characterizing old facts today in terms of a contemporary definition. Thus it is he who speaks: "We can say today that the massacre of Saint Bartholomew in 1572 was a genocide since the Protestants were killed as Protestants. Nor should we forget that, as early as 1919, court martial trials were held in Constantinople occupied by the allies and elsewhere in the country. On 16 December 1918, the Turkish Liberal government, which succeeded the unionist government, decided to set up commissions of inquiry for the investigation and trial of the massacres of Armenians, as well as the search for responsibility for entry into war. Having fled in 1918, the main perpetrators of the genocide were then sentenced to death in absentia, among other things for the extermination of an entire people constituting a separate community." It was a Turkish court that found those responsible on these grounds, which are therefore grounds for genocide. "The treaty signed in 1920 between the Allies and the new government of the Ottoman Empire also provided for the judgment of those responsible for the genocide. However, after the victory of the Kemalist forces, the trials were suspended in 1921 and a general amnesty was declared in 1923." Since then, we have witnessed a real state negationism, as my colleague Hellings reminded us earlier. I come back to our parliamentary process today. Speaking of the Prime Minister, Mr. De Roover echoed the statement that it was appropriate, in this context, to table a motion for a resolution calling on the government to continue to actively follow these issues. So finally comes to our benches, after many detours and many versions, the text that we are debating today and whose press tells us – and other colleagues have confirmed just now – that Ankara would have played an increasingly strong role in the elements of language: the motion for a resolution on the commemoration of the centenary of the Armenian genocide. This text is disappointing. We all know that in reality. Don't dislike Mr. De Roover, the Flemish Parliament's text is much clearer: the Flemish Parliament recognizes the 1915 genocide. There was no need to refer to the government, the Flemish Parliament was precise in this regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u131	Mr President, I would like to point out to Mr Dallemagne that the text was approved in the Flemish Parliament for the events of 18 June. At that time, the Armenian genocide was not recognised. The Flemish Parliament did. We believe, but now I repeat, that is what happened to the Prime Minister's statement. I would like to point out that, for purely chronological reasons, you cannot compare the Flemish Parliament's resolution with this one.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u132	Mr. De Roover, you don't convince anyone. Many countries, both through their parliament and government, have recognized this genocide. The fact that Parliament formally joined the government was highly desirable so that there was no ambiguity. We must not say that this is a particular political group, but that it is the whole nation, through its parliament, that recognizes this genocide. You are well aware that this would have been far more powerful than the Prime Minister's recognition, which is valid for us, but which is much less strong than if it had been associated with the recognition of the entire nation of such a mass crime. Another element of astonishment in this resolution is the arrangement which provides for "recognizing that from a historical and moral point of view Turkey today cannot be held responsible for the tragedy experienced by the Armenians of the Ottoman Empire". This statement shocked the descendants of the victims as it amounts to absolve the Turkish State of all responsibility. It is a nonsense on the political level (the continuity of the state) and on the historical level, which will be used by the negationists to set aside any request for reparation and restitution. I want to be clear because I've heard this and this from amalgams or intent trials. Asking Turkey to assume its responsibilities, as was asked of post-war Germany, very clearly and unambiguously to successive governments, will never mean that the Turkish citizens of today, as well as the Belgians of Turkish origin, are responsible and even less guilty of what happened a hundred years ago. There could of course not be any doubt in this regard. The children of the victims are victims, the children of the executioners are not executioners. On the other hand, and on another aspect, the majority's motion for a resolution envisages extending Belgium's recognition of the Armenian genocide to the Aramaic (Syriac, Chaldeans, Assyrians) and to the Pontic Greeks. This would have made it possible to incorporate into the majority text this important provision, which is already recognized by at least five States. The amendment caused interest or tacit approval in committee, but finally, for reasons I do not understand, the majority preferred to evade. For us, the extension of the recognition of genocide to all the groups that have been victims of it is necessary in order to respect the reality of historical facts, to facilitate the necessary pedagogy among the Belgian population and to pay real tribute to the innocent victims. Indeed, as the historian Joël Kotek of the Free University of Brussels, who is one of the best experts in Belgium on genocides, said at our conference on 25 March: "The history books ignore the fate that was also reserved for them. Ignorance of some disputes it with the negationism of others. It is a matter of remedying this injustice as soon as possible. A forgotten genocide is a double punishment for the victims and a double suffering for their descendants. The oblivion assassinates the dead a second time." On this point and on each of the four points I mentioned, Mrs Vanessa Matz defended our text in committee and tabled amendments to the majority text. She preferred to reject them as a whole, not wanting to change the difficult and weak agreement that she had reached. At the same time, the CDH joined the process initiated by Mr. Maingain. Through his bill, amending the Act of 23 March 1995 to punish the denial, minimization, justification or approval of the genocide committed by the German socialist national regime during the Second World War, he intends to include the criminalization of the denial of the genocide of Armenians, Arameans and Tutsi. We have also tabled in committee a co-signed amendment which has been rejected. With regard to the examination of these texts and amendments, I would like to thank Mrs Matz in particular, who agreed to replace me with conviction and talent on 7 July. My group has therefore decided to table three of our amendments again in plenary because they bring essential clarity to the resolution and consolidate its scope. This is the insertion of a statement in which the Chamber recognizes the genocide and the modification of the recognition of non-responsibility granted to Turkey and the extension of the genocide to the Aramaic (Syriac, Chaldeans and Assyrians) and to the Pontic Greeks. The Armenian and Aramaic genocide was the first genocide of the twentieth century. Not least because he remained unpunished, he inspired and paved the way for the following genocides and massacres, among other things with regard to the modus operandi that are repeated in a sinister manner. Rafles, cattle wagons, death marches, deportations, concentration camps, ethnic cleansings, extermination camps, this was reviewed in 1940. In this context, I would like to say that if Germany is today a great soothing and respected power, even if it may be controversial by certain aspects, it is also because it has been able to face its darkest hours. She was able to recognize the facts and her responsibilities. The Germans were thus able to advance history and reconcile with their victims. I am convinced that Germany owes its status as an influential great power in the world not only to its economic vitality but also to its ability to take full responsibility for its past crimes. I hope that the whole debate over the past few weeks, despite its uncertainties and inadequacies, will really allow the present Turkey to finally look at its past as it is, however cruel it may be, and on this basis to recognize the reality and scale of the genocide perpetrated in 1915 and 1916. Indeed, it is confrontation with history, memory and responsibility that grows a nation and gives it respect and strength to approach the future calmly. There can be no real reconciliation without justice. I hope that this will allow Armenians and other Christian minorities who are victims of this genocide to finally obtain this moral recognition on the part of our country and the reparation, legitimately so important to them, so that they will no longer be victims of this double punishment, which is the oblivion or, worse, the negation of the genocide that they have had to endure in the most terrible way. I hope that this will allow the Turks and Armenians to finally achieve a renewed dialogue, a constructive dialogue that they have initiated, certainly, but in a very modest way today, and pacified for both sides. I hope that this will enable Belgium and all of Europe to continue to continuously consolidate our preventive and repressive instruments for mass crimes, war crimes, crimes against humanity and crimes of genocide. Let us not forget that very little time ago, in a period of peace in Europe, we were too long inactive in the face of the genocides that were taking place in Rwanda in 1994 and in the former Yugoslavia in 1995. In both cases, I was at the first lodges. I was a doctor, I treated the victims, I screamed to stop these massacres. We all knew what was going on then. We didn't stop those massacres in time. Today, history repeats itself once again with the destructive madness of Daesh in Syria and Iraq, at the very places where so many Armenians and Aramaeans were massacred in 1915 and 1916. Again, Eastern Christians are the victims of the violence and persecution of the so-called Islamic State, which is seeking to eradicate them permanently, they hope, from the region. But Daesh does not only attack Christians in the East. All minorities are targets. Among them are the Yezidis. In this regard, a United Nations report, published last March, mentioned that these attacks by Daesh against this Yezidi minority could constitute genocide, as the Islamic State does not hide and has implemented its intention to destroy the Yezidi as a religious group. And yet, we, the international community, attach so little importance to this, and we are doing so little in this area. I hope that, at least this time, we will not wait a hundred years to recognize the nature of the crimes committed there today and that we will do everything in our power to defend these populations and to welcome the survivors if necessary. Without that, today's debate would lose a significant part of its raison d'être. For if the just recognition and qualification of the sufferings of the past is a moral, historical and political obligation, it is also because it is on this basis that we can better combat the suffering and the current threats. Therefore, in view of these elements, Mrs Matz and I will abstain, on behalf of the cdH group, in the vote. Nevertheless, the cdH group will vote in favour of the majority motion for a resolution. Our overall favourable vote is intended to show that, for us, there can be no doubt about Belgium's recognition of the Armenian genocide and the importance of its commemoration. The CDH has been very long and remains very active on these issues, with clear and well-known positions. That doesn't change today. As soon as we return to parliament, we will seek to supplement the provisions contained in this motion for a resolution, on the one hand, by extending recognition to the Aramaic (Syriac, Chaldeans, Assyrians) and the Pontic Greeks, and, on the other hand, by amending the law on negationism so that it also provides for sanctions in the event of the denial of genocide committed by the government of the Ottoman Empire as well as against the two other genocides beyond the Shoah, the one against the Tutsis in Rwanda and – it is often forgotten – against the Bosnians of Srebenica. To this end, we will have consultations with all the democratic political groups, because it is a subject that must bring us together. In the face of barbarism, I know that, ladies and gentlemen, beyond our differences, we share the strong conviction that mass crimes, a fortiori genocides, deserve us to come together to prevent and prevent them.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u133	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, after this long but fascinating speech by Mr Dallemagne, I can be brief. I'll be brief, too. If a politician promises that, hold on to your breaks, but I'll be brief. Colleagues, on 1 October 2014, we tabled a resolution on the issue outlined in detail by Mr Dallemagne. That resolution was not dealt with until the majority took the initiative to table similar resolutions. In the meantime, I am well aware of the parliamentary plowing in this matter. I will not suspect any political games in this, but I know there are sensitivities, Mr De Roover. There are sensitivities among the various parties, on the one hand, because many parties have supporters who might find it difficult to adopt resolutions such as these. On the other hand, there are geopolitical interests. Mr De Roover, you will remain the atlantist you have always been. Turkey is still an important partner in the geopolitical strategy for some, so we need to save Turkey and the Turks a little bit. Nevertheless, we can assume that the facts described brilliantly by Mr Dallemagne can be regarded as genocide. I believe that's what each of you does. The question is whether we do this explicitly or implicitly. The majority want to do so implicitly. It is hiding behind statements by the executive, who said that it regards the facts that were then committed as genocide. The opposition rightly states that it is not because the executive says so, that the nation is bound by it. I believe that the nation is bound only by its representatives, by its representatives, by its Parliament. It is either Parliament or parliaments that have to take responsibility for this. There was a bit of a laugh earlier about the fact that the Flemish Parliament has taken its responsibility in this matter. The Flemish Parliament has played a leading role in this. It has said that it recognises the facts that have occurred at the end of the Ottoman Empire as genocide. What's stopping us from doing that again? You say that the Prime Minister said it was genocide and that this is enough for you. Ladies and gentlemen, that is not enough for us. We must have the courage and the political conviction to characterize these facts as genocide. What's stopping us from doing that? Your resolution is not bad, Mr De Roover. There are some good elements in it, but you're not going far enough. To quote Marx: "Hegel goes well, but upside down." I'd say Peter De Roover's going well, but he's not going far enough. You have some good intentions, good intentions, but you don't go far enough. What is preventing us from adopting a number of amendments tabled by a very constructive opposition in this respect? What is preventing us, as a federal Parliament, from doing what the Flemish Parliament has done in this respect? What is preventing us from recognising the facts so beautifully outlined by Mr Dallemagne as genocide? What's holding us back? I do not understand, unless party politics are played here or geopolitical caution is observed. Once again, in the resolution I tabled together with my fellow Members, perhaps we went a step too far. We immediately asked the Turkish Government and the Turkish people to recognise the facts we are dealing with here as genocide. However, we cannot do that until we, as a nation, have recognized those facts as such. Who recognizes these facts as such? Not the executive, but, I think, this Parliament. Une fois nüsest pas coutume, I am in very bad company here, on the left, with Mr Maingain, with the cdH, not my political friends. For once, however, they are right. I call on you to support these constructive amendments. In this way, the Federal Parliament remains credible in this story.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u134	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, "humanity cannot live with, in its cellar, the body, the corpse of a murdered people" (Jean Jaurès, in the French National Assembly, 1897). As our colleague Mr Dallemagne pointed out, who has just made a remarkable speech recalling the historical facts, at the time, the Armenian question occupied the consciences in Europe, following the first collective assassination, under the sultanate of Abdülhamid II, of two hundred thousand Armenians. Why does this phrase of Jean Jaurès still keep its full relevance? Because it invites us to recognize that the Armenian genocide, of which there is not today a specialist of history to deny its reality, remains a political and controversial subject, where interests, often geopolitical, come to interfere in order not to admit this historical fact. It is true that one can already regret the attitude of US President Obama, who, in the election campaign, had declared himself in favour of the recognition of the Armenian genocide, but who, for geopolitical reasons easily guessed, left it once elected. Is that a reason why, in our country, as in other Member States of the European Union and other democracies, we do not have the courage and the will to fully recognize the Armenian genocide? Mr Dallemagne was right to say that the trouble arose when, following my question of topicality to the government and, in particular, to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Mr Didier Reynders, the latter gave us the official speech – of which he was not the first bearer, I acknowledge, in the parliamentary and governmental history of our country –: "without condemnation by an international or national court, no recognition or no qualification of the events of 1915 and 1916 as constituting genocide". There will never be more condemnation by an international court of the perpetrators of these acts, nor will it be possible to have the historical responsibility of the then Ottoman Youth-Turks regime established by an international court. The legal argument that may be relevant, in the light of recent events following the genocide, as we have seen in Rwanda, cannot be accepted in the case before us today. There can only be political recognition, but with a desire to draw legal consequences, in particular to criminalize the denial of genocide. I will return to that point. The true will to recognize genocide today is not in the search to give us a good conscience, nor to condemn the Turkish government, but to be alongside those who in Turkey had the courage to assert that they recognized the Armenian genocide. Those who have had this courage in Turkey are the same people who have the courage to claim major advances for democracy in this country. It is true that, today, we are calling for the House of Representatives to have that will, because we hope that the House of Representatives' unanimity can be heard beyond our borders, especially by those who, in Turkey, have the courage to take on this message. Is it worth recalling that the great Turkish writer, Nobel laureate, Orhan Pamuk, was criminally prosecuted because he had the courage to acknowledge, in 2005, in a statement to a Swiss daily, the reality of the Armenian genocide, even though the prosecution was subsequently abandoned following international protests? Is it worth recalling that in January 2007, Hrant Dink, editor-in-chief of the Armenian magazine of Istanbul, Agos, and principal promoter of the recognition of the genocide in Turkey was murdered, and that as a result of his assassination, more than 100,000 people gathered in Istanbul to say that they were all Armenians? How could we remain indifferent to this collective awareness which is in the honor of the Turkish Democrats? It should be recalled that in 2008, Turkish intellectuals launched a petition under the title "We ask for their forgiveness", a petition that will be highly echoed in Turkish intellectual circles. The text says: "My conscience cannot accept that one remains indifferent to the Great Disaster that the Ottoman Armenians suffered in 1915 and that one denies. I reject this injustice and, for my part, share the feelings and sorrows of my Armenian sisters and brothers and I ask for their forgiveness." This text collected – an unprecedented event in Turkey – thousands and thousands of signatures from Turkish intellectuals, academics and artists on the very day of its launch. So, yes, it is because there is this collective awareness in Turkey itself that we are called to be alongside those who have the will to do so. And that is where I think we need to speak clearly and say that this political will must be accompanied by legal effects. That is why I have proposed that the scope of the 1995 law on the criminalization of negationism be extended. I know that there is a tendency among some historians, we have already discussed it with Marcel Cheron – Pierre Vidal-Naquet is of this tendency – to say that it is not for the legislative and even judicial authorities to sanction history by penal provisions. Take Rémond, another French historian who made a similar statement with an exception, he said, for the Shoah. In fact, since we have committed ourselves to punishing the Holocaust's negationism, we cannot make any distinction and difference of treatment with other negationisms that relate to other genocides. That would be legally and morally unjustifiable. And why should negationism be penalised? I know that there is a case law of the European Court. I have explained in committee how it could evolve according to the will of the parliamentary assemblies, and in particular the unanimity of all the parliamentary assemblies representing the member states of the Council of Europe. Why should negationism be criminalized? Because today, in a number of states, those who have the courage to defend our democratic values are being pursued. Because today, in Turkey, those who recognize the Armenian genocide are the first to be criminally prosecuted. It is therefore a very negation of what the law must protect, that is, our essential values. It is for this reason that there has been a political and legal will at some point to criminally criminalize negationism, so that there is no inversion of values in disregard of historical truth. That is true, I regret that the majority did not want to open the debate on the bill that I tabled with the assistance of my colleague, Mr Dallemagne. I hope that we will be able to resume this debate quickly, without waiting for the constraints and actions that should be taken on the occasion of Europalia Turkey. I hope that we have enough pride in this parliamentary assembly not to wait for the outcome of an event, which is also very much awaited and quite appreciative, so that we can decide for an essential legal debate on the criminalization of negationism. But I cannot say too much, ladies and gentlemen, and I agree with the voice of others, unless we have the capacity to go beyond the momentary assessments of political circumstances to have the firm will to say that negationism is only the most extreme achievement of the genocidal act itself, if we do not have this will, then we will be the murderers of memory!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u135	Ladies and gentlemen, the genocide that took place against Armenians 100 years ago in the Ottoman Empire is a fact that must be recognized. We must be able to say loudly that this is genocide. Belgium therefore has this duty. I think the case is clear enough and it is described quite irrefutablely in many writings (Robert Fisk, Jacques Pauwels and many others). The Armenian genocide of 1915 is a reality and I would like to point out in this connection that in Turkey itself there are left-wing parties that recognize this fact and believe that the recognition of genocide would create the conditions for a rapprochement between the Turkish and Armenian peoples. That is an important point. As several colleagues have said, there is an ambiguity in this resolution: why does the House not clearly recognise this genocide? Why are we content with a statement by the Prime Minister in terms of recognition of the Armenian genocide? Despite several solicitations, Mr.Ducarme did not give a convincing answer. Is this a way of saying that for the majority a government statement is superior to what Parliament might say? I do not see where the majority could draw such a statement from a legal point of view. It seemed to me that all the powers emanated from the Nation. Indeed, I think that this chamber should really make a clear statement on the Armenian genocide. One point I have to stress is that this debate should not fuel divisions in Belgium or at international level. I am not going to develop the international aspects. If we take the case of Belgium, I fear that some political tendencies may have this desire to use the question to spread the division by pinning the question, without leading the debate calmly but pointing to discriminated communities in our country. This would lead to the withdrawal of the Turkish community. I don't think the point should be that one. I think that Belgium should also sweep in front of its door. In relation to this debate on the risk of stigmatization of a community and while clearly reaffirming that Belgium must recognise genocide, it would be hypocritical and Belgium would lose some credibility if it did not analyse its own history more convincingly and self-critically. I will recall the case of Congo under the leadership of the King of the Belgians in the late 19th and 20th centuries. It is obviously difficult to count the victims of the abuses that took place at the time, and I will not comment on the characterization of the crimes that were committed under Leopold II, but I think that Belgium would indeed gain credibility if it were to sweep in front of its door. According to Professor Léon De Saint Moulin, a Belgian demographer at the University of Kinshasa, there was a huge decline in the number of Congolese between 1880 and 1920, a decline of 5 to 10 million Congolese, or between 33 and 50 per cent respectively of the population. That is the kind of thing that we would also like to hear on occasion, for example, of the fiftieth anniversary of the independence of the Congo, but that has not been heard. I do not refer to what happened at the time as a qualification, but I believe that Belgium would gain credibility. This would also provide more serenity and a spirit of reconciliation within Belgium. I believe that the role of the United Nations in genocide is recognised. Point 5 of the resolution mentions "to advocate for timely prevention and effective suppression of genocide and crimes against humanity to be among the major priorities of the international community and the European Union." I would like to hear that the European Union has a role to play, but I would not like to avoid the essential and principal role of the United Nations in this area under the 1948 UN Convention on the Prevention and Punishment of the Crime of Genocide. I believe that the United Nations is a key player in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u136	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, we have had a good debate in committee for three and a half hours. Even now we have been working for over two hours. It is difficult, I will not try to say anything new and not repeat it. I would just like to point out that our group in committee voted in favour of the text proposed by Mr De Roover and his colleagues, but that something was still eating. We felt that the text, which we will adopt tomorrow, could be even better, as far as we are concerned, if it were to be as broad as possible. Even after today's debate, I have still not understood why there was no willingness on the part of the majority of my fellow Members, who supported the text proposed by Mr De Roover and his colleagues, to include in the text the recognition of the Armenian genocide. For the sake of clarity, it would have been good if this recognition had been clearly stated in the text. I confirm that all my fellow Members who have argued in committee, with amendments, have acknowledged the importance of the Prime Minister's statement for a more precise and clearer text, but I think they were right in arguing that the text would be much better and stronger if Parliament had clearly recognised the Armenian genocide. The terminology could be discussed, but it had to be clearer than in this text. I still haven't understood why the majority didn't want to take that hand. We thought that the text could also be improved on a second point. There was an amendment by my colleagues from the cdH, which extended the resolution. I am keeping it simple from the Armenians to the Arameans and the Pontic Greeks. I think it's painful. We all probably agree in the Chamber that at least some kind of treatment was given to the Arameans and the Pontic Greeks. It would have shown some fairness and knowledge of the file if we had taken the Armenians, the Arameans and the Pontic Greeks in one and the same movement. We will be able to vote on the amendment tomorrow. There are also amendments tabled by colleagues from the opposition who propose a clear recognition of the genocide by Parliament. We have already voted on this in committee, and we will also be asking for the vote on these amendments tomorrow. The result of these votes will not affect our final vote, because we will approve the resolution. Let this be an appeal to my fellow Members of the majority, because I think I can see that this majority unfortunately has a bad habit. It used to be a tradition in the Committee on External Relations to find out about important issues across the borders of opposition and majority. We could have found each other here with a little good will from both sides. I regret that this has not happened. Finally, I would like to join what Mr Maingain said, including in committee. In committee, Mr Maingain tabled an amendment calling on the Belgian Parliament to also begin the debate on the criminalisation of negationism in relation to the genocide of Armenians. I repeat that, as far as we are concerned, the Arameans and the Pontic Greeks would have liked that. I regret that the majority voted against this amendment. They have a point if they argue that this has not yet been fully explained in law, but I do not think that this should prevent us from including in a resolution a passage calling on the Chamber to address that problem as well. I repeat that we believe that the resolution could have been even better on these three points than it already is. We hope that the amendment tabled by Mr van Groen, who gives a much better title to this resolution, will also be adopted tomorrow. I hope that in the vote on the amendments tomorrow there will be some goodwill and some understanding for the positive and constructive proposals of my fellow Members from the opposition. The sp.a will in any case approve the resolution, but we continue to hope that we can make it even better and stronger.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u137	Mr President, I realize that in my speech I did not say that the Ecolo-Groen Group will vote in favour and hope that one of the amendments tabled, including by our group, calling for the recognition of genocide by the House, will be approved. If I didn't, I'd abstain.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u138	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The meeting's over. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u139	21 Benoit Hellings cs (1207/3)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u140	The vote on the amendments that have been tabled and on the whole of the proposal will take place later. The vote on the reserved amendments and on the whole proposal will take place at a later stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u141	Proposals tabled by: Proposals submitted by: - 1226: Sarah Claerhout - 1056: Georges Dallemagne - 1091: Gwenaëlle Grovonius, Stéphane Crusnière, Philippe Blanchart, Dirk Van der Maelen, Georges Dallemagne. I propose that a single discussion be devoted to these three motions for resolutions. I propose that you devote one discussion to these three motions for resolutions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u142	The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1226/6) The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1226/6) The title was changed by the committee to "Proposal for a resolution on the conflict-of-conflict-of-conflict-of-conflict-of-conflict-of-conflict-of-conflict-of-conflict-of-conflict'. The title has been changed by the committee to "proposal for a resolution on 'conflict mines'". The meeting's open. The discussion is open. Mr Peter Luykx, rapporteur, referred to the report.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u143	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the history of this resolution is comparable to that of a well-known insectivorous climbing bird, the cuckoo! This bird has the strange way of laying its eggs in the nest of others, a bit like when the PS, through me, asks as a priority for a resolution to be put on the agenda allowing for the obligatory traceability of conflict minerals and that the majority, like a cuckoo, take advantage of it to table a new text that has the appearance of the socialist resolution but which, in fact, proposes above all and above all to allow companies that make maximum profits on the back of human rights, to pursue their business. The history of this resolution also resembles a history of cinema, that of "Flying above a cuckoo nest" with guest-stars the representatives of the MR group who obviously have some personality problems, adopting courageous positions at the level of the European Parliament which unfortunately are not assumed in the Federal Parliament. It's the story of the son killing the father!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u144	Mrs. Grovonius, you clearly have literary abilities. That's very nice. Congratulations. We have also discussed in detail in committee your interpretation of chronology. The fact that groups are still working on the matter, looking into it and wanting to do something with it has nothing to do with what you are describing. I think that's a very strange interpretation. It is also a very important matter. It is therefore very important that the interest of other groups is there.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u145	It was so important, Mrs Claerhout, that you waited until the end of the session to table a text. It was so important to you that you didn't write it until a few days ago. That's why it was so important to you. Is that actually it? I didn't get it very well. I'm not worried, you're right, I have good editorial skills and no difficulty with that. In any case, they are much better than yours, when reading the text you have submitted.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u146	Why is it so important today that Parliament asks the government to follow a line on conflict minerals? We have had a long debate in committee and no one in this House is supposed to ignore the fact that, following Mr Michel's amendment, there is a dialogue between the Council, the Commission and the European Parliament. What we are doing here is trying to refine, to push our government, a member of the Council, to follow Mr Michel's line. Actually, we're trying to match the father with the son. Let us hope that the Holy Spirit does its work, Madame Claerhout!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u147	When I see that the MR did not even co-sign Mrs Claerhout's proposal, I have some doubts about that, Mr Hellings. But we will come back to all of this later. I will now talk a little about the resolution that the PS has tabled. The text of the PS began with a rather simple but terrible observation: in the eastern part of the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Mr Flahaux, the illegal trade in minerals by rebel armed groups has, for more than fifteen years, been a major factor in intensifying and prolonging conflicts and the suffering of local populations. At the global level, many other areas are affected by this juicy trade, which is all the more profitable as international demand continues to grow due to our intensive use of new technologies (smartphones and other laptops). The European Union accounts for no less than 25% of the world market for imports of so-called conflict minerals, i.e. "3 T" (tin, tungsten and coltan) but also 15% of gold, which represents a commercial volume of not less than €28.5 billion. Given the importance of this market, the European Union must have a real leverage effect in the fight against these conflict minerals. Unfortunately, for many years now the European Union, under pressure from the EPP and ALDE in particular, has been slow to put in place measures aimed at the responsible supply of raw materials. Following the adoption by the United States of the Dodd-Frank law in 2010 and at the request of the European Parliament, the European Commission drew up a proposal for a regulation in March 2014. This proposal for a regulation by the then Belgian Liberal Commissioner was intended to ensure a responsible supply of ore by European companies when they feed in risk areas. However, the Commission then opted for a voluntary self-certification scheme and proposed limiting the scope of the legislation to only 450 importing companies. My group and my colleague Marie Arena had already strongly denounced this scheme at the time. Indeed, these factors made it clear that the European Commission was missing its objective. Given that the OECD's recommendations in this area have existed since 2010 and that very few companies have based themselves on them, we know that there is no hope of changing the situation on the basis of a voluntary measure in the sector, except for those who have fallen into angelism. For my group, given the scale of the stakes behind these minerals, we cannot be content with angelism or half-measures. Colleagues, accountability and ethics should not be a choice but an obligation for the entire chain.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u148	Mrs Grovonius, like me, you attended the hearings in our committee on this issue. I found it very striking at the time that the voluntary control that companies can carry out is apparently a great success, at least for European companies. We have been able to listen, among other things, to Mr Tytgat van Umicore, who himself had developed a very sophisticated system that goes far beyond other rules that one wants to impose. That's a system they voluntarily impose on themselves. You can hardly call that a success.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u149	Mr President, Mr Luykx, I attended the hearings, but obviously we did not hear the same thing. I understand that this system of self-certification affects a very small percentage of trade by these ethical measures. Only 3% of trade is affected. If you consider ethics with 3% of this successful market is enough, you are free to believe it. At the PS, we're a little further ahead of these steps. We want to go much further, which is impossible without a mandatory settlement from the beginning to the end of the chain.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u150	So, Mrs Grovonius, you do not deny that some companies are dealing with this on a purely voluntary basis? That's my point. You rule that out and say it had no effect at all. I'm sorry, we were both there and heard the same thing. Many questions have been asked: will mandatory control have an effect, can it be effective and can it be properly organised? That's what the debate was about. The only real results that are available today are precisely those achieved by companies that implement this system on a voluntary basis.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u151	I would like to refer to those hearings. There it was stressed that many initiatives have already been taken, including from the successful companies. Not only did the representative of Umicore emphasize that. The representative of NGOs also stressed that these initiatives have already taken a very long way. They've been asked to incorporate it. I think that the fact that you are completely destroying it is a strange view of these initiating companies.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u152	Mr Luykx, we are not just here to hear and congratulate companies doing good work. Some of them have already put in place mechanisms, and we welcome them, to prevent certain materials that have been extracted under appalling conditions from being marketed. Our role is not to congratulate these people, but to set up, as politicians, a mechanism that is as plausible, effective and as broad as possible, while taking into account certain economic constraints. In this way, those companies that do not do so today will do so from now on. Members of several Belgian political groups – in any case, of all the French-speaking parties, because I did not follow the debate on the Dutch-speaking side as precisely – of the European Parliament went in this direction through a binding and systematic procedure. We were extremely surprised by the majority's reversal in this regard. We therefore have a role to play in developing credible mechanisms and not just in commending the actors who are already developing them.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u153	Mr Dallemagne, that is indeed true. You're right. We're not just here to congratulate. My point, however, was this. I wanted to nuance Mrs Grovonius's theorem. We shouldn't throw the baby away with the bathwater. Of course, we must look for further steps. However, we must not rule out voluntary monitoring, by dismissing it as a system that would not work. I wished to make that point.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u154	Mr President, one point remains to be added on an ad hoc basis. It seems to me all the more important to implement a mechanism which is mandatory for all companies that it will also protect from any form of unfair competition those who have entered this process on a voluntary basis. I do not see where the difficulty lies, let alone if you highlight the fact that some of our companies are already engaged in a voluntary process of this kind. To what extent does this pose any difficulty? Indeed, we are only protecting them more. In addition, we ensure that all companies are on the same footing and subject to the same types of obligations.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u155	I do not think that Mr Claerhout's proposal precludes compulsory controls. Where do you read that? I will not repeat the whole resolution, nor what the speakers said at the hearings, but we heard at that time that we need to think very carefully so that any regulation would produce results, how we are going to implement it, not only in Europe but also on the ground. The sector itself wants to participate in this. This is a particularly complex issue, where we have raised many questions and put conditions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u156	Mr Luykx, allow me to refer to Motion No 3 of the motion for a resolution. A voluntary mechanism is well mentioned. I do not need to go beyond this to explain how unnecessary it is because, in doing so, it does not impose an obligation on all companies. As far as the implementation on the ground is concerned, I fully agree with you. But be reassured, the text tabled by the PS does not only concern the DRC, but also neighbouring countries, in order to avoid a destabilization of one country from the other. In addition, it provides for accompanying measures. If we refer to the hearings we have had, this text clearly responds to the requests of the NGO sector, namely a mandatory mechanism with accompanying measures. No doubt we did not attend the same hearings! I come back to the text of the Socialist Party of which you do not seem to have read. It is important to draw attention to the need for transparency and due diligence throughout the mineral supply chain for all companies active in the Union. It is at this level that we want to avoid distortions in terms of competition between different companies in order to ensure that the proposed measure at European level, the only coherent level here, can really have an impact on the ground. Indeed, behind this question lies the question of social traceability and information for European consumers. They need to know what the products they buy contain. In this context, only mandatory due diligence – and I insist on that – across the supply chain will really allow consumers to know whether the products they buy come from an ethical and responsible chain or not. It is in order to face these challenges and in opposition to the committee's first draft, that we drafted our text with four clear and maximalist requests, but which remain realistic. The first concerns the introduction of a system of mandatory due diligence from the beginning of the supply chain to the end of the supply chain with respect to conflict minerals. The second objective is to ensure that this obligation is not limited to European companies, but to all companies placing these ores or products containing these ores in Europe, beyond importers. The third request was to ensure that the settlement would take over the definition of a conflict zone, in line with that used by the OECD to ensure global coherence. Finally, plead for a mechanism whose scope can take into account in the future that if a new natural resource feeds into conflict, it can also be covered by the European Regulation. These four requests are fully in line with Mr Louis Michel's amendment. This is an amendment to the proposal for a regulation adopted in the European Parliament on 20 May 2015 to impose on all companies, throughout the supply chain, the obligation to exercise due diligence and an obligation to provide information on their due diligence practices for responsible procurement. As a result of this vote in the European Parliament, which has been confirmed at the level of the Trilogue, some 800,000 European companies could be required to be traceable instead of the 450 000 currently on the basis of the voluntary scheme. From 450 to 800,000, we clearly see the scope of a mandatory device. Importers of ores, smelters and refineries, as well as manufacturers of manufactured products, should now ensure that the minerals they use are not used to finance conflicts. This surprise vote led by my colleagues Marie Arena and Louis Michel in the European Parliament has led to a considerable change in the INTA Commission's initial proposal for a voluntary scheme. It also goes well beyond the original proposal on the scope of the obligation of responsible supply, which initially covered only European smelters and refineries. The regulation voted in the European Parliament is historic because it combines respect for human rights with business. Europe could become, in this context, the pioneer in economic ethics. Following this vote, it was up to us, as Belgian parliamentarians, to live up to this historic position and, in order to do so, to give our Prime Minister a very clear and unambiguous mandate for the next European Council - Prime Minister who, I must remind you, is of the same political colour as the author of the famous amendment. That is why it was essential that a strong resolution, such as ours – I would like to thank Mr. Dallemagne, Van der Maelen and Hellings for their support – adopted by our Assembly in order to be able to stand up to the European Council, faced with the most right-wing forces who dream of only one thing, a reversal of this position of the European Parliament. It was in this context that I updated my text and the majority asked for hearings to be held in order to amend the text on which the hand on the heart, Mr Miller, had agreed to work. These hearings took place. Here, ladies and gentlemen, are some excerpts from them, apart from the NGOs which, without any ambiguity, supported the text of the opposition. I would mention Louis Michel, Member of the European Parliament, who said that "it was better to provide for specific obligations rather than to rely on the goodwill of companies" and Mr Michel to add: "I confirm that the motions for resolutions under discussion are perfectly in line with the reflection of the supporters of the proposal for a European regulation, as adopted on 20 May 2015", while inviting the Belgian Parliament to be part of this ambitious approach. Mr Michel, in the context of this brilliant hearing, also raised the issue of sanctions. Similarly, Mr Michel indicated that the socialist proposal, with some adjustments, was in line with the position advocated by him and Marie Arena at European level. With these hearings and positive opinions on this socialist text, we have therefore come back to committee. And then, to my greatest surprise and I would even say to my greatest disappointment, the majority denied his word and organized his hold-up. In fact, the CD&V had in the meantime and in the last minute, proof that it was a real priority, had a text taken into consideration in plenary session. It was a similar text on the title but certainly not on the content. However, it was on this one that the majority decided to work in committee, rejecting that of the PS group with a back of their hands. The press release of the MR following the vote on the Michel amendment in the European Parliament was clear: "The universal conscience has triumphed over sordid fraternity", we could read. Here, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Miller, it is rather the exacerbated conservatism that has prevailed over Belgium's ambitious position in the fight against conflict minerals. Instead, judge on the basis of a few selected songs from this magnificent CD&V resolution. Recital R. I do not read it; you will find it in the text. Personally and on behalf of my group, I think it's crazy to try not to disrupt a market that exploits people and feeds conflict zones! Frankly, to say that, you should not be bored writing a text! I am sorry, but I cannot accept that "the costs of responsible procurement" are a valid reason for not regulating. On the contrary! Being ethical at a cost, you have to assume it! Indeed, a declared worker over 18 years of age costs more than a child working in the dark. But if I am your text and your proposal, then we should still accept child labour in the textile industry, for fear that these companies will relocate and that it will cost us money! Recital U. New false excuses not to disrupt this shameful trade: the companies will relocate; there will be an additional precarisation of local populations; the conflict risks to move... Let's Admit! But then what are your answers? Don't do anything! Conversely, the PS has anticipated and is proposing a resolution on the DRC and its nine neighbouring countries. It proposes a resolution with an obligation for all companies, even non-European ones, to avoid this unfair competition. Secondly, it proposes a process of accompanying the implementation of the scheme. The PS ensures that, in the context of the current total dependence on these minerals, companies do not have a credible alternative and will therefore be subject to these new obligations. There is therefore no reason to make concessions to human rights. Let's continue the florileg! Let's look at your requests! Request 1: Advocate for a binding regulation but based on the activities of companies, their size and their place in the supply chain. I think maybe you should open your eyes. That doesn't mean anything! Demand 2: exclude the diamond sector, taking into account the importance and...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u157	Mr President, I would like to intervene briefly. Mrs Grovonius, the wording you have just quoted as a difference in the chain and the different ways in which work is carried out, depending on the size of the company and its place in the chain, is yet another point that has been regularly discussed during the hearings. Everyone agrees that one cannot work for the whole chain on a uniform structure and that one must distinguish between them. While I am speaking, I take this opportunity to say that I am shocked by the way you propose things here. You're not being intellectually honest. You have already repeated a number of times that we are proposing to do nothing, while it is very clearly proposed to introduce a certain obligation. We are asking for this to be done in a realistic way. Experts have shown us that there is a lot of difference on that chain. So things have to be dealt with differently. I appreciate your concern. I see you're really concerned about the matter. I don't want to debate that. You must be careful how you represent your opponent's position. You are making a number of unfair points in that regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u158	Mrs Claerhout, I cannot present your text in a different way because, unfortunately, it does not provide for a mandatory process from the beginning to the end of the chain and that is what we condemn it. That's right, you're planning distinctions based on company size but not in a mandatory process. The process remains, for some, on a voluntary basis. I'm sorry or I can't read, but your request 3 clearly states that for downstream companies, we are in a voluntary approach. From the moment you make a distinction of this type, it becomes impossible to have a process that will work. To return to your request No. 2 to exclude the diamond sector in view of the importance and good results of the Kimberley Process, I fully agree with you that there is already a mechanism. But I am perplexed and wonder how much you are inferred to this sector because you feel obliged to talk about it in a text which, in the end, does not concern it at all. But I understand that this sector needs to be constantly reassured.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u159	Mrs Grovonius, we have already had that discussion in committee. We do not want to undermine the already existing Kimberley Process by sticking another process over it. That wouldn't be good. You yourself supported the resolution in the Chamber to strengthen the Kimberley Process. That's why. You may conduct the intentional processes you want, but that is really not credible.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u160	Demand 3, we've already talked about it, but it's the worst because it's the one that makes your resolution absolutely useless.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u161	I thought I would wait until after you, dear Mrs Grovonius, to intervene, but I find that, as they say in good Belgian, too is you veel. By this I mean that here we are in a substantive debate on an extremely important subject and where, beyond this problem of minerals, there is the one of war and also the one that I care about because it is filthy, it is the use of rape for military purposes throughout this region. This is extremely important and we are discussing it in other committees. It's a subject that should bring us together. We can understand that not all of us are always on the same line at the same time, but the goal is to try to find common ground.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u162	Mr Flahaux, your problem is that you are not even on the same line with yourself!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u163	I didn't interrupt you, dear Mrs. Grovonius.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u164	I'm not asking for us to be on the same line.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u165	Do you believe in democracy at all? In that case, the first thing, Mrs Grovonius, is to listen to the other person who is talking. When you understand that, you'll be a little democrat. In the meantime, I think there are lessons you need to take. I know you're not used to that, that in some areas, outside the party, there's no dialogue.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u166	And so, we were talking about the substance before the arguments, right?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u167	I will, of course, mention the substance of the matter in my speech on behalf of my group. My request is simply about form and tone. You're always in the role of a lesson giver. I don't like it. I think you must respect the fact that everyone can have his or her share of truth and that it is important to know how to listen to each other and to be able to accept that one does not necessarily have the truth revealed by itself. You're not an ayatollah. At some point ecologists were called chlorophyll ayatollahs. I would not like you to be called one day the ayatollesse of democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u168	Mr Flahaux, you are right: in fact, we are talking here about geopolitical problems in the Great Lakes region, in eastern Congo, where conflict minerals are illegally exploited, extracted by miners – often children – and then sold to processing companies in Rwanda. It is clear that the ores of conflict today fuel wars in eastern Congo and wars between Rwanda, or allied militias, and the Congolese army. The rapes, of which you have spoken, which are used as a weapon of war are rooted in the geopolitical fact of conflict minerals. The cause of these horrors is the subject of this discussion. Against this, we can take European regulatory measures which will be discussed at the trialogue where the Council, therefore the Belgian government - the son Michel - will have to defend a position. That is the meaning of the resolution that we are voting on. The challenge is that this resolution is strong for the government to stand up for a strong position. You won't be able to fight rape with lukewarm water. Because if we are chlorophyll ayatollahs, you are lukewarm water ayatollahs!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u169	I come back to the substance of Mrs Claerhout's text and her request 3 which is probably the worst because it makes this text completely unnecessary, since it provides for a voluntary approach for downstream companies. It is against the background of the position defended by Mr Louis Michel and welcomed by you, dear colleagues in the MR. I would like to know what is the consistency in all this and how, as elected members of the MR, you can accept such a request. However, Mr Flahaux, my group has given you a chance in committee to avoid adopting such a text. We have re-tabled in committee the amendment by Mr Louis Michel of the European Parliament to show you how much we are seeking consensus. I hope, Mr Flahaux, that, contrary to what happened in committee, you will not vote against this amendment by your own MEP, which we re-tabled in plenary. I would remind you that there will be a nominative vote on this one. In conclusion, I would say that Mrs Claerhout's resolution on conflict minerals – at this stage, it is the only signatory – ensures above all, and above all, that the business as usual continues. Above all, ethics and social and environmental standards should not be detrimental to trade! Above all, we should not prevent our smartphones and other products from being the result of human suffering! It is no coincidence that, in Europe, the EPP has done its utmost to block the adoption of such a regulation. Of course, Mrs. Claerhout, Mr. Miller and Mr. Flahaux, you couldn't say it like that. You have applied a little varnish to give you a good conscience but it does not take long to scratch to discover all the cynicism of the approach and text that is submitted to us today. It is certainly not the amendments that you have tabled and which have been adopted in committee that improve this text. They have nothing to do with Mr Michel's amendments, they are even the opposite. This motion for a resolution is totally hollow and meaningless. It is an impossibility, a real frontal attack on all those who have fought for the adoption of a courageous regulation at European level. Above all, it illustrates how some in this majority are able to deny their words and ensure that in the end, even on such important issues as respect for social norms, human rights and workers, no consensus can be found, but not because of us, because of you! I therefore call on my colleagues in the MR to regroup and adopt the amendment which I re-submitted in plenary, co-signed by my colleagues sp.a, cdH and Ecolo-Groen and which takes over that of Mr Louis Michel. If the European Union really wants to become a major diplomatic actor, it must more than ever achieve genuine coherence between its action for peace and its determination to combat the commercial and industrial activities financing these conflicts. It is only on this condition and with this coherence that we can weigh in this fight against the ores of conflicts which particularly affect the DRC, a major country in terms of our diplomacy and our development cooperation. With the text of the majority, our Prime Minister will have one of the weakest, if not none, mandates in the Council. For all these reasons, my group will vote against the majority text and I wish you good luck with your schizophrenia and the positions of the father and son of the Michel family. You have an amendment on your benches and you have one last chance to make up for it by adopting it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u170	Mr President, in a way, I should like to thank my colleague, Mrs Grovonius.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u171	Then do it!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u172	Realism is much more understandable and acceptable than anything that is excessive. I just heard words like "schizophrenia." It is very serious to use such terms. I didn't know you were a doctor, but I'm finding out tonight. Dr. Grovonius, since you have donations from psychiatrists and psychologists, I'm a little surprised. You remind me of the classical mentality in certain areas of Hainaut, which I know well: "not socialist, no bread". Here, outside of you, no truth. I can't accept it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u173	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u174	I'll talk about Louis Michel later, don't worry. Since you've become "michelians," I'm glad!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u175	The father, but not the son!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u176	After the father, you will come to the son and, finally, to the Holy Spirit. In politics, Karine, you must never say! Maybe one day you'll have a prime minister named Charles Michel in your majority. I would like to go back to the most important part of our debate, namely the ores of conflict. As I mentioned briefly earlier, this issue is extremely serious. Indeed, it is important to break any link between trade in minerals and conflicts, which are the source of multiple abuses and inhuman collateral damage that thousands of men and, above all, women and children suffer in countries such as the DRC – but not only. In view of this dramatic situation, the MR has always focused on efficiency and accountability. The text on which you are called to vote calls for a mandatory regulation on the entire supply chain for tin, tantalum, tungsten, gold and their derived metals, depending on the activity of the companies, their size and place in the chain and for an obligation to inform the downstream companies. It also emphasises a number of important elements related to the establishment of the Regulation, in particular the need for close coordination between Member States in order to maximise transparency and avoid rivalry between export procedures. It is only on this condition that it is possible to ensure that our luxury to us, Westerners, (smartphones, tablets, laptops, automotive and aviation industry), does not generate the misery of the people of the countries rich in minerals. But perhaps I would like to start by referring to the form of the text. It is always important and interesting, and we do not do so often enough in the House, that our work be carried out in synergy with the work of the European Parliament. Since the reform of the European institutions, we could, and we do very little in the Belgian Parliament, as opposed to the Swedish Parliament, set the red light or the orange light as soon as a text is tabled in the European Union. The various national parliaments can act. That is why there are European coordinators in the various committees of our Parliament. There is a great deal of talk about the democratic deficit in the European Union. We must therefore welcome the fact that, in this area, we have finally dealt with an essential and important issue which, in some way, strengthens the legitimacy of European policies. We see it all the time and we should do it systematically. We saw it last week when our Prime Minister finalized the debate on the problem of the Greek crisis. We will have it at the beginning of the year on the conclusions of our hearings on the Transatlantic Treaty. We had it in June on European defence, a case in which our group leader Denis Ducrame was very involved. It therefore seems to me very important to continue this positive dynamic in which our Assembly deals with issues on which the European Union must take decisions. We do not have the method or coercive mandate issued by the legislature to the executive, but we give by voting the resolution guidance to our Foreign Minister and our Prime Minister as well as support for the Belgian position that will be defended in the European Council at the "trilogue". For Mrs Grovonius, in particular, the "trilogue" is the Commission, Parliament and the Council of Ministers. We hope that an ambitious and realistic European regulation will emerge from this discussion. We will follow the conclusion of this case very closely. I would point out to Mrs Onkelinx, who may also have to have a course on the European institutions, that in this area we have an obligation to operate in the European Council unanimously. And God knows how great the difficulty will be! Dr. Grovonius, a specialist in psychiatry and schizophrenia, discusses the shortcomings we would have within the MR. But I fear that some ruling socialist parties in the European Union will be the first to block a firm decision on this issue. I am referring here to the European Parliament, where even socialists voted against it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u177	Mr Flahaux, I like you, but still! We can compare apples and pears, but here we are talking about the same party: the Belgian MR, at the level of the Federal Parliament and at the level of the European Parliament! You're not done having the same position! This is the amendment that Mr Michel has tabled in the European Parliament and you do not vote on it! I don't know what it's called, I'm not a doctor!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u178	You're so "michelian" you'd like me to talk about Mr. Michel!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u179	You mean the father?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u180	That's right! [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u181	There is no break at all, Mr. President of the CPAS! In this context, I would like to make some remarks here in the plenary of the House, in accordance with the request of Mr. Louis Michel. So rest assured, you will have the right, as well as the whole of Parliament, from the point of view of Mr Louis Michel with regard to the text under consideration today.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u182	We are really receiving a great lesson today! After the innovation of having Mr Louis Michel come to committee to hear and hear him say all the good he thought of his amendment, you will now be speaking for yourself to justify the fact that you do not accept his amendment. I suppose this is part of the new European procedures or rules, etc. I had not retained this aspect of things, after hearing the lesson about the European institutions. Could anyone enlighten me about this?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u183	In my opinion, he must have been inspired by someone who once said that his heart was bleeding.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u184	What does that have to do with it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u185	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u186	Mrs. Onkelinx, we must not give lessons to others. May I continue, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u187	Please, Mr. Flahaux.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u188	I asked you a question earlier and you didn't answer me. I therefore feel that I do not have to answer you. I welcome, in any case, on behalf of my political group, the synergy that exists between the European Union and Belgium, a synergy that exists both in the opposition and in the majority, and which appeared through the hearing of specialists, in particular that of Louis Michel, who brought this matter to the European Parliament, well before Marie Arena, but also through the vote on this resolution. The work of Louis Michel in the European Parliament must be stressed, which you have done and which I thank you for. As Marie Arena acknowledged, it was he who moved the political lines within the various political groups of the European Parliament... [[Brouhahaha]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u189	Mr President, for the sake of understanding, I would like Mr Flahaux to tell us at what point he is the spokesman for Mr Louis Michel because I am no longer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u190	Mr Frédéric, the whole of what I read reflects the discussions with Mr Louis Michel. The work of Mr Louis Michel in the European Parliament must be stressed. He moved the lines in Parliament by taking his pilgrim stick from the various political groups. For it is not enough, as Mrs Grovonius says a little doctrinally, to have revealed truths, delivered all the more easily when we are in opposition; we must make concrete progress. In this context, it was important to convince, one after the other, political groups or in any case parties of the political groups of the European Parliament in order to arrive at a text ensuring the transparency and traceability of the entire supply chain.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u191	Mr President, I think the truth also has its rights. I would like to point out that Mr Louis Michel was not alone among the 700 Members of the European Parliament. The draft resolution was initiated by Mrs Marie Arena. She performed a very important lobby work and went there to meet the population in order to better understand all the difficulties. I wanted to report it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u192	Mr President, let's talk about history but not start wanting to do a contest. I would just like to point out that Mr Louis Michel has been carrying this file since he was a member of the Commission. I think he has formed a good tandem at European Parliament level with Mrs Arena. That's the reality.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u193	Colleagues, if you will, I shall continue my speech. When you're in the gallery, it's hard to finish a sentence. Parliament, thanks to the tandem Louis Michel/Marie Arena - you see that I am open - therefore has a much more ambitious position on this issue on the eve of negotiations with the Council. That's the form. Now, on the substance of the issue, I believe we have all welcomed the conclusion and success of the Kimberley Process on conflict diamonds. Our diplomacy, headed by Louis Michel at the time, had already played a decisive role on this issue. As a reminder, launched in 2003, the Kimberley Process Certification Scheme requires diamonds to be accompanied by a Certificate of Origin. It also imposes trade controls, a ban on trade with non-signatory countries and the publication of statistics on diamond production and trade. Today, there are almost 80 member countries, all of which – which is important – are the main centres for diamond production, trade and processing. Angola holds the presidency of the Kimberley Process in 2015. The Commission's objective through its proposal for a Regulation is to re-issue this success for tungsten, tin, tantalum and gold. I would like to point out – it will be of interest to the Ecolo group or, in any case, Muriel Gerkens, because it is the only Ecolo present – that what is also important for these conflict minerals is recovery. For tungsten, for example, you should know that not less than 34% of tungsten is recovered. This avoids the need to import new ores, as a significant part of them can be recovered. This is an essential point to be stressed and, of course, further strengthened.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u194	Mr President, I would like to thank Mr Flahaux for his attention today to the recovery of raw materials. I was moved to hear Minister Marghem say in her policy statement that she discovered the existence of a circular economy and that it was possible to save both energy and raw materials using this concept. The MR has discovered the circular economy and the recovery of raw materials, I am happy! Nevertheless, it is important to stress that the decline in the exploitation of natural resources will also depend on the changes in the production patterns that we are going to use. I agree with you, but the interest of the texts and provisions, which we are discussing today, is still another order. We would only take one kilo instead of one tonne, and it is important that the way these resources are exploited is consistent with and integrated with ethical standards and rules for the protection of human rights. I would like to know the arguments of your position, beyond the oratory contests that I have been attending for some time. Why not a mandatory provision of equality vis-à-vis all companies known to be able to achieve a result, while based on voluntary agreements and commitments, the door is left open to unfair competition and non-compliance? A similar mechanism has been put in place with regard to the illegal trade in timber, against which we are trying to fight. We see the need for mandatory compliance if measures are to have an effect. Otherwise, we seem to protect, but we do not protect!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u195	Mrs Gerkens, in referring to the part of recovery, I wanted to say that the more important the part of recovery is, the less the flow of import and poor working conditions will arise. But you are right to say that one kilo produced in bad conditions still deserves our full attention. This regulation, which will have to be adopted by the Council and Parliament, is an unprecedented political opportunity. The main difficulty for this is to obtain unanimity. In the absence of unanimity, we will remain in the previous situation, without text, which is totally unacceptable. The European Parliament, by the amendment adopted, has already improved its negotiating proposal in the Trilogue compared to the Commission's basic text. Between us, as one might think it is a right-wing Commission, I would point out that the majority of European Commissioners are socialists. It always makes me laugh a bit when we stigmatise the European Union, when eleven Heads of State and Government are socialists and a large number of European Commissioners too. Parliament has already improved its proposal on the Commission's basic text from the principle of self-certification to more precise obligations for businesses. This is the position also defended by the resolution of the majority, as of the opposition, but with more finesse and subtlety. [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u196	Ah, it scratches you when you tell the truth! These nuances that we are introducing are assets in the hands of our Foreign Minister, who would have been served by an overly cleavage and abrupt approach. I would remind you that this regulation must be adopted in the same terms by Parliament and the Council – which will vote unanimously for the third time. Each State has a veto right to stop the whole process. [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u197	We can be angelic, but what matters is to get a text to work. If we're too angelic and one state refuses, we get nothing in the end.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u198	It's serious!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u199	It is serious if you don't get anything, unless you don't care and we vote for very strong measures, knowing very well that they will not pass the course of the European Council.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u200	Just for your little information, and without wanting to teach you any lesson, decisions are made by qualified majority.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u201	In this case, this text will have to be voted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u202	I'm so sorry.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u203	Then look for a better source of information. Colleagues, by distinguishing the differences in approach according to the position of enterprises upstream or downstream of the supply chain (Article 3 of the Resolution), by recalling that for downstream undertakings, obligations are flexible and depend on a series of conditions, stressing that the size of enterprises is important (point 1) with a close eye for SMEs (points 7 and 8), with a particular focus on centralisation of control in order to avoid competition between State bodies and the possible shopping of enterprises within the Member States, the economic arguments have therefore been taken into account. Moreover, once an obligation of transparency and information is imposed on European companies downstream of the supply chain in order to ensure a virtuous chain, the European Union will be able to legislate on the conditions for access to its territory of products which do not come from this chain but from outside. This will require non-European operators to comply with the requirements of the European market. This is an important element because we need to leverage non-European producers and consumer states. In the context of global competition, we must also be able to protect our market and the quality of the goods we import, a quality that has an ethical dimension here. In order to give some flexibility to this mechanism, we call for a revision clause after three years (point 14) and an enlargement clause (point 2). Mr President, three questions arise in this debate. Do we solve all the problems related to the conflicts, particularly in the Democratic Republic of the Congo? No, of course not! There are many parameters other than the financing of guerrillas alone, but it is a key point. Can we do more for the thousands of diggers who, in appalling working conditions worthy of Victor Hugo's Miserables, are exploited from an early age? Yes. And the MR, with the Open Vld group and the cabinet of Deputy Prime Minister De Croo, will come with proposals in this direction at the beginning of the year. Are we putting our European companies at risk, in an unfavourable competitive position, compared to Asian companies? By requiring all the undertakings concerned to disclose the identity of their suppliers, non-European operators will also be obliged to comply with the requirements of the European market. It will also be possible to create a market for clean minerals from conflict zones, both more united and more competitive. In conclusion, this exciting debate has enabled us to give our Foreign Minister a clear mandate, perhaps insufficient for some, consistent and realistic for these negotiations in the Council. We support an ambitious position to enable Belgium to play a leading role in the discussions to bring this position to the European Council. This proposal for a regulation represents an opportunity to introduce more ethics into the economies of developing countries and to help local people. This approach is fully in line with our foreign policy and our development cooperation policy. The opposition and the majority held an interesting debate although sometimes the form was somewhat excessive. I would like to point out what Louis Michel has just said to us today: "I welcome the excellent compromise negotiated by Denis Ducrame and the MR on this essential issue. It is proof that we liberals are the advocates of a market economy that places ethics above sordid business. This compromise is a strong message to the government before the interinstitutional negotiations begin. It places Belgium in an ideal position to support an ambitious and effective approach."
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u204	Obviously in the MR, there is a model statement that is always made out, regardless of the subject of discussion or the text that is being discussed. Already in his press release of 20 May 2015, following the amendment tabled by Mr Louis Michel, we were talking about the universal conscience that triumphed over sordid businessism. Obviously, no matter what the text is, we keep the same rhetoric! I'm not fooled, Mr. Flahaux. It is not complicated: you have two amendments tabled by Mr Louis Michel which have been voted on at European Parliament level. We have given you the opportunity to revisit, word for word, the same amendment, and you have not done so! That said, the good news is that we have learned why, since you have just affirmed the need to reach a compromise. I have no difficulty with that, but if you could just assume it and stop making it seem that your text will change anything to the situation of the local populations, it would be a little intellectual honesty!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u205	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I hope to be able to reduce the seriousness of the debate a little bit. After the caricature of our resolution, I would like to explain a few words about what is actually in the resolution. The resolution is before us because we believe it is very important to fully develop and support a European market for responsibly traded ores. This is an issue that has been on the agenda for longer than today and which has been on our agenda for a long time. How can we realize that? This can be done by breaking the link between mining and trade in ores, minerals and metals, on the one hand, and financing armed conflicts, on the other. That is what we want to do, also in cooperation with the companies. After all, companies also play an important role in respecting human rights through corporate social responsibility. This is made clear in the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, among other things, and that must be respected. The aim of this proposal for a resolution is to send the initiative for a European Union regulation on ores, minerals and metals from conflict and high-risk areas. That is why this resolution is before us today. How it should be translated into practice is, of course, the key question. A series of very important initiatives have already been taken in the past. I mentioned it in detail during the discussion in committee, and I shall do so very briefly here. In America, there is the Dodd-Frank Act, where section 1502 requires due diligence. This is an appropriate care to the listed companies. Such appropriate care shall include the development of policies and the development of risk analysis for companies, the reduction of risk, the conduct of in-depth audits of the supply chain and the reporting to the public thereof. The focus is mainly on ores and minerals from the Democratic Republic of Congo and neighbouring countries. There is also the OECD Due Diligence Guidance for Responsible Supply Chains of Minerals from Conflict-Affected and High-Risk Areas. In this case, it is a voluntary directive. Voluntary directives should help companies from OECD Member States to re-establish that due diligence. Again, this is about risk assessment, drawing up a plan for risk mitigation, external audit, reporting and so on. These initiatives, as we have heard several times in the hearings, have also become increasingly an inspiration for companies with important trading activities in the mineral supply chain for gold, tin, pine and tungsten. Companies do not want to be linked to conflict minerals or human rights violations and are making more and more efforts to do so. The hearings have shown that the various initiatives from different sectors are certainly worth mentioning. The IPIS study has shown that business initiatives can also have a major impact on the field. Following all these due diligence initiatives, the European Parliament adopted in 2010 a resolution calling on the European Commission to develop an EU framework on this issue. The EU is an important importer of these minerals. The 3TGS tin, tungsten, tungsten and gold........................................................................................................................................................................ Last year, the European Commission proposed a draft regulation on minerals and metals from conflict and high-risk areas, based on the principles of the OECD guidelines. There is, of course, as we have just noticed, a lot of debate about how we should now deal with this in concrete terms. Can we make due diligence mandatory? Can this be done in different ways, depending on the different places in the supply chain? This is a serious and rather complex question. She's not that easy to answer. Our question must, of course, be what has the most effect. How can we effectively change the things that we all want to change? Do we have to make everything mandatory? If we're not able to enforce or control that on the premises, isn't that a problem? Should we proceed step by step and raise awareness and encourage the actors to commit themselves?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u206	To that question, Mrs Claerhout, we had answers. We know today that a voluntary process affects very few businesses (450) and a very small proportion of trade (3%). We know that this does not have a major impact on the situation of local populations. The NGOs that have come to the hearing, as well as Mr Michel himself at his hearing by our committee, have made it clear that there is a need to implement a mandatory process in order to have a real impact on the existing difficulties and to be able to put an end to these unacceptable working conditions and conflict situations. But, of course, no one has said that these measures should be implemented and that nothing should be done to accompany them. That's the opposite! We have all highlighted the need to accompany this process in order to ensure that this happens in the best possible conditions. Today, in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, as you know, green chains and ethical processes are already being implemented. By means of a mandatory regulation, by continuing to accompany the process and extending it to other countries in the region, we could really have a major impact on this catastrophic human rights situation in these regions. But unfortunately, once again, in the name of economic considerations and in order not to run out of business, you prefer to content yourself with this purely voluntary approach, which we regret.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u207	A little further in my speech I come to my proposals on this subject. These are also included in the resolution and are absolutely not non-binding. You may repeat that a hundred times, Mrs Grovonius, but those who read the resolution will find that they are not without obligation. I would remind you that during the hearings several experts pointed out that the existing non-binding initiatives are indeed successful and have an impact on the ground. So I don't understand why you keep denying it. It is easy to say that everything should become mandatory, but literature also shows that the supply chain is so diversified that it has to work in different ways, depending on the place in the supply chain, the type of business and so on. I'll come to my suggestions later.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u208	No one said that the device could not be adapted at any time, but it must always remain binding and mandatory. That's the shade.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u209	I have listed a number of questions that we need to answer. Should we proceed step by step or take various measures related to due diligence, adapted to the place in the supply chain and the role of companies? I have a number of additional reservations. For example, we must be very aware that due diligence is not necessarily about banning all minerals from conflict and high-risk zones. It is about assessing the risk and acting accordingly. The involvement of companies in this process is crucial. An obligation and a too narrow geographical provision could also initially lead to a de facto embargo, whereby our companies would rather leave certain regions for convenience. Although this Regulation does not focus on one region, it is still possible, as there will always be areas that will not be labelled as conflict zones. It is important to note that the local population desperately needs the income of natural resources. These regions therefore really need responsible and well-thought-out investments and to promote trade in ores, minerals and metals through official channels to generate sustainable economic growth. It is important to know about all this, and I would like to stress this point: in the end, only an integrated approach will deliver sustainable results in the long term. By this I mean an approach involving not only companies, but also local authorities, other actors, foreign authorities, diplomatic actors and international organisations. Only then can we really tackle these problems. We have talked a lot about this at the hearings, at the committee meeting and just now. Through this resolution, we call on the European Council to call for a binding regulation on due diligence or due diligence, depending on and tailored to the activities of the companies, their size and their place in the supply chain. This means that the measures are differentiated and different for upstream and downstream companies. This was also emphasised during the hearings, namely that we know that the principle of care is, by definition, flexible and depends on the risk. precautionary measures are also highly dependent on the location of the company in the chain. All the representatives, not only the companies but also the NGOs, stressed that we should take this into account when we come up with a proposal and draw up a resolution. For these reasons, we propose in the resolution that the obligations should be made more stringent for all EU importers, refineries and smelters of tin, tungsten, tungsten and gold and the metals derived from them. In addition, we call for incentives to encourage downstream companies to due diligence. We also ask for an evaluation after three years to determine whether an adjustment is necessary. In other words, we are focusing on the following elements: as efficient and effective as possible by focusing primarily on the core of the value chain, namely the level of importers, refineries and smelters, but also on importers of metals under various trade forms such as bars, rods, wires, plate, etc. We are also focusing on the use of a global geographical scope for the definition of "conflict zone', so that there would be no stigmatisation of one particular region in order to avoid de facto embargo practices. We also call for attention to be paid to the competitiveness of our companies by providing for a transitional period and accompanying the SMEs. We also call on the European Union to take incentive and sensitising measures through their public procurement, through an accessible list of responsible smelters, refineries and importers worldwide, and to provide for a transitional period and the necessary support. In this way, smaller companies will also be given the necessary adjustment period and support. That way we keep the system, in other words, manageable. We also call for convergence with the existing initiatives in the sectors in our resolution, as well as attention to the socio-economic development of the local population. We also call for support for regional initiatives, such as the International Conference on the Great Lakes Region, which combats the illegal exploitation of raw materials, and for cooperation with these initiatives and local civil society to provide adequate guidance to local producers in this regulation. In short, we focus on the core of the value chain. Due diligence will have to be the most developed in this focus, with emphasis not only on the development of policies, risk analysis, the management of those risks, but also on the introduction of independent audits by a third party, and public reporting. In other words, an obligation. This obligation for all importers has the effect of extending the scope of the obligation not only to European smelters and refineries but also to other countries. Now, focusing on these players in the production chain is absolutely not a minimum approach. So doing nothing is out of the question. It is the way in which we can get a grip on a significant part of the production chain; it also allows us to control the process. Large downstream companies will also have to do due diligence and report on this. They are already subject to the existing European Directive on the publication of non-financial information and information on diversity. That Directive requires certain large companies and groups to report on, inter alia, their human rights policies, the fight against corruption and appropriate care in the supply chain. So we choose to put the emphasis on that as well. For the other downstream companies, especially SMEs and micro-enterprises, we opt not to impose too heavy obligations on them, but to encourage them to show the necessary due diligence or due diligence. We propose a flexible obligation to provide information on this subject under certain conditions. For example, there should be a sector-level support and focus on the real risk materials, all in line with existing due diligence initiatives that are already being taken effectively today. We also stress that downstream companies should be encouraged to take all reasonable measures to know the risks and to provide information about them to the public. In order to achieve our goal in a successful way and to make companies more and more sensitive to this issue, it is extremely important to develop regulations that can be implemented and monitored in a reasonable and serious way. We need to ensure that the measures we take are manageable and enforceable in order to have an impact. Otherwise, it will not encourage companies to do due diligence in a serious way. In this way, we believe, we can make real progress and we are contributing in a reasonable and serious way to a conflict-free market of ores in Europe. This can only be done, once again, within this broader, integrated approach. Focusing on this alone will not solve the problem either. Finally, I would like to say how important this is, because that way Europe can also express its views on the kind of society and community it stands for, namely a society that believes that the natural resources and treasures of the earth should help the people living there, not to feed armed conflicts, but to make socio-economic progress and thus give the people living there a better life.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u210	Mr President, I will be brief. As much as I wanted to be long on the previous text, as much as I will refer mainly to the statements made by my colleague Mrs Matz in committee on this text, as well as to the statements made by Mr Claude Rolin in the European Parliament, which was active on the subject. Unfortunately, the texts before us today do not contain much of this unanimity. First of all, I will make a point of methodology and form. I am glad that the chairman of the Committee on External Relations is here. I regret this text, which came down in the last straight line because there was a consensus on the working methodology in the Committee on External Relations. Remember, two months ago, the chairman of the committee asked each of the groups what his priority text was. I had chosen the extension of the genocide to the Aramaeans, the PS had chosen this text, others had chosen it. While I had a text on this issue that preceded the text of the PS, because it is a subject that I have been for many years – I initiated a parliamentary committee of inquiry in the Senate in 2003 and I am also the Kimberley Process – I agreed with the idea that we would work on the text of the PS. Unfortunately, this has not been the case, and I regret it. As far as the previous text is concerned, I had also tabled a text and the majority, once again, came out in the last straight line with a text which it had difficulty in bringing to fruition. We have to stop this kind of work. The majority must respect the opposition, it must respect its own methodology, the one it adopted in committee. That is how we have always worked under previous legislatures and I would like to return to a work where everyone respects the work of parliamentary groups, particularly with regard to the priorities that our colleagues had chosen. Unlike Mrs Grovonius, I was not very reassured by Mr Michel's intervention. Maybe it's because I've been hearing it for some time. I had heard him make strong, matamoresque, powerful statements about ethics, but I had also heard him say "meaning some adjustments". And hearing these three words, someone who follows these questions and has been doing politics for some time feels that the case is going to deflate seriously. We feel that behind the sleeve effects, the bodybuilding, the statements in front of the media, we are preparing something that has absolutely nothing to do with everything that has been said. I was not surprised to see that Mr Louis Michel's fine statements only involved him because, in his own group in the European Parliament, a whole series of his colleagues were not very happy to have heard these statements, starting with Mr Verhofstadt. I felt that these statements were going to be redecorated in our assembly and that it was better, in order not to lose the face too much, for Mr. Louis Michel to come and say that all this was beautiful, but the text that was his had to be rewritten. By reminding us that consensus must be reached in the Council of European Ministers and that we must not therefore be too ambitious. We therefore have a resolution that falls short of the declarations and proposals of all the political groups in the European Parliament, including ours. That's the conclusion. It is true that we wanted to co-sign the resolution of the PS because the latter had made it a priority at the level of our committee and we are maintaining this line. It consists of saying that we can put in place a system throughout the supply chain - and not just the production chain, Mrs Claerhout - that respects this due diligence. I would point out that due diligence is a rather light mechanism, since companies are asked to exercise control over their own supplies and the materials used in particular components. This is not an external control, but it is verified that companies do so a little seriously and it is requested that due diligence should meet certain very specific criteria. However, it is the companies themselves that continue to control. Indeed, the private sector that we received in committee told us that this system is right for us. This had surprised more than one, but the representative of FEB had said that the development of an ambitious mechanism was appropriate for him. With caution, he had suggested that this mechanism could be systematic and that he did not see much objection to following the European Parliament's recommendations. Unfortunately, Belgium will not go any further. What is still surprising is that all I can say is that the European Council needs unanimity, as much as I do not see why Belgium would not have a clear and strong position in this negotiation through a Parliament resolution. I regret that the position of the majority today is not that clear and strong position.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u211	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The meeting's over. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u212	• 24 - Gwenaëlle Grovonius cs (1226/7) ******
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u213	The vote on the amendments that have been tabled and on the whole of the proposal will take place later. The vote on the reserved amendments and on the whole proposal will take place at a later stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u214	Proposals tabled by: Proposals submitted by: - 1111: David Clarinval, Wouter Raskin, Nahima Lanjri, Egbert Lachaert, Catherine Fonck, Stefaan Vercamer, Denis Ducrame, Olivier Chastel, Sybille de Coster-Bauchau, Stephanie Thoron - 225: Frédéric Daerden, Jean-Marc Delizée, Eric Massin - 841: David Clarinval, Sybille de Coster-Bauchau, Stéphanie Thoron, Denis Ducrame, Nahima Lanjri, Stefaan Vercamer - 886: Georges Gilkinet, Evita Willaert, Kristof Calvo, Stefaan Van Hecke, Muriel Gerkens, Wouter De Vriendt, Jean-Marc Nollet I propose that a single discussion be devoted to these four motions for resolutions. I propose that you devote one discussion to these four motions for resolutions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u215	The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1111/9) The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1111/9) The meeting's open. The discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u216	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in the Committee on Social Affairs, the various groups have tabled priority legislative proposals or resolutions. The MR Group has tabled a resolution on posted workers. This resolution was signed by Mr David Clarinval, Ms Sybille de Coster-Bauchau, Ms Stéphanie Thoron, Mr Denis Ducarme, Mrs Nahima Lanjri and Mr Stefaan Vercamer. Mr Clarinval reiterated his group's commitment to freedom of movement, particularly for workers. These are fundamental rules of European law which are reflected in the Posting of Workers Directive. Mr Clarinval pointed out that, unfortunately, posting is increasingly associated with fraud. Mr Clarinval stated that according to the ACV, the construction sector had lost some 15 000 workers in the period 2012-2014 due to social dumping. Strangely enough, the resonance is virtually nonexistent, despite its size. However, there are about 1 700 companies which have each disposed of a small number of workers. Mr Clarinval pointed out that four countries were aware of the number of Limosa returns in 2012, namely the Netherlands, Poland, Romania and Bulgaria. He states that the contradictions no longer concern the left and right, or patterns and employees, but are mainly about East and West. The proposal of the PS Group, signed by Mr Frédéric Daerden, was linked to this motion for a resolution. Mr Daerden can be found for the free movement of workers, but not for those workers. In his view, solving the problems with a downward spiral, for example by reducing social security or reducing wages, is not a good solution. Mr Daerden is particularly concerned at the reconciliation of the principle of free movement, conditions of competition and the protection of social security in Europe. At European level, for example, a European minimum wage should be introduced, as should a growing social security system. In Belgium, all workers employed here, regardless of the origin of the posting, would be covered by that protection. Mr Daerden felt that the fight against social dumping should be pursued at both national and European level. According to him, it comes down to quickly meeting the sighs of, among other things, the Confederation Building. Mr Gilkinet of Ecolo-Green also proposed a resolution on tackling social dumping, which was also linked to the MR proposal. Mr Gilkinet noted that the problem in the construction sector was so acute that all social players agreed. The destruction of jobs is a threat to the country and is the result of European legislation. The Greens in the European Parliament pointed out early that the problem in this area was that equal pay for equal work was not paid and no equal social contributions were paid. Deregulation and dismantling of social laws in the most advanced countries, including Belgium, lead to social decline. The Greens are European-minded, but not in that way. According to Mr Gilkinet, there is a broad consensus on the Posting of Workers Directive, but he notes that the Liberal Group came forward with a proposal for a resolution. He also blames the Socialist Group for its failure; he believes that it sometimes comes too late with new initiatives to deal with the consequences of the measures. The recommendations of the Special Consultative Committee on Construction, set up in the Central Council for Industry, included Mr Gilkinet in his resolution. He has reviewed all the measures in his proposal and added that a directive is not an unchanging text. Just as laws can be amended, European law must also be able to be amended. The Belgian Minister must dare to take a strong position when he meets his colleagues from other countries, in order to oppose the destruction of jobs. Mr Gilkinet was also concerned that the posting of workers in the temporary employment sector was becoming increasingly apparent and that monitoring was becoming more difficult. A majority resolution was tabled on the basis of the motion for a resolution. The Minister for Work, Mr Peeters, also stated that technical improvements were desirable. He is at the disposal of his administration to cooperate in this respect. The Minister is certainly not against a resolution. Mr Tommelein, Secretary of State for Combating Social Fraud, has already said that trade unions, employers and government are aware of the urgency of the matter. For the government, social dumping is a priority, which is why an action plan has been drawn up. If everyone agrees, the Secretary of State has no objection to examining a motion for a resolution. He said that the neighbouring countries should also be involved. Where checks are carried out, adequate resources shall also be made available. First, he wanted to wait for a common position from the construction sector. I myself felt that the Liberals and Christian Democrats took a commendable stance in their motion for a resolution. The Socialist Group was able to support this text in part, but its content is no longer entirely topical. The proposal was also somewhat out of date with regard to the anti-abuse provisions. The proposals of the European social partners are good and could have been better included in the proposal for a resolution by the Liberals and Christian Democrats. Mr Vercamer acknowledged that the motion for a resolution, which he supported, could be updated. He said he was prepared to discuss the text further, but he felt it was more important that the Committee and the Chamber, which had been familiar with the problem for years, should step by step, send out a strong signal and take concrete measures to support the sector as much as possible. According to Mr Vercamer, joint and several liability remains an important weapon. He also considered that the distinction between employers in good faith and in bad faith is very essential. In his view, the agreements between the social partners on control and sanctions policy should continue to be respected. Mr Jan Spooren of the N-VA supported in principle the proposal for a resolution by the Liberals and Christian Democrats. His group defends a higher employment rate, which is linked to job creation and the completion of those jobs with workers who are or should be present on the labour market. In his view, the allocation of such jobs to posted workers, whether or not with improper or fraudulent use of posting opportunities, is not a solution. According to Mr Spoorten, control must be stepped up. In his view, it might also be interesting to consider whether existing services could not be further integrated in the field of inspection. Mr Spooren also felt that there were a number of system errors in European legislation which led to abuses. For example, two years may continue to be subject to social security in the country of origin, but wage and working conditions are governed by the law of the country in which they are employed. The resolution must also appeal to the government to seek partners at European level. In the Benelux context, the willingness to join forces was already found. After the discussions, the majority tabled a joint resolution. The resolution was signed by the political groups of the MR, Open Vld, CD&V, CDH and N-VA. On the new resolution, No. 1111, Mr Egbert Lachaert stated that she was supported by the various parties of the majority, but he was counting on much broader support. Posting creates unfair competition which causes job losses in Belgium. Fraudulent structures need to be addressed, possibly by strengthening inspection services. Additional settings are not required. Mr Gilkinet felt that the problem had to be tackled urgently by the government. During the previous parliamentary term, he had already pointed this out, just as the Greens had raised concerns about the issue of the Posting of Workers Directive, which is inadequate in a number of areas. The free movement of workers is defended, but within a certain framework. Action must also be taken at Belgian level, and the motion for a resolution represents a good step, but it remains inadequate and the reactions are difficult to get rid of. Mr Daerden would also have preferred the resolution to have arisen within a working group. The monitoring of social dumping issues could even be monitored continuously in such a working group. He says that his group largely agrees with the content of the motion for a resolution. He felt that the burden he wanted to reduce should not be at the expense of workers' rights and interests. This goes against the principles of social security and its financing. Mrs Fonck shares the view of the majority, because the problem transcends party boundaries and even requires a European approach. She's got four comments to make. Firstly, it wishes to see an extension of joint and several liability. It wants the existing legislation to be complied with, of course. She's asking for an extension of the inspection. Fourthly, Belgium can take the lead in the fight against social dumping. Mrs Demir noted that there was consensus on tackling social dumping across party boundaries. The free movement of persons is not called into question, but this fundamental right must be implemented in accordance with specific rules. She refers to a study by the Dutch government on labour market shifts. This shows that large construction companies employ even fewer staff. This trend could also continue in Belgium. Mr Vercamer supported this resolution and considered it important to tackle social dumping in conjunction with the EU. The resolution was then discussed. The resolution contains two types of recommendations. Firstly, it concerns the approach at national level and, secondly, the approach at European level. Nine proposals were formulated and several amendments were added to the proposal. Several amendments were adopted and several were not. The resolution was finally adopted, with technical and linguistic improvements, with 10 votes in favour and 3 abstentions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u217	Mr President, Mrs Kitir, thank you for the detailed explanation. Mr Secretary of State, much has been said. I promise, like my predecessors, to keep it concise. I'm really gonna stick to that. In recent weeks, following the crisis in Greece, there has been a growing awareness that the European house is not finished. A lot of renovation works are needed in different domains. One of these areas is the principle of the free movement of goods, services and workers. That is one of the basic pillars of our European Union. We do not question that principle. That's very clear. We do not question it today either, which does not mean that we should close our eyes to the gaps and shortcomings in European legislation. For the sake of convenience, misuses within that framework are classified under the term "social dumping'. Sometimes these abuses are obvious. Think of the PO Box companies and the bogus self-employment, where hourly wages are paid that are sometimes less than 5 euros. Efforts must be made in this area. Efforts must also be stepped up. Mistakes must be identified and addressed. However, there have also been many improper abuses. For example, constructions are being set up that allow foreign workers, often from the south and from the east of Europe, to be employed here for several years at a labour cost which is significantly lower than the labour cost we know here. Such a structure is perfectly legal because it is possible to pay social security contributions in the home country or country of origin and thus not here in the working country or country in which they are employed. Several of our economic sectors, especially the construction sector, are under considerable pressure from this unfair competition and are almost obliged to participate in the creation of sometimes perverse structures, so as not to lose out in this unfair competition. I am therefore pleased that there is broad support here for this resolution, which describes a number of concrete actions in the context of posting fraud. The fight against cross-border social and, as far as we are concerned, fiscal fraud is essential, and we do not want the measures taken today by current governments to reorganise the labour market and increase the level of activity or employment to be completely undermined by further social dumping. We must not just look at the great Europe, but we must also be prepared to wipe our own door. For example, it is already possible today for inspection services to cooperate in the various investigations, but efficiency would be much higher if we were to take a step towards integrating the various inspection services. At the same time, let us work together with a number of Western European countries facing the same problem at European level to adapt the Posting of Workers Directive and to extend the working country principle already applied to wage and working conditions to social security.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u218	I congratulate Mr Raskin on his maiden speech.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u219	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, despite my colleague's excellent report, I will develop the subject in a comprehensive manner on the basis of Mr Clarinval's resolution. I'm surprised he's not here, but I see Mr. Miller representing the whole group. I will speak on my behalf and on behalf of Mrs Kitir for both of our groups. Indeed, this is a topic on which we are working very much together. The fight against social dumping is a top priority for our groups. Given the increasingly devastating consequences of this unfair competition, we must react more than ever. The European Union cannot be an untenable area of dumping against workers and States, especially those who, like us, have high social standards. Today, in the absence of common European safeguards and social standards, free movement has replaced unfair competition between European workers and Member States. This competition sometimes leads to unworthy situations of human exploitation. So there's an emergency. Every day, we see that the situation is deteriorating considerably. Because of some unscrupulous people and European legislative laissez-faire, this situation threatens our jobs and undermines our social security system. This situation is unacceptable. We must mobilize in action and reaction. However, there are those, like the majority, who speak and those who want to act to put an end to this situation. Today, we must take strong measures to reconcile the principle of free movement with our social model, measures to protect our jobs and their quality, measures in continuity with those announced by the previous government at the Benelux Social Summit. In this context, I am pleased that we can, for the first time in this House, seriously address the issue of social dumping. Unfortunately, it is in the form of a resolution, not an ambitious government bill or an initiative in the European Council. Together with my group, as a constructive force, we want to work with all those who share this essential objective of combating social dumping in order to preserve our social achievements. Indeed, the preservation of our social system and the fight against social dumping deserve a broad consensus. Therefore, even if what is proposed today is at this stage only a catalogue of good intentions, even though I regret the absence of a working group, of a global think tank that would have led to a common proposal and a working group that could, throughout our work, monitor what is being done and developments in this area, even though I regret that the majority has systematically rejected the many constructive amendments tabled aimed at improving the text, I retain this desire to cooperate positively to put an end to scandalous social dumping practices and, above all, their effects. However, ladies and gentlemen, while I share many of the points made in the motion for a resolution, as a socialist, I cannot accept that it first ask the government "to combat the wage gaps that make social dumping profitable by significantly reducing the burden on labour". Understand, ladies and gentlemen, the fight against social dumping is not an end in itself but is intended to preserve our social model, our jobs and above all to ensure high social standards at European level. The problem is not so much our Belgian standards. The problem is that our standards are being undermined by the lack of up-to-date standards at European level. By reducing the wages of our workers to reduce the wage gap and by reducing social security contributions, since that is what this is all about, you are seriously undermining our social system. You are talking about discouraging employers from using cheap foreign labour by reducing the cost of work in Belgium. In your opinion, it is simply necessary to reduce wage differentials by greatly reducing what you call expenses, but which in fact constitutes the wages of workers. For us, it's very clear, we don't want this crazy race at least so-called, this harmonisation down. We do not wish to have comparable wages and social protection in Belgium to those of Poland or Romania. The mini-jobs or other precarious statutes that prevail in several European countries cannot become the norm. The European Commission cannot, at the height of the 2008 crisis, have welcomed our social stabilizers which have allowed us not to experience a recession unlike others and, today, in the beginning of an economic recovery, say that these same stabilizers are guilty of all the evils. What we want is to be able to continue to provide decent pensions, quality health care, good living conditions and a high level of well-being in Belgium, but also in Europe. For let us not be deceived! The future is Europe, but a social Europe and not an austere Europe. What we want in this respect is the opposite of what is proposed, particularly in the first point of the resolution under consideration. What we want is upward harmonisation, upward convergence of wages, a high level of social protection so that every European is free to work in another country, if he wishes, but is not obliged to do so because he cannot live decently in his country. We want a social Europe far from the fiascos we know, especially in the Greek dossier. I invite you, ladies and gentlemen, to reconsider this point of your proposal by providing, at a minimum, compensation for social security, otherwise we will not be able to support it. Beyond words, there are acts. This government will soon have to do so as part of the transposition of the European directive on public procurement. I know you're working on it in working groups. Thanks to the contributions of the European Parliament and, in particular, my former colleague Marc Tarabella, we have here a progressive text which offers opportunities to act effectively against social dumping at federal level, but also within the Regions. The Prime Minister and the government must not opt for minimalist and unbinding transposition. Use all the weapons this text offers to take full account of the fight against social dumping. Minister, the bullet is on your side. On the other hand, it is not because, for the reasons mentioned, we cannot support the text proposed today that we are not active, productive, constructive in this respect. Indeed, once the motion for a resolution has been adopted, because I have no doubt that it will be adopted, it will be necessary to transform this catalogue of good intentions into concrete measures without delay. That is why PS and sp.a have tabled a bill – which has already been taken into consideration – specifically aimed at combating social dumping. I won't develop it. But, in a few words, it plans to adapt the responsibility of the payer in order to make it truly effective, not to allow the use of economic unemployment for companies that employ subcontractors, to better combat the phenomenon of false self-employed persons and to take genuinely dissuasive sanctions to put an end to the abuses found. I dare to believe and hope that the majority will be consistent with itself and that at the time of taking action it will support this bill as well as the others already introduced or coming back to school. This will enable us, ladies and gentlemen, to make progress in this important fight against social dumping. I also call on the majority to urge the government, in its current fiscal year, to provide for a substantial increase in the number of social inspectors, with a view to finally enforcing existing and future laws, including those tabled by our groups. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u220	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, I am sorry, Mr Daerden, to replace Mr Clarinval at his feet. I hope I will do that correctly. First of all, I would like to point out how much my group is first committed to free movement in general and to the free movement of workers in particular. These are fundamental rules for the proper functioning of the labour market in the European Union. Unfortunately, however, today it must be noted that the misuse of the rules, the misuse of directives and the fraud of secondment are elements that serve and undermine our economy and, above all, undermine job creation in Belgium. If we look at the situation in the construction sector, for example, we find that despite a 2% increase in the volume of activity in this sector, it is no less than 15,000 jobs that were destroyed between 2012 and 2014, according to the CSC. Unfortunately, in spite of this magnitude, little has been said about it. However, if we take the account, it is 1,700 companies that have lost and have dismissed workers. So frankly, this is an extremely worrying situation for the construction sector. An alarm cry was also launched by the managing director of the Federation of Construction. At the same time, the number of Limosa statements has continued to increase, reaching several hundred thousand in recent years. So you're gonna ask me where they came from. Curiously, they come from the Netherlands for 93,000 via temporary agencies that bring Romanians from Holland, Poland for 69,000, Romania for 29,000, Bulgaria for 5,843, and I could continue. So we can see that this is evolving exponentially, but these Limosa statements are only the apparent face of the iceberg. In addition to these official declarations, there are many which are prolonged illegally or even concerning workers who have no authorisation and who in any case do not have an official status. In order to combat this worrying phenomenon, the authors of this resolution have decided to develop a cluster of solutions, which involve several levels of action, both at national and European level. In parallel to this parliamentary work, we want to highlight government action, as Secretary of State Bart Tommelein and Minister Willy Borsus have tabled 40 measures to combat social dumping. Among these measures, there will be tighter controls on secondment. It will no longer be possible to extend it for more than two years and if this request is to be made, it will be subject to the evaluation of several administrations, in order to ensure that the companies concerned are in good order from a fiscal and social point of view. However, Belgium's wish is to limit the validity of the secondment form to six months, renewable under conditions. Of course, this measure requires an agreement from Europe. This work must therefore be done in concert with Europe. Thus, in the event of a dispute with the issuing State on Form A1, our Government hopes to obtain that the burden of proof rests with the issuing State. Yes, we can say that today Belgium has taken the lead in the fight against social dumping and, among the demands put forward, our Prime Minister, at a previous summit, called for social security contributions to be paid in the country where the work is carried out, before being returned to the caisse of the country of origin if the secondment complies with the rules laid down by Europe. As a first step, Belgium will try to achieve some progress under bilateral treaties. For example, within the Benelux, we would like to tackle the Dutch acting companies which play a major role in the illegal detachments in Belgium. Controls should, moreover, be facilitated by an exchange of data, to which the Government of the Netherlands has committed itself. It is within the framework of this struggle, both at national and European level, that we want to include this new proposal for fair competition in this sector. We do not want to call into question the free movement of workers, which is a foundation of the European Union and which is a real added value. However, it is now clear that Directive 96/71 on the posting of workers, adopted in 1996, needs to be amended. It is important to enforce the basis of our working conditions, such as minimum wages and working hours. However, we want to strengthen our demands to avoid all the abuses and perverse effects that we are experiencing today and that are increasing exponentially, precipitating the construction sector into a dizzying fall. Thus, more than ten thousand jobs could be lost. I would like to stress the need to assess, with a view to possible adaptation, the joint and joint responsibility of all subcontractors in all sectors of activity, and in particular with regard to the payment of sectoral minimum wages. We would like to introduce non-compliance with the directive as a nullity clause in order to obtain a call for tenders from the public authorities; to provide the social inspectors with human resources, allowing them to carry out checks on weekends and public holidays and, in the event of a fraudulent intention, to impose immediate fines on companies which violate the obligations imposed by the directive. In order to strengthen the quality of the Labour Inspectorate's controls, we wish to implement the Court of Auditors' social security requirements. Contrary to what Mr Daerden has said, we must act on the cost of work, which is one of the highest in the world. In this context, the reduction in costs is a fundamental element. By reducing gross wages, fraud will be less attractive to employers. All these measures will therefore have to be accompanied by a reduction in labour costs in order to make this famous social dumping less profitable. In conclusion, I thank my colleagues in the majority, but also the colleagues in the CDH, for their constructive support for our resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u221	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, last week I was a week too early in my speech, I was a little impatient, but today I am just in time. This is an important resolution on the posting of foreign workers. We know that this does not always go smoothly and that there are many problems at many levels. At Belgian federal level, we are pleased to note that we have reached a broad consensus with a majority and opposition to the resolution tabled by Mr Clarinval of the MR, in order to address the problems of posting. Through this resolution, which has been widely supported, we call on the government to address these problems. We stress that, of course, we support the free movement of workers and that there is little going on if the rules are correctly applied, but we see that many problems can arise if the rules are not correctly applied. For example, the European Posting of Workers Directive provides that employers in the European Union must comply with the working and wage conditions of the country where the worker is employed, unless the conditions are more favourable in the country of origin. Unfortunately, this principle is not always respected. Social security contributions have to be paid in the country of origin, which in turn gives a significant advantage to countries with low social security contributions. In this way there is a great deal of abuse, because social security contributions are often not paid in the country of origin either. There is mainly abuse in the sectors of construction, transport and cleaning, but also in others. Companies offer prices that are 20% to 30% lower than those offered by companies that comply fully with the rules. Sometimes companies even set up mailbox companies abroad to send employees to Belgium via that route, in order to escape higher social security contributions in Belgium. Moreover, it is often about workers who do not even come from abroad. It's about people who live here. This is a clear form of abuse. This naturally creates unfair competition. Belgian SMEs in the construction sector lose a lot of jobs, especially to foreign companies and Belgian construction companies that employ foreign entrepreneurs who do not respect the rules of the game. Sometimes people from Germany come to work with us in the slaughterhouse sector at hourly wages that fall backwards. It involves hourly wages of 3 to 8 euros per hour. Everyone knows something's going on. Let us not forget the human suffering. These conditions very often lead to degrading situations. After all, it is not only at very low wages. It is often also about exploitation, in the sense that working hours are not respected, overtime is not paid or accidents at work are not reported; sometimes people are literally killed after an accident at work. This is basically a modern form of slavery. These abuses also cost jobs. The government is making every effort to stimulate job creation, but we note that the ACV study showed that 15 000 jobs were lost in the construction sector between 2012 and 2014.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u222	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u223	My colleague has just reported it, they are also ACV figures. The numbers are a bit fluctuating, but it's certainly about fifteen thousand jobs. Some say it would even be a slightly higher number, Mrs Demir. For the sake of clarity, these jobs have been lost, while the activity in the construction sector has certainly not decreased, quite the contrary. A lot of these jobs shift to so-called posted workers. That way there will be problems. Our group would like to highlight a number of key points in this resolution. In this proposal for a resolution, we call for stricter legislation in various areas. According to the resolution, companies that do not comply with the minimum wage rules should be excluded from public procurement. Recently, when this resolution was discussed in the committee responsible, I was at the OSCE summit in Helsinki. There I have also introduced a number of the proposals contained in this resolution as an amendment to the OSCE texts. I can give you the happy news that they have also been accepted. With regard to social dumping, three amendments were accepted, inspired by this resolution. Mr Tommelein, you will not only be asked by Parliament today to implement the proposals contained in this resolution, but you will also be asked, together with the 56 Member States of the OSCE, to tackle social dumping. I think an extra push has come in the back now. If this can be tackled at international level, we certainly need to do so. At international level, we have also ensured that companies are excluded from public procurement if they do not respect minimum wage and working conditions. Governments should also check whether companies providing goods or services below market prices also respect minimum wages. We would also like to see an extension of the liability of contractors for the subcontractors they work with. In the construction sector, we think it would be useful to extend compulsory attendance registration to all yards, so that they do not only apply to yards above EUR 800 000, which are currently covered by the scheme. I know, Mr Secretary of State, that you are very fond of the proposal I have put forward several times in committee. It's a pleasure for us. We are going to keep a close eye on the fact that you are working with the government to ensure this. We also want to ensure that the social partners are provided with the necessary tools to file complaints in the event of a breach of the directive. This is also an area of particular importance for the social partners in order to achieve the same goal. They do. As can be seen from the round table, the same applies. Neither the bona fide employers nor the workers in the affected sectors, such as agriculture and the meat industry, have any interest in maintaining the existing fraud and abuses. However, an important key lies in the hands of the European level. European policy must also be addressed. The federal level cannot deal with these problems alone, but needs the support of the European level. That is why, in our resolution, we are calling for European minimum wages to be achieved. I know this isn't easy. If we improve the conditions in the countries of origin, this will ensure that people in their home country can achieve a good standard of living and should not lend themselves to the abuse and exploitation of workers in their own country or abroad, so with us. We also call in the resolution for the creation of a list of unfair operators and service providers, along the lines of the civil aviation sector, where blacklists are used. That works very well. In this way, we can prevent them from participating in public procurement and the European Union. I have also put this proposal on the table at OSCE level and that has also been accepted. It is still important that the various countries work together in order to be able to detect fraud more effectively. It is also useful to examine whether social security contributions can not be collected from us first. At least we are sure that they will be paid and we avoid paying them nowhere and that this will allow people to be employed at low prices. We collect the contributions here and transfer them to the countries of origin because we are obliged to do so. Last but not least, we are also concerned about the budgetary framework within which the inspection services operate. Training, controls, more efficient cooperation and a rapid detection of a problem are only possible if we give sufficient priority to inspection services in the allocation of resources. We urge that this be done. That is also included in the resolution. No one will dispute that a larger investment in the inspection services will achieve a better result on the ground. This resolution sets out the direction for a number of possible solutions to the current problems we are experiencing with regard to the posting of foreign workers. I hope that all the levels involved, and in particular our federal government, will now quickly implement this resolution. You can be sure, Mr Secretary of State, that we will follow up on this implementation, both with you and with the other fellow Members involved, such as the Minister for Employment. There have already been many contacts at European level with Mrs Thyssen, who is very fond of the dossier. The slogan "Together Strong" is also valid here. We must work together to prevent the exploitation of people and social dumping. We need clear measures that have an impact on the ground. We in Parliament will also be watching this very closely. I would once again like to thank my fellow Members, first and foremost David Clarinval, for the initiative. Mr. Clarinval has brought us around the table. I would like to thank everyone from the majority, but also from the opposition, for their support. I would also like to thank those who have not contributed to the resolution, but who do wish to support it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u224	Mr President, like my colleague, I will speak on behalf of all the ecologists in the north and south of the country. As you know, and to get to the bottom of it, the Greens have been critical since the beginning of the Detachment of Workers Directive. Agree on the mobility of workers in Europe, but then on the same or similar social and wage conditions as in the host country. In this case, this is not at all the case, with the multiple consequences that we have been denouncing for a long time: exploitation of workers, destruction of entire economic sectors, general social degradation and pressure on social security. The only winners are those who exploit posted workers until the system turns against them. The reaction of many traditional parties, including European political groups, is very late. Unfortunately, it does not attach itself to the principle, which should guide the construction of a social Europe, of tending towards the logic "for equal work, equal pay". That is why we cannot fully follow the logic of the majority in this resolution. We want this phenomenon of social dumping to be combated, which is why we tabled a resolution on the same subject already under the previous legislature. But we believe that it is a social and societal impasse to want to align with the logic of the so-called salary, as advocated by the beginning of the resolution of the majority. For the rest, we can agree with a large number of principles aligned, but we regret the lack of ambition of the majority, particularly in relation to the level of constraints to be developed with regard to companies which use the posting of workers: the fact that they cannot resort to economic unemployment if they otherwise use posting; or the European ambition of revising the directive.What is Marianne Thyssen doing? That is why we are maintaining the amendments tabled in committee, without which we cannot support a resolution that is far too lukewarm in the face of the destruction of tens of thousands of jobs at home and in other European countries that are victims of social dumping. For the rest, Mr President, I refer to the excellent report which was transmitted earlier.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u225	Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as everyone has said, social dumping obviously has serious consequences for the health of our businesses and, in the long run, could also have serious consequences for our social security system. Beyond employment, this is an issue that I think is just as important. Beyond the major impact on our companies, the challenge of unfair competition, there are the challenges in relation to the working conditions of many posted workers, which are disastrous, whether in terms of wages, social protection or the dangerousness of jobs. We probably don't repeat it enough. A few figures were cited on wage losses, on the issue of safeguarding thousands of jobs in labour-intensive sectors such as construction and transport. I would like the Minister for Employment, who cannot be present today, to be vigilant. The Planning Office has developed a potential job creation table of 200,000 jobs by 2020. In order for Belgium to meet its European commitments by 2025, it should create 400 000 jobs. I recall that the Office of the Plan did not take the loss of jobs into account in its calculations. When the Plan Office announces an increase in employment of 14,000 units by the end of the legislature for the construction sector, it does not take into account the 20,000 jobs that could disappear in the same sector by the end of the legislature due to the problem of social dumping. At the macro-economic level, this obviously highlights the stakes that were already ahead of us yesterday and which awaits us even more today. If I joined the majority in this work, it is because I think, like the social partners, that it is our collective responsibility to transcend the majority-opposition divides, employers-unions, in order to advance what seems to me to be, more than ever, a common cause. There are a number of particularly important points which I would like to stress, namely: - the extension of joint and several liability, - the full and strict application of the legislation in force in our country, - the importance of strengthening the social inspection and the effectiveness of this social inspection, whether at the level of human resources or financial resources - and finally, the fact of being at the forefront on the European level. On this last point, Marianne Thyssen can surely play her full and complete role, provided that Belgium invests itself behind her, through a joint inspection, that is, a European inspection service, through the fight for the harmonisation of social standards, also through – and we have been able to make a positive change in the resolution in this direction – the social security contributions that must be paid in the country where the benefits are made, with a subsequent reimbursement to the country where the company is established. This is a point which was not initially included in the resolution and which, for us, was really fundamental. Colleagues, Minister, I would like to take this opportunity because this week is the Libramont Agricultural Fair. When we talk about social dumping, we think first of certain sectors. However, I believe that this is really an underestimation of the scale of the problem because, unfortunately, no sector can escape or escape it in the long run. When we talk about social dumping, we often talk about it only in one sense, that is, foreign workers come to Belgium. But another mechanism is again taking on far too much scope and is undermining the reality of the agriculture sector. That is why I obviously make the link with the agricultural fair in Libramont. We talked about it a few years ago with Germany, and it went through the trap. However, our slaughterhouses face major difficulties and I would like us to pay attention to them, Minister. This is not a dumping that brings Romanian workers to Belgium. It is a form of reverse social dumping, where animals are sent to slaughterhouses in Romania and carcasses return to Belgium. It is another form of social dumping that could put this sector at risk. This is, of course, indicative of the problem of labour costs and I would like to address my Socialist and Green colleagues to say that this resolution does not in any way want to align wages with the lowest wages in Europe. On the other hand, I want to point out that the cost of labour is an extremely important factor in dumping. And social dumping cannot be dealt with without advocating for a reduction in labour costs by reducing employer contributions or, more broadly, for an ambitious tax reform not only by reducing the cost of labour for businesses but also by increasing the tax-exempt quota. I know the government is working on it and I hope it won't disappoint us. Other formulas are possible but this one seems to me the easiest and most realistic so that the worker receives a higher net wage. These measures are just as fundamental as the effectiveness and strict application of existing laws in order to combat dumping more effectively. Perhaps in the coming days, decisions will be taken on tax reform, but I would like to take this opportunity to re-advocate strongly for ambitious, not incidental, tax reform.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u226	Mr President, I cannot, of course, sit here all afternoon without saying anything. I am glad that I was able to spend another afternoon in this parliamentary assembly, which is nostalgia for me. First of all, I am receiving a great deal of support for tackling social dumping in all areas, since the day I am in this government. I think that is important, and I also think it is important that Parliament should pay attention to this and support the government in doing so. In the meantime, we have not been idle and have already been able to discuss a number of issues in the resolution with the social partners at the round table on construction. For the sake of clarity, Mrs Lanjri, we have now completed the round table on construction with 40 measures. We now move on to the round table on transport. A number of other sectors sensitive to fraud are also being addressed. This will take place in the autumn. It is important that there is broad support, both for employers and employees, as well as for the administration and inspection, where there is a requesting party. A number of issues need to be settled at European level with the European Commissioner for Work, Mrs Thyssen. The contacts are good and we are trying to get movement in them. A number of things also have to be done at Benelux level, because a lot of people are coming in through Dutch employment agencies. Often these are fraudulent constructions. We can also set something in motion in this area. It is important that we have agreed 26 measures for the construction sector, which we ourselves can implement in our own country. We must, of course, do a number of things at European and international level, but we must also act on our own. That is why I would like to thank all those who have expressed their support for this resolution and those who are not yet fully convinced. I am sure that everyone in his heart wants the same thing, namely to step up the fight against social dumping.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u227	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The meeting's over. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u228	• 37 - Marco Van Hees (1111/10) • 43 - Jean-Marc Nollet cs (1111/10)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u229	******
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u230	The vote will be taken at the next voting r the amendments adopted and the proposal as a whole will take place later. The vote on the reserved amendments and on the whole proposal will take place at a later stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u231	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Stefaan Vercamer, Nahima Lanjri, Sonja Becq, Roel Deseyn.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u232	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur, Mr Lachaert, referred to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u233	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Secretary of State, I am pleased that you are still here to discuss this legislative proposal. The present bill on pay is a proposal for which the majority and opposition have worked together in a constructive way. It was also time for us to make work of the proposal on pay-as-you-go. The starting point of the legislative proposal is that the existing legislation, which dates back to 1965, had to be updated as a matter of urgency. According to the old law, the standard is that wages are still paid hand-to-hand, which is no longer the standard today. That's why it's an important bill. We don't know how many employees we're talking about. However, the estimates of the social secretariats show that one in twenty employees still do not receive their wages by transfer. We are convinced that this draft law is likely to take a step forward in terms of security, financial transparency and the difficulty of fraud. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, you know that social dialogue is very close to my heart. We have also respected the social dialogue here and asked for an opinion from the National Labour Council. On the basis of that opinion and in consultation with the administration, we have adapted some things, so that there is also a possibility of allowing exceptions, if necessary. I would like to thank everyone who has contributed to the drafting of this bill and to focus on its content. If we can work together in this way in Parliament between majority, opposition and government, then we are going to achieve a lot of beautiful things.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u234	Mr President, Mr Vercamer, this measure is not in my 40-point action plan, but I also welcome it in the fight against fraud, both social and fiscal, for which I thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u235	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u236	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (314/10) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (314/10) The bill has 4 articles. The bill has 4 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u237	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u238	Proposals tabled by: Proposals submitted by: - 325: Nathalie Muylle, Jef Van den Bergh, Leen Dierick, Griet Smaers, Caroline Cassart-Mailleux, Rita Gantois, Werner Janssen, Frank Wilrycx, Sabien Lahaye-Battheu - 896: Sabien Lahaye-Battheu, Frank Wilrycx, Patricia Ceysens. I propose that a single discussion be devoted to these two legislative proposals. I propose that you devote one discussion to these two bills.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u239	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mr Wilrycx and Mrs Smaers, rapporteurs, referred to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u240	Mr President, I would like to speak very briefly to thank, once again, the majority parliamentarians for having agreed to refer the text back to committee last week and thus to allow it to be further improved by incorporating an amendment which I tabled at the Conference of Presidents and which was co-signed by others, the aim of this amendment being that this text could enter into force more quickly than originally planned. The intent and content were good. The timetable is now speeding up. I am very pleased with that and wanted to report it at the end of the day.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u241	Mr President, I would like to thank my fellow Members for their support for this legislative initiative, which I believe is appropriate. The 1988 law was already a very good thing to ensure the continuity of agricultural holdings through the preferential right to take over. However, this law was somewhat overtaken by reality, which wants agricultural holdings to be taken over already before the farmer's death. The latter gave rise to practical problems. We have now drawn up a system which gives preference to take-over rights even in the event of an early transfer. It can also be chosen to leave only part of the real estate. In this way we adapt to current events and can avoid a lot of legal disputes in families. With this initiative, which I believe is very commendable, we can ensure continuity for this important business activity.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u242	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u243	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (325/10) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (325/10) The title was amended by the Committee in its proposal for a law amending the law of 29 August 1988 on the farm inheritance scheme with a view to promoting continuity." The title has been amended by the Commission in order to propose a law amending the Act of 29 August 1988 on the inheritance of agricultural holdings with a view to promoting their continuity". The bill has 4 articles. The bill has 4 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-22-54-plenair-ip066x.u244	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Thursday, 23 July 2015, at 10.15 a.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 23 July 2015 at 10.15 a.m.
