ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-20-54-commissie-ic057x.u1	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Rob Van de Velde's 320 is converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-20-54-commissie-ic057x.u2	Mr President, Minister, as we know, the situation of public and political freedoms in Burundi is not the most satisfactory. In fact, you and the government have spoken about this and have frequently deplored it. Belgium, as Burundi's first bilateral donor, is a thousand times right to increase the diplomatic pressure it exerts on the local authorities so that they are more open and tolerant towards the peaceful opponents of the present government. Every effort must be made to ensure that the political debate can be held under as free conditions as possible in preparation for the presidential elections in July 2015. According to a statement by your predecessor, Mr. Labelle, who spoke on the margins of the United Nations General Assembly that took place at the end of September, the question would be, after assessing the criteria of good governance, to put our pressure on Bujumbura by threatening to cease our assistance in the field of justice and police. Minister, do you confirm the accuracy of this information? Are justice and the police the only issues affected by this threat of suspension of aid? In Africa, justice and the police are obviously two extremely important bodies that can stabilize the country. If this pressure were to be exerted in these particular sectors, if Belgium dropped these two extremely important missions, there would be a risk of overburdening Burundi in a delicate period. In this region of the world, many movements are currently taking place in the Congo, Burundi and the borders of Rwanda. I wanted to hear from you about that. Do you not believe that a policy of threat of suspension of aid in the field of justice and police is a risk to Burundi?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-20-54-commissie-ic057x.u3	Madam, thank you for this question. As you know, my colleague Mr Didier Reynders and I visited Burundi and Rwanda last week. This issue has been discussed. Projects to consolidate Belgian interventions in this sector were planned at the time of the release of the incentive tranche. For the police, a new consolidation intervention was approved this year by my predecessor. This intervention, the implementation of which begins, does indeed include a specific governance criterion in consultation with the Netherlands, which provides additional financial support. If this criterion regarding the implementation of a police force is not met or if human rights violations are found, the project may be suspended. As far as justice is concerned, I have not yet approved the consolidation project. A first instalment will be released unconditionally to consolidate the achievements of the previous phases. But the bulk of the planned budget can only be released on the basis of compliance with the governance criteria. Indeed, the independence of Burundi's justice system remains weak. These are regalian and politically important sectors, as you said. In Burundi's pre-electoral context, these actors can be used to reduce the political space in Burundi. It is therefore necessary to send clear messages to the Burundian authorities. Belgium is ready to support these sensitive sectors, but not at any price. A rights-based approach is one of my priorities. However, most of our aid goes to social sectors in Burundi, including agriculture, health and education. I remain fully aware of the complex situation in Belgium. A halt in our support for these sectors could be counterproductive. They are fundamental to the construction of a rule of law. Belgium continues to support these sectors, but it must send strong messages to the Burundian authorities in consultation with other international actors active in Burundi. These governance criteria are also used to create credibility for these messages. In conclusion, I refer to my policy statement. We want to encourage progress, steps forward. We are ready to support independent and professional justice in Burundi, but we will only do so if it is truly independent and professional justice. However, if we look back, we will have to reconsider that support.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-20-54-commissie-ic057x.u4	Minister, I am glad to have heard you and, above all, to know that you will already release the first tranche. I think this is important because we know that the BTC has nevertheless acquired legal expertise in these countries and some legitimacy. We know the process is slow. I have a son who worked there for a long time. I therefore know how important Belgium's commitment is. I believe that Belgium must continue to invest, but I have heard the criteria. You are also right on this point. Every effort must be made to ensure the conditions of good governance in Burundi. Both this country and Belgium will win.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-20-54-commissie-ic057x.u5	Mr President, Minister, in early December 2014, the World Food Programme (WFP) was forced to suspend aid to more than 1.7 million Syrian refugees in Lebanon, Jordan, Turkey, Iraq and Egypt. Since then, you have made some statements. In addition, there has been a mobilization of private funds, with WFP facing a range of challenges, including the Ebola epidemic. Minister, can you confirm Belgium's commitment to WFP? Could a complementary commitment be made? What are the prospects for the future? What is the current situation for WFP? Have all States that had committed themselves to the latter fulfilled their commitments?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-20-54-commissie-ic057x.u6	Mr President, Minister, the World Food Programme announced at the beginning of December that it was forced to suspend its food aid to Syrian refugees in Turkey, Iraq, Lebanon, Jordan and Egypt. This action had to be taken by WFP because of a lack of funding and donations from individual States. At least that's what was said at the time. Despite the warning given in September, €53.1 million was missing in December to continue the assistance provided to Syrian refugees. The end of aid concerns some 1.7 million Syrian refugees already living in conditions of extreme insecurity. In addition, we are in the middle of winter and the conditions on site are even more difficult. Moreover, the cessation of this food aid for Syrian refugees only increases the risk of tension in the host countries. I am thinking in particular of Lebanon, where a quarter of the population is made up of refugees. Therefore, Minister, can you make an inventory of the Belgian and European position on humanitarian aid to Syria and Syrian refugees? Can you make the budget inventory in this area? What are the main actors responsible for aid coordination in this region? Are humanitarian actors other than WFP active there? Is there specific support for children, including such areas as protection, medical care, water and food supply and access to education?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-20-54-commissie-ic057x.u7	Mr President, Minister, the context of the story has already been outlined by my fellow Members, and I will not repeat it. I have the following questions. Has Belgium also promised to contribute to the WFP? How much was it about? Was that contribution actually paid? After all, the major problem for the WFP was that a number of promises were not fulfilled. Is there any possibility for Belgium to make an extra effort in view of the precarious situation? What budget could that possibly come from? Belgium makes an annual contribution to the High Commissioner for Refugees. This was reflected in the reply given by Minister Reynders to a question from Mrs Demol during the previous legislature. Do we also make an annual contribution to the WFP? Does the WFP ask to work in the same way as the High Commissioner for Refugees?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-20-54-commissie-ic057x.u8	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the World Food Programme did indeed sound the alarm, because several countries had failed to fulfil their commitments. All commitments to WFP funding made by Belgium have been honoured and the full amount pledged has been paid. Since the beginning of the Syrian crisis, our total contribution to Syria and its region has been nearly 20 million. With regard to WFP in particular, and in 2014 alone, EUR 9 950,000 was paid to WFP. We have based our humanitarian action on the most urgent needs faced by the Syrian population: health, food and nutrition assistance and the protection of civilians. On the budget line dedicated to contributions to flexible humanitarian funds, the WFP Immediate Response Account (IIF) was financed to the tune of €7,250,000. In particular, this fund allows for the financing of imminent food disruptions in order to maintain its operations. Unlike UNHCR, the World Food Programme does not receive a voluntary contribution to the organisation's general resources. As explained above, the WFP remains rather an inevitable humanitarian partner supported by Belgium. Belgium has not yet received a request from the WFP for core financing. We are also making an extra effort for Syria and the surrounding countries. On the 2014 budget line "Humanitarian projects', Belgium contributed a total of EUR 8 135 898 through the following NGOs and international humanitarian organisations. For the World Food Programme it is the following amount. Two million are spent on the food security assistance operation for the most vulnerable in Syria. These two amounts, the 7.5 million I mentioned earlier and the 2 million, represent more or less the 10 million discussed. OXFAM also has €252,148 for Syrian refugees in Jordan. For Caritas, this is EUR 533 750 for Syrian and Palestinian refugees and local host communities in Lebanon. For UNRWA, this amounts to EUR 1 350 000 for Palestinian refugees inside and outside Syria, as well as for those suffering from the conflict in Jordan and Gaza. For Unicef, it is EUR 3 500 000 for assistance to vulnerable children in Syria. This project also includes activities to address the acute malnutrition of children and displaced mothers. As you know, this year we will maintain the amount specifically allocated to humanitarian aid at the same level, i.e. around EUR 150 million, despite budgetary pressure. Syria and its region are among the complex crises of priority for Belgium. It is clear that WFP is a key player in food security. The organisation will therefore be taking into account for funding planned for 2015. I am also analysing this file. The decision has not yet been made, but is imminent. In this regard, it should also be noted that food aid affected by the breakdown of WFP resources in recent months is issued in the form of cash and food cheques. The WFP Cash and Voucher platform is an example of effective and modern aid that takes into account local market conditions. In partnership with financial and telecom players, its effects are very positive for the local economy. It should be noted that, in such situations, working in the form of conventional aid by sending food items often has the side effects of destroying the local market. Using this method of cash and voucher, the population is helped without destroying the dynamics of the local market.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-20-54-commissie-ic057x.u9	Mr. Chairman, my reply will be short since the Minister's commitments are very clear and meet our expectations, with a particular focus on Syria and its refugees. Mr Minister, I think we should argue for permanent and recurrent funding from the WFP, but I know that this is not just a matter for Belgium. As you have just said, it is a little bit during the small week that WFP receives funding from private partners. It should be fed structurally by the UN, as its other agencies are, with a contribution from States and possibly with peaks in the event of a particular crisis. This would ensure some sustainability, as early in December WFP found itself unable to cope with the winter. Thank you for your commitment to this issue and for maintaining the funds.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-20-54-commissie-ic057x.u10	WFP is not seeking stable and ongoing funding, so-called core funding. WFP has a funding approach based on specific elements, depending on events. The situation may change but, for the time being, WFP is not an applicant.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-20-54-commissie-ic057x.u11	Minister, thank you for this inventory of assistance. I am reassured about the commitments, as you will decide to continue this assistance. Syria is in a complex crisis situation, as you said yourself. That must remain our priority. We need to be attentive to all the needs there.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-20-54-commissie-ic057x.u12	Thank you, Minister, for the detailed figures. It is very positive that you report that you wish to maintain the same level. This is particularly important for the region concerned. I am also pleased that Belgium has kept its promises; it is very important to show us as a reliable partner vis-à-vis abroad.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-20-54-commissie-ic057x.u13	In the meantime, Mr De Roover has joined us. I give him the floor for his question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-20-54-commissie-ic057x.u14	Mr President, I apologise for the small delay that prevented me from being here on time. Thank you for your understanding. Minister, the situation in Syria has just been outlined. So we do not need to repeat ourselves on this point. We can say that the humanitarian disaster there is almost incontrovertible. I would like to refer specifically to the fate of the people who are victims of violence in the region of Rojava. Quite a few of them have just fled to the other side of the border, namely to the Turkish part of what they call Kurdistan. In the south, some of them are in Turkish refugee camps. The majority is located in municipalities where mayors of the pro-Kurdish HDP party are active. They have launched initiatives, but as local administrators, they are, of course, rather limited in their ability to do so. The number of refugees is estimated to be about 180 000 refugees. There too, however, winter is on its way. This means that we have received signals from the Kurdish Institute that there is still little evidence of international aid locally, partly because it goes through Ankara, Damascus or Baghdad and from there it is difficult to find its way to the region itself. The organisation Doctors Without Borders has also resounded a cry for help. That is why I have the following specific questions. Is Belgian humanitarian aid planned for the Kurdish and other refugees in that region, especially just across the border on the Kurdish side? Is this about direct aid or is it happening at European or UN level? What guarantees do we have that aid will actually reach the refugees and will not stay on the road? Is there a direct contact with local mayors for the use of humanitarian aid resources? Is there any contact via the United Nations with the local authorities over there? Does Belgium have a say in the final destination of these funds, both in the field of aid through the United Nations and in the aid that would go through Europe?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-20-54-commissie-ic057x.u15	We have two principles on humanitarian aid. The aid always goes through multilateral organisations or NGOs. It is also important to know that the basic principle of humanitarian aid is always a complete political neutrality. If this is not the case, the effectiveness of humanitarian aid is often put at risk. A number of things you mention are difficult to do because we want to be able to continue to apply these two basic principles. The UN has developed a 2014 strategic response plan for Syria. This plan will ensure that the various humanitarian organisations present on the ground work together to ensure the humanitarian response as effectively and as quickly as possible. The 2014 strategic plan for Syria, called SHARP, has estimated its needs at USD 2.2 billion. To date, the total amount of contributions paid by donors has been USD 1 billion. So 46 % of the demand has already been met. Belgium has a principled approach to humanitarian aid and relies on the needs analysis of the recognised humanitarian actors: OCHA, the Red Cross and ECHO. Belgium wants to reduce the level of ear marking and therefore finances humanitarian response plans at the level of the country itself. Belgium assumes that the actors present on the ground are better able to identify the most priority needs and to respond more quickly. If minorities are considered to be the most vulnerable group, they will receive humanitarian aid. The same applies to the Kurds. In order to ensure the impartiality of humanitarian aid and to ensure the security of beneficiaries and humanitarian aid workers, Belgium does not intervene directly in the humanitarian dialogues conducted with the authorities. At European level, there is a constant dialogue between ECHO and the Member States on the evolution of the humanitarian crisis in Syria and on European humanitarian funding. Belgium is expected to provide a substantive and financial report for all humanitarian interventions financed by Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-20-54-commissie-ic057x.u16	Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister for his reply and for his confirmation that the necessary commitments are being made for humanitarian aid. I'd like to point out a point of pain. I understand the starting point for working through NGOs, given the element of political neutrality, but on the ground some of the major NGOs are not active there. So we are actually organizing detours because in some regions NGOs do not organise operations, and that is at the heart of the question. This also applies to the specific case I mentioned. Following on from my question, I would like to say that we must think about what we are doing with regions where NGOs cannot actually provide the help we would like to offer on the ground. The fine principles, which I do not dispute as such, are perhaps an obstacle to doing what we really want to do.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-20-54-commissie-ic057x.u17	Mr President, Minister, as we know, the international community has taken a long time to respond to the Ebola epidemic, perhaps because it has been heavily underestimated. Since then, the delay has been caught. Indeed, Liberia is now out of danger. That said, it is massive assistance in all forms that must be coordinated, not without harm, by WHO. Health experts are formal: emergency response, training of medical personnel in a very short time and exceeding the limits of what they thought was possible and achievable in the treatment of patients, taking many risks. The same experts agree that the priority, if we are to stop epidemics, especially the Ebola epidemic, is to focus, initially, exclusively on the medical aspect. As is well known, this epidemic has a very serious impact on all aspects of society, including economic and social aspects. Indeed, the countries concerned, often already very fragile, will have to face up to Ebola and work towards its reconstruction. Minister, I hear the arguments put forward by the medical staff. However, it is essential to draw up an exit plan in consultation with all the actors involved in order to relaunch the functioning of the affected countries, once the virus is controlled. In this context, can you tell me what is planned? The same experts also explain that colossal emergency funds have been made available to fight Ebola, which, of course, they welcome. However, they regret that these budgets are allocated only when critical situations such as the one in question arise. They also expressed concern about Belgium's budgetary restrictions on cooperation. As you mentioned yourself in your policy statement, contagious diseases saturate fragile health systems in areas with a high population concentration. How do you intend to participate effectively in the development of these health systems to enable better care for patients, regardless of the care required? Do you not think that, in doing so, we could more easily contain this kind of epidemic in the future? Finally, you said you would "better with less". How, in this concrete case, do you intend to do so?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-20-54-commissie-ic057x.u18	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we believe that prevention is better than cure in the event of a crisis, although some health crises sometimes arise unexpectedly. Prepositioning of emergency funds, humanitarian actors and well-organised health systems is, of course, the best prevention. For example, in the area of humanitarian aid, Belgium has maintained its budget in the same way for 2015, i.e. EUR 150 million. In 2014, it contributed nearly €40 million to 5 projects in the field, as well as to a number of flexible funds from international humanitarian organisations relevant to the fight against the epidemic. These include the OCHA Central Emergency Response Fund, the FAO Special Emergency and Rehabilitation Fund, the World Food Programme Immediate Response Account and the International Federation of the Red Cross Disaster Relief Fund. With regard to resilience and the exit of crises, it is indeed essential to draw up a plan with all the actors involved. As part of the division of labour, the United States, the United Kingdom and France are focusing their coordination efforts on Liberia, Sierra Leone and Guinea, respectively. The exit of the crisis based on the strengthening of health systems and the strategy advocated by the European Union and Belgium are part of this approach. In this context, a programme complementary to the B-Fast mission in Guinea will soon be launched in partnership with UNICEF for an amount of €1.5 million. Its objective will be to ensure access to and testing of health centres in the region, especially women and children. Although none of the three most affected countries are among the partner countries for government development cooperation, we are currently evaluating these partnerships as provided for in the government agreement. In addition, some partner countries in the subregion, such as Mali and Senegal, have had cases to manage and develop response plans with WHO support. This is also the case in Benin. Our attention is directed primarily to these countries for lasting strengthening after the crisis. In 2014, in particular for WHO, €7.3 million was allocated to flexible funds, half of which were earmarked to support health systems. In addition, €1.5 million is allocated for research on poverty-related diseases, such as Ebola. The same contributions are expected in 2015. If there is a major link to Belgian development cooperation in the field of health since the Alma Ata Conference on Primary Health Care in 1978, it is indeed support for national health systems. This was, moreover, the foundation of the formation of the Institute of Tropical Medicine in Antwerp, which is now a kind of reference for our cooperation, a Belgian expertise with partner countries and international organisations. Let us note in this respect that the three countries that have received Belgian support for their health care system in the past and that have had to deal with this Ebola epidemic have done well! Let us hope that this is the case for Senegal, Mali and the Democratic Republic of the Congo until the end of this crisis!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-20-54-commissie-ic057x.u19	Minister, thank you for your very comprehensive answer. I would like to stress that this region is particularly sensitive, with Boko Haram in the vicinity. An effort by Belgium, but also by all European countries, must be made to counter the causes – especially poverty – that generate groups such as Boko Haram.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-20-54-commissie-ic057x.u20	Minister, you have made respect for human rights a central issue in your policy paper. When discussing the policy paper, I referred to a report by Amnesty International dated 24 November 2014 in which the practices of the Belgian mining company Forrest in Congo were scorched. In 2009, Forrest had hundreds of houses cleaned up in the Congolese village of Kawama and then leveled them to the ground. The Groupe Forrest denied his involvement in the tragic events for years. Moreover, Forrest has still not paid compensation to the affected inhabitants. Amnesty International is now coming up with irrefutable evidence against Forrest and I think it is urgent that we remind the Belgian multinational of its duties. During the discussion of your policy paper, I asked you to contact both the Congolese Government and the mining company Forrest. Which of the two steps have you taken in the meantime? What was the response of the Congolese Government? What was the reaction of the Groupe Forrest?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-20-54-commissie-ic057x.u21	Mr Van der Maelen, on 25 November 2014, an Amnesty International delegation presented and explained the report to which you refer at the Foreign Affairs Office. As notified to the Amnesty International delegation during the consultations, the report was sent by official mail to our diplomatic posts in Kinshasa and Lubumbashi. In addition, the follow-up to the recommendations on page 30 of the report will be examined in conjunction with the relevant services of Foreign Affairs. So I ordered the embassy to take action. It will also be one of the elements I will be able to discuss with our diplomatic services during my visit with Minister Didier Reynders to Congo at the end of next month. As far as I know, the Congolese Government has not responded to the publication of the report. The Groupe Forrest International distributed a press release on 24 November. The press release is available on the group's website. You probably read that already.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-20-54-commissie-ic057x.u22	On your return from Congo, Minister, I will ask you again whether you raised the issue and what the response was because of the Congolese Government. I do not need to remind you, Minister, that the government agreement states that action will be taken on business and human rights issues. This is a clear example of a Belgian company that has violated fundamental rights. The credibility of the coalition agreement on this point will depend on the way in which such incidents are dealt with. I intend to continue to question the government and all the members of the government who are competent in this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-20-54-commissie-ic057x.u23	Minister, human rights, it is your theme and mine too. The issue that is at the heart of this House is the human rights of Members of Parliament. Through this question I would like to draw your attention to a remarkable study of statistics recently published by the Interparliamentary Union on the worldwide violation of the rights of Members of Parliament. In 2014, 13 % more cases were registered. This concerns death, torture, threats, arbitrary arrest and detention, the absence of a fair trial, the violation of freedom of expression, unlawful suspension or loss of parliamentary mandate. It is equally striking that some of our partner countries, Burundi, the Democratic Republic of Congo and Rwanda, have very poor figures in this study. The Congo crowns with no less than 36 cases of violations of the rights of Members of Parliament. This situation also applies to Israel, although it is a special case, because it concerns 36 Palestinian Members of Parliament who are in Israeli prisons. I know Israel is not our partner country, but it is closely involved in Palestine, which is a partner country. Israel also deserves to be tapped. Parliament is a very important instrument for controlling central government. Good governance is one of the key issues in our foreign policy. MEPs play an important role in this. When Members of Parliament are silenced, any form of democratic control over the government is difficult or impossible. I would like to have an answer to a few questions. Firstly, are you prepared to point out, in each of your contacts with government members from one of the partner countries mentioned, the violation of the rights of Members of Parliament in their country? Will you do this at your upcoming work visits? You said earlier that you are going to Congo soon. Has this problem also been addressed in Rwanda and Burundi? Secondly, are you prepared to protest against the violation of the rights of Members of Parliament in the DRC, Burundi, Rwanda and Israel on the basis of the figures of the Interparliamentary Union in the name of the Belgian Government?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-20-54-commissie-ic057x.u24	Madam President, Mr Van der Maelen, in reply to your first question, I do intend to discuss human rights and the political area at every visit to our partner countries. I have done so recently in Rwanda and Burundi, and I will do so in the DRC in February. Human rights have been a priority theme for Belgian Development Cooperation since the new law of 19 March 2013. In my policy, I would also like to give more explicit consideration to a rights approach, as a real response to development challenges is not possible without taking into account internationally recognised and accepted human rights, including civil and political rights. I will therefore make systematic use of the bilateral talks with partner countries to raise human rights issues. If we see that the human rights situation is deteriorating in a country, Belgium must not turn its head. This does not mean that we must stop cooperation whenever something goes wrong. However, we must be prepared to opt for a different way of cooperation in the event of a relapse, for example by focusing on strengthening civil society rather than working directly with the government. To stop cooperation means to stop the dialogue, and I do not wish to do so at all. Currently, Belgian Development Cooperation supports the Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights, and hence the work on human rights of the United Nations. This organisation has the mandate to protect and promote human rights, to prevent infringements and to build capacity in the field of human rights. In 2014, Belgium contributed EUR 800 000 to the general operating resources of this organisation. This organisation has teams in a number of partner countries, such as the DRC, Burundi, Rwanda and Palestine. The information provided by this organization also contributes to the report of the IPU. I intend to look more closely at the funding of this organisation and other human rights organisations and see how we can support them in particular in our partner countries, including in areas that are obvious to us. Consideration will also be given to the violation of the democratic functioning of parliaments and of members of parliament, especially in the run-up to elections in many of our partner countries. I am planning a working visit to the DRC, where human rights, in particular civil and political rights, will be among my points of discussion.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-20-54-commissie-ic057x.u25	Thank you, Minister, for your commitment. I'll keep your promises.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-20-54-commissie-ic057x.u26	Madam President, Minister, I would like to ask you about the monthly tax of 40 000 euros imposed by the Congolese government at the hospital in Panzi. This hospital, founded in 1998, is infamous for the essential care that doctors provide to young girls who are victims of rape. This amount corresponds to the retroactive effect until 2012 of a ministerial decree passed last November which taxes the revenues and donations enjoyed by the hospital. If this amount were actually collected, such taxation would prevent the payment of staff and the purchase of the medicines necessary for that establishment but also within other hospital facilities. Minister, what is your position with regard to this decision of the Congolese authorities? Have you ever had any interviews with them on this subject? How, in what forms and with what budgets, is Belgian Cooperation active in the health care sector in the DRC and more specifically in this region? Are these projects and programmes affected by this new Ministerial Order?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-20-54-commissie-ic057x.u27	Minister, my colleague has already mentioned the situation. The continued existence of the famous Panzi Hospital in East Congo by the acclaimed Dr Denis Mukwege has been threatened. The Congolese government imposed a monthly tax of EUR 40 000 on the hospital located in Bukavu. Until that amount has been paid, the government has seized the bank account, which means that the hospital can no longer pay its 500 employees. Human rights activist and gynecologist Dr Mukwege therefore fears for his life's work, as he founded the hospital during the civil war in 1998. In the hospital, mostly girls are operated on who are victims of rape and also of genital mutilation. They also receive psychic and legal assistance. Over the last 15 years, more than 30 000 women have been treated as raped women, which is a good thing. Even today, rape remains a common weapon in the armed conflict-torn area. For his fight for the protection of women, Mukwege has often been distinguished internationally, but within Congo he is also often opposed and threatened. The Congolese Government is not set up with global attention to the problems of rape in the country, because often the perpetrators are also Congolese soldiers. As has already been mentioned, the workers are also stirring. They have argued for the regional office of taxation against what they call discrimination by the regime. Also some regional NGOs in South Kivu have asked the government to unblock the accounts so that the hospital can return to normal functioning. Minister, you have already asked the Congolese Government in a communication to refrain from the monthly tax. Have you received a response from the Congolese government? What will you do if the Congolese Government does not drop the measure? Are there any compelling steps? Will you also urge your European colleagues to put pressure on the Congolese Government to remove this tax?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-20-54-commissie-ic057x.u28	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have called on the Congolese Government to refrain from paying the monthly tax of more than EUR 40 000 to the Panzi hospital in Eastern Congo. The Ambassador made a demarche to the Minister for Health on my question. At the Panzi Hospital, Dr. Mukwege and his team are treating victims of serious sexual assault injuries. The Belgian Development Cooperation supports the work of Dr Mukwege and the assistance of the Panzi Hospital. Over the past 15 years, more than 30 000 women have been treated after brutally raped. Although the war is officially over today, East Congo continues to be plagued by armed conflicts, including rape of women as a weapon. The tax puts the care of rape victims at risk. By diplomatic means, the Belgian ambassador in Kinshasa contacted several Congolese ministers. Our ambassador has also called for the attention of his European colleagues and the representation at the United Nations on the issue. It draws attention to the humanitarian importance of Dr Mukwege's actions and the important role played by the Panzi hospital in the reception of victims of sexual violence. The representative of the European Union in Kinshasa also had a meeting with the Director-General of the Congolese tax authorities. The talks show that the dispute between the Congolese Directorate Générale des Impôts and the Panzi Hospital dates from 2012 and revolves around the recognition of the status as hôpital général de référence, which is contested by the Congolese tax authorities and the Minister of Health of the Province of South Kivu. The Congolese tax authorities claim approximately $900 000 as a tax on the premiums paid by the Panzi hospital to the staff, on top of the very poor salary charged by the Congolese government, about $50 a month. Now that the Panzi hospital is no longer recognized as hôpital général de référence, it is considered to be a private hospital and should be taxed retroactively on the premiums paid by the Panzi hospital. After payment of some of the taxes claimed, the bank accounts at Panzi Hospital were released. Meanwhile, the Director-General of the Directorate-General of Taxes has asked his provincial management in South Kivu no longer to demand payment of these taxes for humanitarian reasons. Until 2012, Belgium provided financial support of 170,000 euros to the hospital in Panzi. In addition, we support humanitarian and multilateral institutions that follow this issue. So there seems to be a solution to the tax problems facing the Panzi hospital. I will continue to follow up on the matter. Dr. Mukwege and the Panzi Hospital receive international recognition for the difficult work done by the doctor and his staff in East Congo. In 2011 Dr. Mukwege received the Koning Boudewijn Prize for Development in Brussels. In October 2014, the European Parliament awarded the Sakharov Prize to the Congolese doctor for his fight for the protection of women.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-20-54-commissie-ic057x.u29	Minister, thank you for that clarification. The work done at Panzi Hospital, mainly by Dr. Mukwege, is truly remarkable. I am pleased to hear you say that you will follow this file carefully to see if our country could possibly provide more specific assistance to this hospital. We will also follow this file carefully.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-20-54-commissie-ic057x.u30	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. I am pleased that many actions have already been taken, not only by Belgium but also at European and international level. You have just announced, in response to a question from Mr Dirk Van der Maelen, that you are going to Congo. It might be interesting, and at least symbolic, to visit the hospital. I don't know if that's included in your program. This would send a clear signal from Belgium that we appreciate Dr Mukwege's work and that we are on the side of women who are victims.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-20-54-commissie-ic057x.u31	Minister, in November 2014, Sensoa announced its analysis of federal spending on sexual reproduction and health rights and HIV prevention for 2013. Generally speaking, there is a decline in this expenditure. This is rather worrying, especially in the light of your policy paper, in which you point out that these rights and prevention are very important in your policy in the following years. In addition, Sensoa also points out that it was difficult to make a good analysis, because it is not always clear what expenditure can be associated with the fight for SRGR and HIV prevention. I have checked that myself and I have to admit that it was indeed not that easy. That is why I have the following questions for you. Is that drop a one-time thing? Although it is about 2013, it is about the previous legislature. Perhaps I will give the answer myself, and that is of course not my intention. Are you planning to counteract that trend? Given the difficulties in the analysis, will you ensure greater transparency in the expenditure budget? Will you, in parallel with the priorities set out in your policy paper, indicate in concrete terms how and where these matters are targeted? The justification of the general expenditure budget stated that an evaluation of the Belgian contribution to gender mainstreaming would be finalised in September 2014. Is that indeed the case? Could you possibly deliver it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-20-54-commissie-ic057x.u32	As you point out, Sensoa's analysis reflects my predecessor's policy in the previous government. As regards the decrease in federal expenditure on sexual, reproductive and health rights and HIV prevention for 2013, it is true that, compared to 2012, although development cooperation expenditure slightly increased, expenditure on health interventions as a main sector has decreased. This has reduced the share of health interventions from 14,27 % to 11,18 % of the total federal expenditure of the Foreign Affairs and Development Cooperation Office. This is solely due to the savings on voluntary contributions to multilateral organisations to compensate for increased multilateral contributions to the European Development Funds and the bank, regional development banks and environmental conventions. We therefore hope that these banks will also contribute to the financing of health projects. We must also admit that, bearing in mind the Paris Declaration, Accra and Busan, it is up to the partner countries to set their priorities. In doing so, these countries often choose to direct unintended aid towards less assisted sectors than the health sector, which is usually heavily supported by earmarked funds. The European Commission has informed us that it has the same problem with its funds. Belgium remains committed to using 0,7% of GDP for development cooperation, with a net of 13% for strengthening the universal coverage of health care, as recommended by OECD countries. It is difficult to make a good analysis because it is not always clear what expenditure can be associated with the fight for SRGR and HIV prevention. That is a fact, but that also has a reason and Sensoa's report does not touch this issue with the invisible expenditure on reproductive health. The reason is that, as the World Health Organisation stated in its World Health Report 2008, integrated services are much more efficient than specific services and are mainly used by mothers and children. Belgian aid therefore shifts more from support for specific programmes to national health systems. Thus, part of the support for sexual and reproductive care is gradually shifting to hidden spending for the benefit of sexual and reproductive care within the support for health systems. This does not mean that there is less support for sexual and reproductive care, rather on the contrary, but the support is less substantial. This prevents the lives of mother and child saved by adapted care for childbirth from being lost, for example by malaria or ebola. The current Ebola crisis is now raging in countries where health systems have been affected by constant unrest. In those countries, more women and children are now dying from malaria and a lack of care during childbirth, because health systems have been further reduced by the Ebola epidemic. An integrated and horizontal approach to SRHR and HIV may reduce the visibility of SRHR and HIV efforts, but the impact and sustainability of efforts will be significantly enhanced. Since the analysis on the basis of expenditure must therefore no longer be so marked, we are moving towards other means. An evaluation by the ITM on the use of the policy paper on sexual and reproductive health and rights was concluded a year ago, and work is now under way on the implementation of the recommendations, in cooperation with Be-cause health. In concrete terms, short focus points are being developed for users on the ground. An e-learning module will also be developed for future policy staff and development staff. Together with the BTC and an intern, we are also working on a qualitative, limited study of the opinion of users in the field about the Belgian support to Niger, for example, in the field of sexual and reproductive care. The complementary use of more unintended support with more earmarked specific non-governmental projects was also recommended. In the formulation of programme performance plans with the BTC, together with the partner, we identify a limited number of indicators for SRHR that are relevant and allow us to monitor progress on the impact of programme performance plans on SRHR. On 12 November 2014, the Directorate-General for Development Cooperation received the synthesis report of the Gender and Development Evaluation in Belgian cooperation from the Department for Special Evaluation of Development Cooperation. The Directorate-General provides a management response to the evaluation recommendations at this time. The evaluation shall be published and communicated to Parliament together with that management response.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-20-54-commissie-ic057x.u33	Mr President, Minister, the most important thing is, of course, the result on the ground in the partner countries. If that calls for a more integrated approach, I think that is also the most efficient approach. It remains, of course, that it is appropriate to make it as transparent as possible vis-à-vis Parliament. I hope that you will take this into account in the future and that you will give us the right information in the most transparent way possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-20-54-commissie-ic057x.u34	Minister, on Tuesday 9 December De Standaard reported in a less optimistic way about the disagreement at European level about the introduction of a financial transaction tax. The financial transaction tax and/or tobin tax is a topic that has been for decades for discussion. Following the 2008 banking crisis, the discussion at European level shifted from a pure currency transaction tax to a much broader financial transaction tax that includes other types of financial transactions. It was a good thing that the European Commission also started to promote this tax, but these released funds would be linked to the European Union's multi-annual funding and thus not directly used for development aid, which was originally intended. In the meantime, however, I understand that at European level the introduction of such a levy is beyond death and that at present there is only symbolism left. However, the impossibility of establishing a sound European framework in the short term does not have to be an objection to reconsidering this step in our own country. On 19 November 2004, our country adopted a law introducing a charge on currency exchange, banknotes and coins. This law will not enter into force until an agreement is reached within the euro area. More recently, in June 2011, a resolution was adopted in the Senate on a tax on financial transactions. It stated its intention to use the revenue generated by it for policy areas with a development dimension such as climate change, addressing global health challenges and combating poverty, which was also the original intention of the tobin tax. On the basis of these reservations, Minister, I would like to ask you the following. Where do you stand with regard to the steps taken by Belgium in the past to introduce such a levy and use the revenue generated for issues with a development dimension? What initiatives, which are in line with the spirit of the actions mentioned above, will you take to give particular attention to this issue? New financial levers will be needed to pursue a social and sustainable world. What alternative forms of financing, through levies that can generate additional revenue, could, in your view, be used in the policy areas with a development dimension? There is a great deal of uncertainty about the allocation of revenue from the financial transaction tax at European level. For example, there is a good chance that these revenues will disappear in the European budget. Have you already raised this problem at the Council of Ministers? What attitude does our government take to its destiny?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-20-54-commissie-ic057x.u35	In the past, Belgium has made a voluntaristic effort to introduce a tax on financial transactions and to use revenue for development purposes. The Law of 19 November 2004 on the introduction of a similar charge on currency exchange, banknotes and coins has advocated a use for development cooperation, for the promotion of social and environmental justice and for the preservation and protection of international public goods. I still think that is a responsible choice. Belgium, together with 10 other Member States, launched the initiative for a levy at European level through the system of enhanced cooperation. For the near future, it is important to look at the outcome of the introduction of this levy. From the preparatory documents of the post-2015 development framework negotiations, it is clear that most of the new resources will be found to promote sustainable, economic and social development at national level. In particular, it is about increasing own income by strengthening local taxation and by tackling illegal money flows. This is one of the main points that Belgium will bring to the EU's development funding negotiations. Discussions on the introduction of the levy at European level are currently largely concerned with the procedures for collecting this levy. Little or no attention is paid to the method of use. This aspect will be discussed in the government in due course.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-20-54-commissie-ic057x.u36	Minister, from your reply I think you are behind such a tax.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-20-54-commissie-ic057x.u37	You make it sound like that's a surprise.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-20-54-commissie-ic057x.u38	No, your policy letter makes it very clear that you are looking for alternative forms of funding. It is a good thing that you are also behind this tax, because it is really necessary. There are countries where the tax is introduced unilaterally, as in the United States and the United Kingdom. If it turns out that the modalities are being palavered for decades, it might be interesting to look at the way in which these countries have implemented the unilateral introduction, also with the aim of working on climate change. Our country was already a pioneer with the introduction of this law in 2004. Belgium can continue to pioneer, because we have been waiting for ten years. That's a long time. Do we now have to wait another decade before we take another step forward in favour of development cooperation?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-20-54-commissie-ic057x.u39	Minister, in December the Belgian Government decided not to grant EUR 40 million in development aid to Rwanda. The motivation given by you and your cabinet lies in the negative evaluation and standstill of human rights, political dialogue and freedom of the press in Rwanda. This is in line with the negative opinion expressed by some NGOs, such as 11.11.11. The government agrees with their demand not to pay that amount. No doubt that decision was the subject of discussion during your recent visit to the Great Lakes region. It seems reasonable to say that there are some fundamental considerations on the table regarding Rwanda that are needed to establish a lasting relationship between Belgium and Rwanda. In addition to the lack of progress on human rights, political dialogue and the freedom of the press, this momentum also offers an opportunity to reflect on our relationship and to evaluate the existing ICP, which has undoubtedly been done, and the existing incitative tranche. Human rights should be one of the most important pillars, as you yourself indicated in your policy paper. Mr Minister, the important moment to give a renewed impetus to the Belgian-Rwandese development relationship prompts me to ask the following questions. What guarantees have you received from the Rwandan leaders showing their intentions to move forward together with Belgium in the existing relationship between the two countries? How credible are these commitments in the light of statements made earlier by President Kagame? In the past, it has been argued several times that benchmarks should be used in relation to Rwanda to increase the effectiveness of our relationship. How do you feel about this proposal? What would these benchmarks look like? I would also like to refer to our evaluator, Mr de Crombrugghe, who said that human rights cannot actually be bought off. On the occasion of his ten-year work as an evaluator, he states that he has learned from the past that it is difficult to achieve human rights through development cooperation. I thought that theorem as a given was interesting. Can you explain in detail what the EUR 40 million, which is not currently being paid to Rwanda, will be used for?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-20-54-commissie-ic057x.u40	Mr President, Minister, I was able to take note of your decision not to pay the incentive aid of $40 million that was originally foreseen in the event of significant progress being made by the Rwandan government in terms of political dialogue, good governance and the opening up of the media. The amount paid to Rwanda for the period 2011-2014 will therefore remain 160 million euros This decision was taken just a few days from your first trip to the Great Lakes region (Burundi and Rwanda). This trip to Rwanda was an opportunity to meet with many political leaders and civil society organizations. Many issues had to be addressed, including issues of both economic and political governance. So, Minister, could you give me a brief account of your visit to Rwanda and Burundi? How was the Belgian decision not to provide the intended incentive aid received by the Rwandan authorities? Why was this decision made and with what consequences? What will be planned for 2015? As we approach several electoral deadlines in this country, how do your department and the diplomacy of our country position themselves in the face of these future events?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-20-54-commissie-ic057x.u41	Minister, three groups expressed their concern, so I believe that this is an important issue. As far as your contacts are concerned, I will not repeat myself. My questions as a result of your visit to Rwanda and Burundi go in the same direction. Why has Rwanda not received the additional 40 million, which according to the evaluation of 11.11.11 was justified? I believe that this mission was an ideal opportunity to put the difficulties on the table in various areas with the Rwandan Government. It was also an opportunity to communicate not only about economic progress and the fight against poverty, but also about the human rights and political governance challenges. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I would like to ask you, along with my fellow Members, how do you evaluate your mission to Rwanda and Burundi? Have you put the difficulties of political dialogue, media development and good governance on the table? What are your views on the recommendations of 11.11.11? Did you bring that up? I will not list the recommendations, you certainly know them. I hope you've brought them to the table as well.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-20-54-commissie-ic057x.u42	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the working visit I made to Rwanda and Burundi together with my colleague, Didier Reynders, was useful. There is a great deal to read in reports, but a discussion on the ground with members of the government, civil society and opposition makes a lot of sense. In Rwanda, meetings with the various authorities took place in a constructive atmosphere. All of our interlocutors stressed the importance of maintaining a strong relationship between our two countries. These interviews provided an update on the country's economic situation, the regional situation and the issue of FDLR. Together with the Rwandan Ministers in charge of Cooperation, we were able to take stock of the status of the Indicative Programme of Cooperation 2011-2014 and the transition phase towards a new comprehensive programme after the 2017 elections. We have had discussions with civil society on the issue of political spaces and have also been able to carry out field visits to projects financed by Belgium. In Burundi, we met constructively in the same atmosphere with the Burundian authorities. This trip was the occasion to inaugurate with President Nkurunziza paved roads in Kirundu, financed by Belgium and which allow an improvement in the living conditions of local people. We also met with opposition and civil society actors. Together with my colleague Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Foreign Affairs, we have reiterated the importance Belgium attaches to the successful conduct of the elections, whether in Burundi or Rwanda. However, it was in Burundi that we insisted on these different messages, given the proximity of the elections. Belgium took the first steps in that country. Firstly, the Joint Committee will take place after the elections because we believe that a pre-election period is not really conducive to taking decisions on a new cooperation programme. Our aid of $4 million for the organisation of elections, via UNDP, will be conditional on their proper preparation – what is called an enhanced Article 8. The decision not to grant the incitative tranche has given rise to many reactions, not only in Rwanda but also in the Belgian press. It is also important not to turn it into amalgam. There is absolutely no question of suspending or deleting allocated budgets. As I said, it's about a bonus. The incitative tranche for the 2011-2014 cooperation programme concerns an additional budget of EUR 40 million, which was above the basic budget of EUR 160 million. It is a positive conditionality, an additional budgetary disc, which is awarded as a bonus if the partner country obtains a number of mutually agreed terms. Such an incitative tranche is thus in line with one of the guiding principles of my policy, namely the principle more for more. With regard to the criteria that have been set, I can say the following. First of all, there was an outdated criterion. The remaining criteria were not or were not fully met. This was established on the basis of the evaluation of objective indicators agreed jointly with the Rwandan partner at the Joint Committee. These are the provisions of Article 8 on dialogue, good governance and freedom of the press. I would like to reiterate that respect for human rights is at the heart of my policy and that I do not want to avoid the debate on this issue. However, in the case in point, it is important to talk only about those three criteria and not to open up the debate anymore. The Rwandan government was informed of our decision as early as November, which was taken before the report of 11.11.11 was published. It is therefore not correct to say that I based myself on the negative opinion of 11.11.11. The decision was communicated to the Rwandan government through normal diplomatic channels. In my opinion, the Rwandan partner has taken note of the decision in a very mature way. I have expressly chosen to deepen the political and policy dialogue. I also chose not to officially communicate about the decision before my visit to Rwanda, although the Belgian press was particularly keen on it. The purpose of the visit was to stabilise and strengthen bilateral relations. This dynamic must be expressed and led to a permanent dialogue, both in terms of economic development and in terms of politics. Providing criteria for the allocation of an incitative tranche is a form of working with benchmarks for our cooperation with Rwanda. The 40 million disk was a potential envelope that had to be completed further with concrete projects and programmes that would all be identified and formulated and for which budgets had to be programmed in the coming months. It is therefore not a fixed amount, which must be reallocated. With regard to the recommendation of 11.11.11 on the incitative tranche for the next co-operation programme with partner countries in Central Africa, I would first of all like to draw attention to the Development Cooperation Policy Declaration, which underlines the importance of transparency in the development strategy set out by our partner countries. We therefore expect the political will of these partner countries to use resources efficiently and effectively. Development cooperation is not a blank cheque. The Belgian Government attaches conditions to its development efforts. In addition to progress on human rights, we also expect good governance. Good governance means not only being effective, but also acting in a legitimate way. In a country with limited capacity but clear political will, we are prepared to support reforms. This is particularly the case for countries in an intensive period of transition, post-conflict, reconstruction or nation-building, where institutions and institutional frameworks are still in full development or require further maturation. The intention is not to suspend cooperation every time things go wrong. At such times, it can be decided to adapt the modalities of cooperation to reality, for example by working more through non-governmental cooperation actors or through multilateral organisations. The preparatory process for the new co-operation programme with the Democratic Republic of Congo, Rwanda and Burundi will examine the possibility of further recourse to the incitative tranche and the form in which that instrument will be used. This will be based on our first experience with this instrument. In the past, efforts have been made to define as objective criteria as possible and to base themselves as far as possible on internationally recognised standards or assessments of the European Union or international financial institutions. However, working with an incitative tranche means that the predictability of the aid cannot be fully guaranteed, since it is a supplementary envelope, whether or not it is granted on top of the promised amount of development cooperation. The conditions set out by 11.11.11 as technical criteria for granting the incitative disc reflect progress in good governance, human rights and democratic principles. The assessment of the criteria is done by my administration. This is of course the subject of consultation with the partner country. The final decision, however, belongs to the Minister for Development Cooperation, since it concerns the release of funds from the Belgian budget.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-20-54-commissie-ic057x.u43	Minister, I think it is the first time that such an incitative tranche has not been granted. It is then of course useful to consider whether this will have the necessary impact in the long term. We must, of course, continue to work on good governance, political dialogue and freedom of the press. You have now done so for the first time, with the principle more for more. It'd be good if it worked, but your evaluator has his doubts. In any case, I think it is a good idea not to punish the population if a government does not apply certain principles. It is perhaps an idea not to allocate the incitative tranche to the government, to bilateral cooperation, but to indirect cooperation, because it is nevertheless directly involved in the population. Often it is also about movements that do not cooperate with the government. In this way, you would continue to invest, albeit indirectly, in welfare and the fight against poverty in countries where aid is needed. The non-attribution of the tranche is a punishment, both for the population and for the government, whereas the population should not really be punished. That is my idea, but I understand from your answer that you are also thinking in that direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-20-54-commissie-ic057x.u44	Mr Minister, thank you for all this mainly technical clarification. I fully agree with your view that this incentive aid should not be a blank cheque and that a whole series of measures must be respected by the partner countries. In any case, given the political context in these countries, especially in the Democratic Republic of the Congo and Burundi, we will have the opportunity to talk about it again quickly. Indeed, the pressure is beginning to rise, mainly in the Democratic Republic of the Congo and Burundi. We will therefore have to pay attention to the situation there in the next few days and to the measures that our country can take to help the local population.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-20-54-commissie-ic057x.u45	Minister, these are three important countries to which we want to give a great deal of support, both to the public authorities and to the various organisations active there. I agree with my fellow Members. If certain tasks are not carried out at government level because they are not given any importance, then it is important that they do not affect the population. After all, it is not about supporting the government, but about the people who need it. It is good that a clear signal has been given that we do not take it for granted that certain actions are being trampled on. We will continue to follow this up. You will also travel to those other countries. There will also be elections there. I hope that clear agreements will be reached in the new cooperation agreements.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-20-54-commissie-ic057x.u46	I would like to thank my fellow Members and the Minister. We have dealt with 15 questions in less than an hour and a half. I do not think this has changed the quality of the discussions. Minister, you no longer have any questions. You get ten out of ten, unlike other colleagues in the government.
