ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic281x.u1	We will begin with the hearing with Mr Bens on Objective 3 and Tihange 2. Afterwards, the arrangements for the hearings on the safety culture will be followed, if we have sufficient time to do so. Mr. Bens is due to leave at 14:00. If there is not enough time left, we will move the work to a next committee meeting, given that the hearings may not take place this year, but will take place at the beginning of next year. So we still have some time to do that. Mr Bens, you have the floor for your presentation. After that, we can ask the necessary questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic281x.u2	As you can derive from the title of the slides, the presentation will be mainly about Objective 3 and Tihange 2, but I also have some information about the other reactors because everyone is interested in them. That information is fairly concise. Here we see a photo of the sites of Doel 3 and Tihange 2. In the summer of 2012, during a planned inspection, during ultrasonic testing, thousands of indications were discovered in the tanks, which were diagnosed as hydrogen-induced defects in the walls of reactor vats. To fix the ideas, here is a schematic picture of the reactor. To the left, you see the reactor. In the reactor tank, which heats the water, this heat, in a heat exchanger called a steam generator, is transferred to a second circuit, a steam-water circuit that turns the turbine, which then generates the electricity with the generator connected to it. It is in this tank, quite to the left, in this building, that the problem lies. You see here a drawing of the tank as it is. Six pipes enter the tank, because there are three loops, so three entrances and three exits. The lid is bolted on the tank itself. To give an idea of where radioactivity is located, uranium is found in pellets that are roughly the size of a phalange, ceramic, and after fission, also fission products. All these uranium pellets are then placed in a watertight sheath, in a fuel needle of about 4 meters, 4 and a half meters long, welded, waterproof. All these combustible pencils are then placed in the tank in the reactor building. There is not one, there is a double building that protects the nuclear installations. This tank, in operation, is well bolted and waterproof. During maintenance and inspection, the lid is removed. This tank is located in the bottom of a swimming pool which is then filled with water and all work is done under at least 15 meters of water. In the middle of the picture here, you see a semi-circle, that's where the flange of the reactor is located. The two metal objects are the steam generator. You also see the flange of the tank with the fuel assemblies that are in it. The ultrasonic inspections referred to are carried out using the Belgian in-service inspection machine, in abbreviated MIS-B. It's a kind of spider that comes to land on the flange of the tank. Ultrasonic transducers descend through a telescopic arm into the tank itself. What's the problem? To the left, you see the drawing of the tank with a magnifying glass on the wall. The wall of the tank is still about 20 centimetres thick and has defects. It should be noted that these defects, these flakes, are all quite vertical and parallel to the wall of the tank. They are not penetrating from the inside to the outside. So they're not cracks. It's limited in the wall of the tank itself. This phenomenon of hydrogen defect is known by metallurgists. So they weren't surprised, but it's still the first time we've seen this in a reactor tank. For the period 2012-2013, a lot of studies and tests have been done on this phenomenon. In May 2013, the Agency gave its approval to the Electrabel safety file so that the reactors could start safely, and it was still required, at that time, to carry out an action programme called "medium-term actions" to be carried out in the course of the next operating cycle, twelve or eighteen months later. Of these additional trials and studies, two gave surprising results. On the one hand, it was the ultrasonic qualification of the measure. It was necessary to change the sensitivity and certain parameters of the ultrasonic machine to dimension all the defects. On the other hand, the second unexpected fact is that the steel in the part used for the tests became more rapidly weakened under irradiation. One of the tests was to irradiate samples in the BR2 reactor in Mol to see how this steel behaves under irradiation. The results showed that there was much faster hardening due to neutron radiation than was expected.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic281x.u3	(...) verbroest. What's brussing?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic281x.u4	Glass is fragile. If you want to break a glass, you just have to tap it. It'll break. Glass, however, is strong. It's resisting pressure. The opposite is, for example, a plastic bottle or glass. I can throw that on the ground; it won't break. However, as soon as some pressure is put on it, it will break down.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic281x.u5	So you're saying it's getting more fragile.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic281x.u6	It is indeed in different languages. When there are English-language terms, it becomes difficult. After finding, these reactors were shut down at the end of March 2014. Subsequently, Electrabel was asked to demonstrate that the said reactors were safe before they were restarted. As far as we are concerned, we have relied on the expertise of many external bodies. Indeed, it should be noted that expertise in this area is not common. Thus, the Agency was assisted by Bel V, our technical subsidiary, and AIB-Vinçotte, which is the approved body for ultrasonic inspections for the mechanical handling of pressure equipment. We have also used three international expert groups, namely the IRB, which brings together experts in mechanical properties under irradiation. This is a very narrow niche of material science (the holding of metal under irradiation). We brought together nine foreign professors or experts. We have called on the National Scientific Expert Group as well as other international experts. We have all gathered them together to examine a very special phenomenon that Professor Bogaerts mentioned, but I will come back to that later. We used an American Oak Ridge National Laboratory again. It is, in fact, a laboratory of the US government that is world-renowned for its expertise in the handling of tanks and large metal equipment. We asked him to make a complete revision of all the assumptions and to recalculate all the calculations on the basis of their own codes. This brings me to the two problems that led to the arrest in March 2014. First of all, I will look at the question of the validation of the inspection method with the MIS-B machine, i.e. the spider placed on the tank. How do we validate the results of these ultrasonic examinations? By conducting a test with the same machine on test blocks which will then be cut to see where the defects are. As a first step, therefore, the examination is being carried out. The machine determines the presence of a possible defect of such size, at such a location with such orientation. After this, the test block is cut to confirm where the defects are. This has shown that with the new setting, it is possible to find all the defects and to dimension them correctly. This also led to the detection of more defects with higher sizes. We had a discussion about this at the beginning of the year, after recalibrating the ultrasonic machine. With these destructive tests carried out on the test blocks, it was shown that the inspection method should be able to find all the indications on the test blocks and therefore in the tank. The FANC formally qualified those methods of inspection in those files. With the data provided, with this improved method, the studies should continue to be carried out. All calculations must therefore be repeated with the new numbers and the new dimensions of the defects. A second problem is the accelerated fray of these monsters. The question is whether this faster fray occurs through the hydrogen flakes. The key question is how the bruss in the cockpit itself will proceed. A programme was therefore developed with a lot of tests and irradiations on a BR2 reactor. This is not only about damaged pieces of the steam generator, but also tests were carried out on the same steam generator in the area where there are no hydrogen flakes to check. A German piece was also found, especially the piece KS02. Such pieces were cast in Germany and were also used in German reactors in the 1980s. This is an unused piece on which tests were carried out. Those tests were available in literature and studies in 2012. In the meantime, it has been possible to lay hands on the documents themselves, so that further tests can be carried out. Tests were also carried out on the so-called control capsules contained in the reactor. From each reactor, pieces of the same casting are immediately inserted into a capsule at the construction to subject them to the same kind of neutron radiation, but closer to the core, so much more intense, to see an accelerated effect. Those pieces were now specifically examined for that. Another piece that was still available is the so-called nozzle cutout. The drawing shows the place where the pipes enter the cockpit. At the place where the pipes enter the cockpit, a hole in the cockpit had to be sharpened. Now, the piece that was cut out of it is kept, and so tests could also be carried out to determine how the material behaves after irradiation. All in all, about 1 500 tests have taken place. On the slide you can now see a copy of Electrabel's report. Allow me to discuss the results. In the left graph you see two series. The lower curve, the lower snake, indicates what the theory predicts and what the effect should be. The horizontal axis shows the amount of radiation and in the vertical direction is the degree of fray. The prediction shows that there must be some bruss, but what was seen on the piece VB 395 is a much faster bruss in function of the radiation. It was seen both on pieces of hydrogen flakes and on pieces taken from a zone where there were no hydrogen flakes. On the two right graphs you see that German block KS 02 and the pieces of the reactor vessels of Target 3 and Tihange 2 themselves and here all the samples follow the curve as expected. You can't see it on these slides but the axes of the right-hand graphs are on a different scale than the left-hand one. Those two right curves match the bottom one on the left graph. All these graphs, and much more, are in Electrabel's report, where they're better readable than here. The conclusion of all these tests was that the accelerated brising phenomenon occurs throughout the test block VB 395 and that it is not related to the presence of hydrogen flakes. So something happened to that block during the construction, which makes it more brittle, but that's not due to the hydrogen flakes in it. All other samples, including those of the tubs themselves, show normal behavior according to theory and according to all literature studies. It is therefore possible to conclude that the presence of these flakes does not result in an accelerated fray and that there is no reason to believe that the tubs of Objective 3 and Tihange 2 would be subject to it. Nevertheless, it is shown that the test block that accelerates ageing and when the material properties are introduced into the calculation model, one does not insert the properties as one thinks they are on the lower curves in dotted lines, but is going to add the degree of bruss seen on the VB 395. That is an additional margin, one could also have made the argument not to do so, but it has been said that, to have and to charge for all the margins, that shift of fragility is taken into account in the calculation model. We have submitted this methodology to our international experts at two meetings in Brussels and during many email exchanges with those people. They indicated that they fully support the findings contained therein. They fully agree and think it is a good approach to do so. Of the nine persons, one person has made reservations on one small aspect, in particular the starting point. How does the steel behave before irradiation? He had some doubts and reservations about that. We took into account his concerns, submitted them to Electrabel and asked the company to take them into account. Electrabel did the same with a second revision of his note. Those reservations have therefore been taken into account. Theoretically, there are still a number of questions. However, they are of a smaller order of magnitude than all other margins included in the models. In fact, therefore, we can conclude that the concerns of the nine experts have been met. The third part of the safety demonstration was the calculation of the structural integrity of the tank. The tanks with defects as detected and dimensioned with the validated method and with the parameters of steel behaviour, taking into account all that was done after the tests carried out, all this was taken, all the calculations of structural integrity were repeated under different conditions (normal operation, start-up, shutdown and under accidental conditions) to see how this vessel behaves. Tensions, maximum stress, it's during transients. It's thermal stress. It is not pressure tension, it is the thermal effects that cause the most stress on the equipment. This is what we calculated and all the calculations show that there is no problem with the mechanical holding of the tank. In the safety box that was handed over by Electrabel, it is well demonstrated that both tanks hold in all circumstances. At this point in history, this case was taken and submitted to Oak Ridge, the American laboratory, which verified everything. He looked at all the assumptions, all the calculations, the interpretations, the methodology. He looked completely different, more American than European. He also recalculated all the calculations with his own calculation codes. Oak Ridge did not just validate what Electrabel and his study office did. He repeated all the calculation with his own methods and came to the same conclusion: that the tanks hold in all operating conditions. Finally, the safety case was handed over by Electrabel, was validated by the 5 organs you see here: AIB Vinçotte for exams, BelV for technical studies, IRB for mechanical handling, Oak Ridge for a global analysis and an independent calculation at all. And there is still the National Group for the phenomenon that Professor Bogaerts has drawn our attention to. It is a hypothesis: it says that there are hydrogen atoms that can migrate into steel and then accumulate in its faults. After accumulation, they can take pressure and cause these indications to grow and at the limit lead to a cracking of the tank. This is a phenomenon that is known in pipelines, i.e. in pipes that carry gas. By 2012, Electrabel had concluded that this could not happen under these conditions. However, as Professor Bogaerts had pulled the alarm bell at the beginning of this year, we asked Electrabel to resume this study, which we then had validated by a group of four Belgian corrosion specialists. Professor Bogaerts challenged their position as experts. We then asked him to provide us with a list of the people they considered to be such. He then gave us some names. One of these experts had already worked for Electrabel in this case. So we didn't select him, but we included two other specialists at the suggestion of Professor Bogaerts. After reviewing the file, they came to the conclusion that this phenomenon could not occur and that it was negligible. We concluded that this was not a problem for the Doel 3 and Tihange 2 tanks. The conclusion that the FANC draws from all these studies and reports is that hydrogen flakes have been present in these tubs since construction, since manufacture. It is a well-known phenomenon in metallurgy; every metallurgist knows that. It's not tears, because they're different-oriented, and they don't evolve in time either. That's a conscience, too. They run parallel to the reactor wall, so the mechanical stress doesn't actually work on it. We have decided that the unexpected results of 2014 have been sufficiently explained and that we have no problem with it, that the presence of the hydrogen flakes does not contribute to the fray, and that the fray of the tubs will evolve in a normal way. As I have already said, we have nevertheless charged additional margins, such as an accelerated rebuffling of the VB395 test piece. The structural analysis of the integrity of the reactor vessels has been independently verified, and independently calculated, by Oak Ridge. They come to the same result. They confirm that the tubs comply well with all safety standards. We have therefore come to the conclusion that all the concerns we had been overcome, that all the requirements we had made were met in May 2013, and we have therefore given the green light for the start-up of the two reactors. Electrabel is now working on all the preparatory works for this. It remains to be noted that all the additional requirements that were imposed in 2013 on Electrabel for the operation are still valid. The aim is to reduce the thermal gradients during normal operation. So, in order not to solicit the tanks, the rate of warming or cooling has been reduced. Another measure was taken at Doel 3, consisting of the preheating of the injection water. The impact studies take into account the fact that the cooling water that is poured under certain conditions into the core may have a temperature between 8 and 50 degrees. To avoid thermal shock, the low threshold was raised and this water was preheated to 45 degrees. This level is therefore still below the threshold that has been recorded in safety studies, but it is higher. Therefore, when this cold water comes into contact with the tank, the thermal shock is less important. We also demanded that after an operating cycle, when shutting down for normal maintenance – which is after 18 months for Doel 3 and Tihange 2 – a full examination of the ultrasonic tanks be re-examined to ensure that the defects did not worsen. We also demand this every three years. The end of life of these plants is still planned for 2022 or 2023. All folders are available on our website. It includes a summary history, answers to key questions, all reports submitted by Electrabel, Oak Ridge and AIB-Vinçotte, as well as all press releases for the past three or four years. So that's for Target 3 and Tihange 2. I will go straight ahead with the other power stations, because that is only one or two slides more and then we can proceed to the debate. Objectives 1 and 2, the two smallest and oldest plants, are not currently in service. As you know, Target 1 was shut down on February 15th and Target 2 was shut down a month ago to check the tubs. The priority actions are also under way. You may recall from a previous hearing that we have drawn up a list of all the actions that had to be taken before the long-term operation could start. In order to carry out a number of actions, power stations must be shut down. People are doing those works right now. The start-up is, of course, only possible after we have given the green light and have established that all these actions have taken place. Regarding the hydrogen indications in the tubs, the cockpit of Objective 1 was examined last month and no indications were found. The examination of the Objective 2 tub is still under way, unless it has recently been completed, but we have not yet received the results. That is what we have to wait for. Target 4 is in normal operation and was investigated last year. There were no indications of hydrogen defects there either. Let's move on to Tihange. Tihange 3 and 1 are in normal operation. They have also been examined for hydrogen defects and have not been seen. The aspect of safety culture in Tihange. As you know, in August, they were given a serious warning to raise the bar in their safety culture. They responded with some immediate ad hoc actions. They have set up a programme which they call 'rigueur et responsabilité', which consists of training, communication and compliance with procedures. They are also developing a longer-range program. Indeed, changing a culture is not something that happens overnight. This program is being implemented and we are following very closely how this enhancement of the safety culture bar is being implemented through more rigour and more sense of responsibility among everyone at the plant. So much for the things I had prepared.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic281x.u7	Thank you, Mr Bens, for your explanation. President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions:
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic281x.u8	Mr President, Mr Bens, I am pleased to have heard your explanations. I'm half reassured. First point: I see that in your presentation you are talking about hydrogen microbulls. So far, we've always been told about microcracks and now you're talking about microbubble. It's a detail that still bothers me. You explain – interrupt me if I don't understand – that we detected microbulbs, that we had unexpected results, that we tested on an element that had a metallurgy similar to that of the tank and that these first tests were worrying. From there, the results of these worrying tests were explained. The time taken to make the final decision is to be able to test on other elements that are closer to the steel that is actually in the tank. You said that you were looking for test pieces in the reactor tank that correspond to the irradiation situation and of the same nature, at the metallurgical level, as the reactor tank. There, we realize that the results are more reassuring, hence the conclusion that the poor results of the first tests are due to a reason that has nothing to do with the hydrogen microbulles detected but that we do not really know why these results are bad. Then, what I'm worried about is that you're explaining that you've received the advice of a whole series of offices, expert groups. The way you presented this circle to us with all the actors, I don't remember you did it before. So I'm a little surprised you didn't explain it to us a few weeks ago when it was going on. There, we really see who was consulted and what the expected results were. When you came to talk to us, you were talking about the expectations you had regarding the results of Electrabel, but we realize that there are a whole series of offices, expert groups. It's much more accurate today than when you first explained it. It's a personal feeling. You also talk about the problem of exposure to the thermal gradient. You have said that to be even more certain than there is no problem, recommendations in terms of the use of the reactor have been given: we will return from less cold or lukewarm water so that there will not be a great difference in temperature which requires the tank; we will cool more, etc. But the concern is that when you gave the first explanations in this committee, you told us that it was in the event of an extreme thermal gradient, in the event of an incident where the tank would have to cool abruptly for safety reasons, that there was a problem. In this case, you did not mention it in your explanations. You're talking about measurements in the nominal operation of the reactor, but I don't think you're telling us whether you're quite reassured about an urgent and massive cooling of the reactor, which is the main cause of exposure to a strong thermal gradient of the tank. These are the first questions I wanted to ask you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic281x.u9	Mr. Bens, thank you for your presentation. I have several questions to ask you about this. In 2013, when you came to this commission, at the time of your decision to reopen the power plants, there were 8,000 cracks. If I take your statements back, you said it was a lot. Now things have evolved, there are many more. Between many at the time and the current situation, what is the shade that allows you to say that the situation is different and that one can maintain the decision made? Warmer water will be injected into the future: is the 45 degree threshold a scientific limit? Is there any reason to predict this temperature? Why not 44 or 46 degrees? What exactly justifies this temperature? Play with water temperature, isn't it playing with scientific margins? How far can we go and do not anticipate a number of solutions or results in relation to this? When we talk about nuclear power, can we continue to work with these scientific margins? You talked about the evolution of the cracks. This is an important question because, before, we did not know the number of cracks. We weren't going anywhere, and then we detected some cracks and we're not detecting any now. I guess there's a full x-ray. How can technical evidence be advanced? We must be able to move forward in this direction. I'm afraid we're talking about a piece of randomity. Can there be a margin of insecurity, even minimal, when it comes to reopening power plants? Questions need to be asked. In the past, you mentioned a number of things. You asked yourself about this runway last August and you were more careful, pointing out that we had already raised the temperature of cooling water in Doel. You said, I quote: "We are eating the safety margins. At some point, we can't go any further." How do you explain the fact that now it's "stop"? Can we go further? In the reflection of the AFCN, where does the "further" or "not far enough" settle? In your presentation, you talk about the BRI that confirms all the results. But when one of the experts emits nuances, you say it's minor. What allows you to say that? Is it sometimes minor, less minor, more minor? Where's the shade?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic281x.u10	Mr President, Mr Bens, I have a lot of questions for you. First of all, I have a preliminary remark about access to documents. We've received everything in block. Everything was made available at once on the Federal Agency's website. However, in 2013, we had access to the documents a few months before your final decision, so that we had been able to carry out a counter-expertise. You made this impossible. We asked for a German expert at the time. The work had been useful, in particular to highlight some points. You have decided, contrary to what has been done in the past, to keep everything secret until the day you publish it all. This makes reading much more complicated, since there are many reports. Overall, this represents about a thousand pages. Why did you adopt this different attitude from 2013? Secondly, I am particularly surprised about the chronology of the reports. Timeline makes some things a little suspicious. I explain: the final report of the Federal Agency, which takes the decision, dated 12 November. Am I wrong? This is in any case the date on the document that was made available to us on the site. How can you make the decision in this final report on November 12, when at that time you did not have the report of the American Agency, received on the night of the 12th to the 13th? How can you make the final report decision on November 12, when the AIB-Vinçotte report is dated November 16? How can you make the final decision on November 12th when the Scientific Council meets on the evening of November 16th? This question therefore relates to the decision-making agenda. Frankly, I find this particularly problematic. It is as if the decision was already built before the three above-mentioned opinions were received. I have also read in your final report, dated November 12, various expressions or different formulas that clearly demonstrate that you need to keep a degree of uncertainty about decisions. You may call it a degree of caution, but for me, a degree of uncertainty about nuclear security is not particularly reassuring. I'll explain. It is said that everything is fine because 99.75% of cracks are not a problem. Given the number of cracks, it still makes 40 problematic cracks. It can be impressive to say 99.75%, but if you calculate the total number of cracks, the rest is still 40 problematic cracks. You say the prediction equations are "acceptable". But that term is not enough. These equations should be validated, confirmed, definitive, and not just "acceptable". You say that "the most probable origin is", when we wish, and you yourself asked, I will come back, to know with certainty the origin of the defects. To say that "the most probable origin is" is not enough to reassure from a scientific point of view. You have to have certainties. You say that the increase in the number of indications is mainly due to lower detection thresholds. "Priorly due." And for the balance, what's it due to? To a possible increase in the number. All these words that allow you to take a little distance or a little caution, actually have something to worry about. I'm going on. "A significant change in defects is unlikely." We would have preferred: "A significant evolution is impossible", not "improbable." You say: "It is unlikely that the Viroles of Doel 3 and Tihange 2 have an unexpected sensitivity." Again, the term "unrobable" cannot satisfy us from a scientific point of view. It's a term that shows that there's a nuance, that we're not sure. It should have been "impossible" to present an unexpected sensitivity. The Federal Agency considers the equations "acceptable". I wish she'd judged them "some." This is a whole series of terms that I could continue to enumerate, but I'm not going to do it, I'm going to come to another part of my questions. When you're used to working in international forums – I don't take the example of the IPCC here because it has clear references – these words that allow you to take a margin of distance are words that worry us because they don't provide definitively validated certainty. As for the famous piece Areva VB 395, I have taken back the historical documents. The Federal Agency and Electrabel presented a series of scientific demonstrations in 2013 and 2014 to emphasize that this piece was representative. Do you remember that? I have here all the documents in which Electrabel swears and the Federal Agency validates the fact that this room is representative. I can pull them out if you dispute it. Today, your whole demonstration is to tell us that this room is not representative and that we cannot work with that room. As far as I'm concerned, it's particularly disturbing. Indeed, all documents from 2012 and 2013 – there were hundreds of pages – are based on this piece and say it is representative. And today, she's not. Not only is it not, but also, at no time, in the documents, you do not explain the reasons why this room is a problem in the tests. Even the Americans, in their report, say that it would be good if you could explain us and do more research. This was one of the conditions set out by the Federal Agency in its documents in 2013. In order to be able to reopen them permanently, she asked for an explanation. I'm asking you the question today. What explanation can the Agency give for the results of the tests in Exhibit Areva VB 395? I didn't find her. It is correct on page 52 of your report that this is an unknown phenomenon. An unknown phenomenon is not a scientific explanation. It's just a state of affairs, a finding of deficiency in your head's ability to demonstrate what's going on in the tests with this room. As I have not been able to find the answer in the documents, I ask you the question. What is, for you, the explanation of the results of the tests on this French play? It's actually a little easy to say: "we've done a lot of other tests on other parts." Actually, that's not right. You only did tests on another piece, the German KS02. The other tests were carried out on Doel 3 and Tihange 2 test pieces, i.e. the plants that are problematic. Let me tell you that since the depth of the test pieces is not the same as that of a wall, it makes sense that you do not find the same problems. So I put the test pieces aside and look at what parts were tested in the BR2 by the Federal Agency and the operators. I note that there is, on the one hand, the French play Areva, and, on the other hand, the German play. But there are not thirty-six pieces. There's only two. You said that you had rejected the French play – it may be thought that this results from the fact that the results are not good – and that you had only based on the results of the German play, which gave you satisfaction. However, this German piece is not the one on which the measuring tools were qualified. Indeed, you qualified all the measuring tools on the French coin and you did not requalify the ultrasonic camera on the basis of the German coin. On the other hand, it was not considered useful at the time when the French exhibit was considered relevant. Today, a year later, you come to tell us that, on balance, you do not take into account the results of the French play. I have many questions about this. I therefore ask you to give us a valid scientific explanation. In fact, say now that KS02 is more representative is not acceptable if it is not justified why this Areva is no longer valid. I would now like to refer to the minority opinion. You spoke very quickly earlier when you explained that you had considered one element, the others being anecdotal. I assume you've read that minority opinion. Having found nothing on this subject in the final report of the Federal Agency, I would like to know precisely what the Federal Agency's response is to the eleven remarks made by this scientific expert. I will quote them since you say that the stakes are minor. What is the response of the Federal Agency to the expert's criticism that the initial values of breaking resistance are insufficient? What is the Federal Agency's response to the expert's remark that the phosphorus content is higher, which influences the response to irradiation and the extent of segregation? What is the response of the Federal Agency - I expect a precise point-by-point answer, Mr Bens - to the expert's remark that the distribution is very different from the surface indications of Doel 3's lower viroleum? This must be explained, and it is not! What is the Federal Agency's response to the expert's remark that there is no explanation of the reasons for non-segregation on the surface? What is the Federal Agency's response to the expert's remark that the population is denser than in 2012 in the axial sense? It's dangerous because the axial sense is the one at which one could ever have a spread of cracks. What is the Federal Agency's response to the expert's remark that there is an oversight of the consideration of residual tensions? What is the Federal Agency's response to the expert's remark that there is a wrong choice in considering the angle of inclination? It's not nothing! What is the response of the Federal Agency to the expert's remark that there is uncertainty about the hypothesis of an uncracked coating? What is the response of the Federal Agency to the expert's remark that non-uniform constraints are to be considered because of the impact on the distribution of high-density zone temperatures of near-surface indications? I can't find an answer to these questions in your document. You don't pick up on a point-by-point basis and you swipe and say that this is an expert opinion and that you have taken it into account. In fact, this is not true because the expert repositions himself after taking into account the preliminary remarks! I find it very strange that you did not give us access to the interim report of the BRI Panel of Experts. I'll go back to the timeline. In May, they submit an interim report that we do not have and in which an expert already makes a series of remarks in a minority capacity. At that time, the Agency takes this opinion into consideration as it is important, in terms of safety, to always take the most critical opinion. In May, the Agency endorsed this expert's remarks and Electrabel was supposed to respond to them. A few months later, Electrabel replied and the expert said that he still had a series of comments, the ones I have just quoted. At that time, and contrary to what you did in May, the Federal Agency is dropping the expert! You yourself said that these were minor remarks! It is not because it is a minority note that the remarks are minor! Why do you follow the expert in May and why do you no longer follow him when he makes remarks on the eleven points I have just mentioned in the final report? You think that now it's good! You said you wanted to feel at ease during the Christmas holidays and you will be, since Doel 1 and 2 are re-opened. That's what you wanted. You wrote it in 2005. With regard to Doel 3 and Tihange 2, you made your decision even before the report appeared and full answers were given to the expert's remarks. I repeat that, in the face of nuclear risk, the most critical scientific opinion must be taken into account. But you deny it. In your final document, you no longer refer to this annex to the report. We are entitled to expect something else from a federal agency. As you took less than 24 hours to make your decision, it makes sense that you didn't have time to respond. I find this very serious. I know that this expert's name remains confidential, but I would like to know if it is the same one that had already expressed reservations in the 2013 report or if you have ruled out the one that had been the most critical at that time. I also saw that the composition of the Committee of Experts had changed between the two periods. IRB experts had been appointed in 2013. And then we suddenly replaced some of them for this analysis. I would like to know whether the one who had been the most critical at that time was put on the side or whether the same person is now expressing these reservations. I am not asking you for his name, because I know that you will not give it to us – which I also regret. I shall now turn to the safety margins. The slide you presented is on page 11. I would like to ask you about the difference that is being taken into account. If I calculate correctly, even if your graph does not help me, and by using documents on your site, the difference is 75°, or even 80°. I guess you can validate that. These data can be found on page 64 of your final report and on page 100 of the safety box on Doel 3. I wanted you to react to the fact that 75 degrees is more than the 50 degrees you defined in 2013 as the margin to be considered for testing. The Federal Agency had taken a margin of 50 degrees while the experts, unanimously, had said that a margin of 100 degrees Celsius should be taken. Right here in this room, I told you there was a 50-degree problem. Today, what do we see? It is that the actual margin, calculated, is 80 degrees. They were more right than you said at the time. We know very well why. Because, back then, by taking 50, you could go on. By taking 100, you should have stopped. And, today, the reality is that the gap is 80 degrees. In doing so, and this is where your graph is not accurate enough, we arrive very close to the limit of 132 degrees Celsius. We're 15 degrees Celsius, unless I'm mistaken. As you don't write it down, we can't see it on your chart. You are 15 degrees Celsius from the maximum allowed by the ASME Code. In the other power plants – tell me if I'm wrong; I found the references in the more complete documents – let's take Doel 4, you have a margin of 100 degrees Celsius. At Doel 3 and Tihange 2, your safety margin is 7 times less than at Doel 4. On the other hand, I would like to know, in the life of the plants, when the lines cross, at what time it is 132 degrees. At 42, at 45, at 47, at 50? I found the data for 40 years and for the current situation as well but, of course, you have hidden the data that would allow us to see from when these Doel 3 and Tihange 2 power plants can no longer be extended. I am already preparing the next debate as we see that in the accounts of Electrabel, we are working over 60 years – we value 4 billion – for Doel 3 and Tihange 2 included. I'd like to know when the curve crosses the 132 degree line. I come to the so-called security measures and the additional requirements that you have taken over. I am very surprised that, in the final document, there is no mention of these taxes in the conclusions. In the conclusions, it is not mentioned that Electrabel should continue to operate with a 45-degree preheat for Doel 3. I find this very surprising. Of course, Electrabel said he was going to do so, but the fact that the Agency did not impose it and did not repeat it in its conclusions is, to say the least, paradoxical. The same applies to thermal gradients. The only thing you write in your conclusions is that inspections will have to be repeated every three years, and the first in fifteen or eighteen months. It is written and it is necessary because those who say today that we can see that the cracks have not changed pretend to forget that the power plants have operated only nine or ten months in between. These elements are in your report and you say that it must be possible to see it again because there is too little hindrance from the fact that it has been said that it did not change during the nine or ten months. It's too easy because there's only nine or ten months of operation. Here, we'll evaluate every three years. This tax is found in the report, but other taxes on gradients or temperature are nowhere to be found. Before I turn to the questions similar to those asked by the colleague from Lamotte, I would like to know why you are imposing such measures when you say that there is no risk. If there is no risk, then let us function as we do with the other power plants. How many plants in the world are preheating to 45 degrees? Is Doel 3 the only one who will have the obligation to preheat his safety water, the water to be used if you have to intervene, to 45 degrees? I think I remember you telling us that the maximum was 50 degrees Celsius. We can't go beyond that because it would take too many risks, but at 45 degrees Celsius, we're very close to the maximum. If the plants operate longer, do they need to increase these 45 degrees or will they be stable over time? I'm surprised because at first we were told that 30 degrees would be enough. Then it went up to 35-40 and now it's 45 and even between 45 and 50. But we know that the maximum is 50. And why is this valid only for Doel 3? Because in the 40 cracks that are really problematic, some are located very close to the place where the water is injected. This explains the difference between the two. I think so, anyway. But on the temperature gradients, is it valid for Doel 3 and Tihange 2? Now I don't understand very well. This requires a more technical explanation. Why one is only valid for Doel 3, I see it. But why the other one is valid for both, I don't understand. This is less a problematic remark than a technical one. I then have a few questions of various orders, which I do not group into a chapter in its own right. The test pieces. You're saying you've done tests with the test pieces, but I'd like to know if there's any left in the tank and if there's enough left in the tank to make it work again? In fact, every time we do tests, we remove test pieces. Here, we had to remove more than originally planned. However, these are indicators for future tests. I'd like to know if you've required destructive tests at the end of your life, because it's only then that we're really going to know what happened and what the actual composition of the walls of Doel 3 and Tihange 2. If this is not yet the case, I would ask you to anticipate it and already report it. Let us not be told that this is not going to serve! Well, even in ten years, it might still be useful to know exactly what happened, if only for other plants elsewhere in the world. I would also like you to give us a copy of the experts' interim report. The one that dates from May 2015. I'd like to understand why we changed our formula. We have moved from the theoretical FIS formula to the theoretical RMSR formula. Maybe it's to get the right result. But it is especially surprising that we are changing formula between two tests! And why have we no longer taken the margins into account by the degrees? In 2013, 50 degrees were said; the experts said 100 degrees. Today, we don't work with that anymore; we work with the test results. It's clear that if we ever do this graph, if we ever take 100 degrees of margin, we'd be beyond the 132 degrees Celcius that we can't exceed. In my opinion, it is not for nothing that today, we no longer discuss the measure 50, 70 or 100 degrees! Furthermore, at no time in the report have I found any reference to the checks carried out in 1992 and 1993. In fact, in '92 and '93, the ultrasonic camera has already been used. You often say that we no longer have the original documents from the date of '75 – '80. It's already weird that Electrabel doesn't find these documents but either. In '92-93 an inspection is already carried out and cracks are not detected. The camera did not detect the cracks at that time. It's weird that about 15 or 20 years later, cracks are detected. These are not the original documents referred to, they are the tests carried out in the year '92-93. I would also like to know whether Mr Bogaerts himself has validated the conclusions or whether he still reserves his analysis. Has he ever said what he thought or still has to say what he thinks? I would also like you to describe the graphs on different scales. If I look at the scales to the left and to the right, it's a little bigger, but the scales are the same. However, if I take the lower curve on the left graph and stop for example at a fluence of 5, we are in the average curve at about 50. However, if I look right at the KS02, at 5, we're 80 on the average curve. I therefore do not quite understand your explanation of the fact that the scales are different. Of course, on one side we go from 0 to 200 and on the other, from 0 to 160. But the references on the scales are exactly the same. When one makes the marker at a fluence of 5, one arrives at different figures from the graph on the right, on the curve at the bottom left. So I would have liked to have a technical explanation of that element. There you go. I'm sorry about the large number of questions, Mr. Chairman, but given the size of the 1,000-page document, I had to analyze it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic281x.u11	Mr President, I would like to thank Mr Bens for the precise report he has finally given us. I would have just wanted to have a clarification. There seems to be a stainless steel layer of a few millimetres inside the vats. Can you confirm or deny this?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic281x.u12	I had a number of questions, but they were largely deleted, following the previous questions from my fellow Members. I've got two left. In the report there is talk of a theoretic propagation under the impulse of low cycle fatigue. Could you give us a little more explanation? The word "theoretical" was used. Should I conclude from that that was not established in practice, or not in between the two ultrasonic tests? How am I supposed to understand that? How big is the theoretical effect? Can we imagine anything about that? There is a second aspect. Last Monday the calendar was set for all tests in the Swiss reactor Beznau 1. Have there been any contacts? Did the Swiss contact the FANC about this? Or is there no link? They are, of course, less advanced in research. It would be interesting to find out whether similar cases are being established there and whether they are anything with the many analyses that have been carried out here.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic281x.u13	Mr Thiébaut, there is no reason behind the difference between microbulbs and cracks. This may even be due to translation. There's no hidden agenda. Is there an explanation for the deviant results of BVA 395? This is a question asked by Mr Nollet. A dozen possible reasons for this behaviour were examined throughout the metallurgy. We were able to eliminate ten of them. For these ten cases, we are sure that this is not the cause. Among these ten are hydrogen defects. There are two or three that are likely. This is the thermal treatment and the crystalline structure of the materials. It has been established, however, that these are not the defects caused by hydrogen, as in the case of reactor tanks, so for us the discussion ends there. To advance science and metallurgy, it would be good to know. But we have no interest and we do not have the means to insist that these studies continue. It is obvious that scientists will say that more research is needed, that the subject is interesting and that it will advance science. I fully agree, but that is not part of the range of our work. These 12 reasons are set out in the report. The reason we are concerned about can be eliminated. The debate on this subject is therefore closed as far as we are concerned. I come to the difference between heat shock and global cooling. Thermal shock occurs once in the event of an accident. We obviously performed the calculations for the vats in the event of thermal shock, as planned. That is part of the calculations we have made. The normal cooling in which the gradients were limited is explained by the fact that the highest peaks of voltage are located at other locations in the tank wall. When abrupt cooling occurs, the greatest tension will occur near the surface, where contact with water occurs. If heating or cooling is slower, the voltages will be distributed to different locations. That is why we take these two events into account. All normal and accidental transients are well taken into account. The number of cracks is indeed large, but it has been found that it is not their number that is dangerous since only one crack could have stopped the plant. The number of cracks is therefore not significant in terms of risks. However, we have taken this into account and this has been included in our calculations. It is the precise location where they are located that is significant, near the inlet of the water, and the distance from the inner surface of the tank. I come to the question of the 45 or even the 50 to which Mr Nollet referred. This is not a safety limit beyond which it becomes dangerous. These 50 degrees are the value considered in the accident studies. The aim is to see how the core of the reactor behaves in the event of an incident and to take into account a certain maximum value, in this case, of the temperature of the water that is injected. With this value, is it still possible to cool the reactor core? These calculations were made years before the plant was built with a value of 50 degrees. That is why we have set the limit at 50 degrees. Could we do the calculations with another value? It's possible, but we didn't do the exercise. These values are imposed in the technical specifications for the operation of the power plants. For those who are part of the authorization, the value has already been changed. This is a tax and not a recommendation. We no longer talk so much about the gradients in our report, but it was a requirement that was two years ago and that has not changed. Is it 45 or 46 degrees? The target is 45 but the limits are set between 45 and 50 because there are always inaccuracies in measurements due to variations in external conditions. When you pass over 50, it's no longer going, you have to stop. If you pass below 40, you also have to stop. This is the change in the threshold. For other reasons, there was already a threshold of about 7 or 8 degrees before. As far as the ninth expert is concerned, I do not think I made it clear that it was anecdotal and that the position he expressed was a minor remark. I said that the value on which the discussion was held was small in comparison to the other margins. Mr. Frederik Van Wonterghem, the Head of Service for Basic Nuclear Facilities and has been following the case since the beginning, will be able to tell you more about the opinions given by this ninth expert.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic281x.u14	The main group of that ninth expert was mainly the initial state, the initial material characteristics of the steel, i.e. without irradiation. His largest concern was actually that the initial condition and the fray, so actually the starting point on the left, so under radiation zero, that that condition had to be conservative and actually higher on this curve. That's actually a different approach. He was more of the opinion that the initial condition should actually be more strictly filled in, but he also considered that the piece of radiation, so that abnormal fracturing, should not actually be taken over from VB395. In fact, he was in favour of a kind of different approach in which the initial state is stricter but the fray is then much more normal. This alternative approach was developed by Electrabel at our request and can also be found in the safety case of Electrabel. That's another method of actually coming to a different curve. When one compares these curves one comes to about the same condition. In short, this approach has been taken into account at the request of us, presented as an alternative approach. That actually gave a similar final curve that had to be taken into account in the calculations. In fact, his hypothesis or his wish has actually been considered and incorporated as conservative in the existing method of calculation. As for his groups, he did indeed have a lot of punctual comments in his report. We've looked at them one at a time. We have asked Electrabel about this and we have had new information on this. We have also taken a large number of his groups with us. In the end, we returned the additional information to the expert concerned, but it remained the same. It is of course about scientists and if they have a certain point they are sometimes difficult to convince of new information. In the end, we also presented his opinion, his minority opinion, to other experts from the group, including Oak Ridge National Laboratory, also to people from Bel V, people from AIB Vinçotte, and in the end we came to the conclusion that his concerns were actually taken into account in the general approach and could actually be answered in that way. So I'm sure we've taken that into account.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic281x.u15	With regard to access to documents, we chose to put the final reports on our site once the decision was taken, in order to avoid engaging in discussions with the public along the way. Let me turn to the chronology of the reports. They're all back on the 12th. The Agency has drafted its own on this basis. The aim is to entrust him to our scientific council - it was not included in the slides - because I had asked him to give his opinion on the whole dossier and on the Agency's report. It was necessary to give the members of our scientific council a few days to read it. They met on the evening of the 16th, and it was on the 17th in the morning that the decision was made. So there was no hole in this chain of decisions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic281x.u16	Vinçotte, it's 16.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic281x.u17	Vinçotte's report on Tihange was signed on 16. Previously, we had received the Doel report with confirmation that the conclusions of the Tihange report would be identical. We have therefore made progress. We did not make a final decision until this document was returned and we were able to verify that it contained the same conclusions. We also have an obligation not to waste time on files that have an impact on operators. The degree of uncertainty... You say that the forty cracks are problematic, but this term is not entirely correct. We have a methodology to treat the large number of cracks according to grof criteria – but the translation will translate this expression.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic281x.u18	No, there's no translation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic281x.u19	"Grossier" is not a pejorative term here. I'm talking about very approximate criteria. For the forty cracks, they had to be more refined. It was to show the acceptability of these cracks. You're playing with words. This is a binary decision: either a situation is acceptable or it is not! When you say "acceptable," that means it's acceptable. And when it's not acceptable, you say "not acceptable." There's no gradation in there. Engineers will never say that they are 100% certain that it is done that way. If they have not seen it with their own eyes, they will not say that they are quite certain. This is the scientific terminology used. With regard to the representativeness of block VB 395, in 2013 it was indeed the only block available. We knew there was the KS block, we had articles on the subject, but it was only later that we could get our hands on it. In 2013, Electrabel was convinced that the block was lost or destroyed but they continued to search and the Germans found it in the institute where the research was carried out. That's why we were able to look at it more closely. The substance of the reasoning is twofold. It shows in dotted form the curves that are calculated for Doel 3 and Tihange 2 vats and, as a continuous line, the curves for this VB part. It is shown that Exhibit VB is not representative, but we will still take this value as a margin of safety. The true curve is shown to be the dotted curve, but to add an additional margin, the curves are taken in continuous line with one more degree. I think it's a cumulation of margins that really goes in the direction of safety. If we had said that the curves were not good, we should have added another margin. But since this is a margin added to the dotted conservative curves, there is no problem on this side. In the contract with the experts, we agreed on some confidentiality. They can express themselves, but individual opinions will not be paired with names. You referred to the 132° margin. It is also a crude approach. If we're below 132 degrees, it's over. Otherwise, more detailed recalculations are required in accordance with the ASN Code. But we're far from it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic281x.u20	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic281x.u21	You say we're 15 degrees below. In doing so, the criterion is applicable. As far as the calculation of the lifespan is concerned, as you said, we could do the reverse calculation by taking these curves and seeing where we are coming from. To our knowledge, this has not been done. I don't know if Electrabel has that in his drawers. But as far as we are concerned, we stand by the law that says that these plants will be arrested in 2022-2023. In addition, we do not have any information to require further calculations or data on this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic281x.u22	How many plants (...)?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic281x.u23	Are you talking about preheating? I have no idea.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic281x.u24	Forty-five?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic281x.u25	I don't know. On the other hand, I know that for the 132 plants in the United States, there are more than that; they have done other calculations. Our tanks are therefore not the worst in the world in terms of fragility. U.S. tanks are really at the limit, much more at the limit than ours. As far as warming is concerned, I do not know whether other power plants or concepts apply it. On the other hand, I cannot answer your question as to whether there are any test pieces left. I don't think so, but I'm not quite sure. It should be noted that, as these test pieces are closer to the heart, they are subjected to a higher neutron flow rate. This is why they age more or less twice as fast as the tank itself. If the last test pieces were released after 30 years, it represents 60 years of operation. In doing so, there is no problem with the forty-year period envisaged for Doel 3 and Tihange 2. As far as end-of-life destructive testing is concerned, I think all engineers and scientists would like us to do it. However, this has no bearing on the safety of these facilities, as we have no basis to require it. I fully agree with you that this would be a good way to advance science, but we have no reason to impose these tests as it will not increase the safety of the population once the power stations are shut down. Then, we changed formula to take into account many parameters and no longer refer to the unique value that we set up in 2012. The 1992-1993 control. The checks which are carried out every ten years are fixed on the welds and not on the base material. So every ten years, the tanks have to be inspected ultrasonically. These are the welds we're looking at, because they're more critical places than the base metal. During the 2012 inspection, we were looking for something else, but we saw that we could not explain some indications in the base material. We never looked at the location of the hydrogen faults. With regard to Mr Bogaerts' reaction, once our decision had been announced, I had no further contact with him. When we told him that we did not take into account this effect, he systematically attacked the experts in his e-mails, considering that they were not competent – including those he himself had recommended. Two English teachers he suggested said, "No, that's not true." Now he claims they're not real experts. For now, he's playing the man, but not the ball. The three different curves of the other graph...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic281x.u26	The ladders.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic281x.u27	The ladders, yes. These curves are quite sophisticated and take into account the composition of the material, hence the phosphorus and molybdenum content, which are slightly different. That's why the curves are too. To the right, it's the one in the tank itself. It shows a certain deviation of the composition compared to KS02 or VB 395. It is according to their many parameters that we obtain other curves. I can confirm that the tanks inside are clad with a cladding, a coating. A carbonized steel, a black steel, has a better mechanical hold under irradiation. Stainless steel has a better hold for corrosion. In these tanks, the 20 centimeters that hold the pressure are made of carbon steel and, inside, a layer of stainless steel is placed to protect it from corrosion. It's a cladding about two centimetres thick.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic281x.u28	Mr Bens, do you confirm that the flakes, the cracks are in black steel and not in stainless steel?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic281x.u29	That's right, it's in black steel!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic281x.u30	It's important!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic281x.u31	Mr President, I would like to answer your question about the theoretical low cycle fatigue. That's why I'm switching over to the family again.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic281x.u32	Low cycle fatigue hits fatigue. It means that one could actually change the material in terms of properties, because one periodically increases or slows down the temperature of the material. The normal transients of a reactor vessel are regularly heated and cooled. That mechanism of the transients and temperature fluctuations could lead to a possible low cycle fatigue. Low refers to the fact that it's less frequent.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic281x.u33	The frequency we are talking about is actually the charging cycle, the eighteen-monthly cycle of heating and cooling.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic281x.u34	Yeah, and any stops.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic281x.u35	Good.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic281x.u36	Mr President, your last question concerns Beznau, a Swiss power station where the tubs have also been examined following our recommendations. They also saw indications, but they were not quite the same. We are, of course, in contact with our Swiss colleagues. They were with us last summer to put their heads together. They approach them in a similar way to us, with external expert groups. People from the FANC and Bel V have been invited to attend the meetings in Switzerland. We are therefore in close contact with the Swiss fellow Members of this House. I also understand that the Swiss operator Axpo also has contracts with Electrabel to help him. Those are the things I have been going through, Mr President. I hope I have answered that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic281x.u37	Ladies and gentlemen, I am consulting the House to see if any members of the committee would like a reply or a response.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic281x.u38	Mr President, Mr Bens, when you mention Doel 1 and 2 in your slide 17, you say that the priority actions for the LTO are being implemented. I'd like to know if it's now and when it's over. As the agreement between the Belgian State and Electrabel is signed, the plants will be reactivated. You are referring to your third indent that the LTO will begin only after the decision of the AFCN. When will this decision be made? I would have liked to have a date for Doel 1 and Doel 2 reboot to make things clear and make everyone precise. When we look at the evolution of the case, Mr. Bens, you were more than careful in the past by pointing out that we had already raised the temperature of the cooling water of the heart at Doel and that we were already eating the safety margins. I'm quoting you. At the beginning of 2015, you said that we couldn't go any further. So we're on the edge of the razor and I personally find that we can't play with nuclear safety and that we have to be precise. There is no discount on nuclear security; that is the position I stand for on behalf of my party. I'm worried about that decision. I would like to ensure, in view of the acceleration of this month's process, that the AFCN is fully independent from the political decision-making power. You're an agency called for by parliament. You are the guarantor of a number of missions. I would like this guarantee of independence to be maintained. As far as our party is concerned, I don't want security at the discount.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic281x.u39	Mr Bens, I find your explanation for the fact that the Agency received all the reports on the 12th and submits its own report on the same day, shows that you did not give this matter the necessary seriousness. Studies have been under way for 3 years. You say that for Tihange, the report will arrive later, but it's no big deal. Your scientific council meets on Monday night. You probably get the notice at night. You sleep on it and the next morning you decide that Doel 3 and Tihange 2 power plants can be reopened. This is not a serious way to work on such an important issue. We are entitled to wait until you take at least a few days, if not a few weeks, to study this case. It's 1,000 pages long. It was necessary to look at the file before making a decision. On the content of the opinion of this expert whose name you keep - I also asked you if it was the same as in 2013 and you did not answer me - you say that he considers that there is an important remark and that the other ten remarks are not important. I have read and even translated the expert's opinion, which is of a technical nature, and this is not always obvious. The expert makes no weighting between his remarks. None. Your colleague said that each of these points was answered directly to the expert. But in your file, in your final report, we don't have those answers. Where are the answers? I suppose you'll make them accessible. I wish you could give the commission, or on your site, no matter what, the exchange you had with the expert. I quoted these points and your colleague just said that you had answered one of the points and that for the other ten it was no big deal. What do you mean, it's no big deal? Have you read the expert's report? It holds in eleven points. You have answered one of these points in the report and you say that the rest is no big deal. The expert considers that they are all equally serious and that the answers provided by Electrabel are not satisfactory. By the way, you yourself, in May, followed this expert. But today, you say no, that it's soon Christmas and, like you said you'd decide before Christmas, it's okay, we can reopen. But we, the committee, and behind the committee, the citizens, remain with ten points for which there is no answer in the dossier. I therefore ask you, Mr Bens, to send us the answers you gave to the expert. But obviously, these answers, which I suppose we will have, were not able to satisfy the expert because, despite everything, he says he does not agree with the conclusions that you are taking. And this expert, he's not an environmentalist. He's a scientific expert. It is included in the list of experts you have appointed yourself. For me, first of all, there is a great problem of transparency, because we do not have access to the answers. Secondly, there is a problem of the scientific validity of your decision, while the expert maintains that there are ten reasons why the file cannot be approved. In any case, that's what he considers. And I'm not talking about Mr Bogaerts here. I guess you won't say that this expert "plays the man." As far as I know, he's really playing the ball, to take your expression back. Of the ten points, I do not have an answer at this stage, so I would like you to tell us that you will give us these answers, even though we already know that they did not satisfy the expert. At least for transparency, I would like us to have access to these documents and tell us whether it is the same expert or not. As for the other answers, I told you that I was really shocked by the fact that you also quickly launched the sprint, to resume the expression. There was not even 24 hours of analysis of the file and the decision was made, as if you had already made your decision in advance. With respect to Exhibit Areva, I recall that in 2013, it was the Federal Agency that said that the plants could only be restarted if there was a credible explanation as to why this piece did not meet the tests. Today, you say that this is not your mission, that it is for scientists, whereas in 2013, you required a credible explanation. Now you say that you have made twelve hypotheses, that you have rejected ten with certainty; there are two more. And you tell us you can't answer us. How do you want us to be satisfied? This is important since it is a requirement that you yourself made at the time. So I keep asking you what is the explanation of the results of the Areva tests? I hope that this question will not remain unanswered. As far as safety margins are concerned, I have better understood what you were explaining in the graphs. Indeed, depending on the content itself, this may differ. So I understand better. Regardless of the scales in fact, it is the very content of the curves that counts (phosphorus, nickel, etc.).). However, the safety margin is low. You say that as long as we're below 132, there's no problem. But we are much closer to 132 than 30 or 40 as in other plants. Where I can't follow you, it's when you say you only calculate up to 40 years, without looking at the rest. It's not for nothing that you don't do the calculation beyond! I therefore formally ask you to ask Electrabel to do this calculation and to send us the answer. The secretariat of the committee can send us the answer, we do not necessarily have to have it in session. I simply ask that we be able to obtain this answer formally. So, when does the curve cross? Is it 45 or 50? Could you also provide us with a later answer to the question of which other power plants are operating with preheating between 40 and 50? This answer, of course, must not be provided immediately at the sitting, but if you could forward it to us at a later stage, it seems to me necessary to make it clear. I want to be sure that I understand that these three conditions - preheating, reducing thermal gradients and regular evolutionary tests - are the obligations given by the Agency as well. You said it was already decided in 2013 but in what document? At the time, it was worded. Is there a legal document imposing 45 degrees? In my memory, it was 30 degrees, that's why I'm asking you the question. I wonder if it doesn't take a legal document to move to 45 degrees. Maybe you have it, and I don't know about it. For the test pieces, you say you have to check. Okay, you'll tell us what's going on if there's more. It does seem to me disturbing because these plants are 32 years old and if there is a problem, we have to use the test pieces for verification. We can't operate with power plants that don't have any more test pieces in the heart. So you'll check, but if there's more, it's a problem because we'll no longer be able to control what's going on in the power plants. I would also like you to provide us with a copy of the BRI interim report. I've already asked you, but you haven't reacted yet. Thank you, therefore, for sending a copy of this report to the committee. That's it, Mr. President, for those few requests. I understand that we do not get the answer immediately in the meeting, but that the answers can at least be sent to the secretariat.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic281x.u40	I'd like to point out something else. We talked earlier about the difference between hydrogen bubbles, hydrogen flaws and cracks. If my memory is not too bad, the term "shrinks" was introduced here in committee by someone who was there earlier, but not anymore at the moment. That also seems to me to be the answer to the question of how it suddenly appeared in the file. I now give the floor to Mr Bens for the further answers he can give at the moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic281x.u41	For Doel 1 and 2, the timing is quite in the hands of Electrabel. We have a list of tasks that must be carried out, such as inspection of tanks, the change of certain equipment. The actions are in progress. These actions must be carried out with stationary power plants. It is only when Electrabel warns us of the end of the inspections by the Agency, by Bel V, that we will restart. So I can't give you an exact date. The calendar depends on Electrabel.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic281x.u42	But the list of charges to be explained is precise, defined. Can we dispose of this element or does it appear on the AFCN site? Can you pass it on to the commission?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic281x.u43	I think the action plan is on the site. If I'm not mistaken, all the requirements are on the site.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic281x.u44	Therefore, see with the secretariat of the committee so that we can have it. That would be a good idea!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic281x.u45	As I said, it is not from 50 degrees that there are major problems. This means that the studies were conducted with this value.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic281x.u46	It is still written in the report that we cannot go beyond it!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic281x.u47	Indeed, in this case, safety studies are no longer valid!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic281x.u48	It's not written for nothing! You write yourself that we cannot go beyond it and it is not by saying that the studies were done up to 50 degrees, it is because beyond this temperature, it has no meaning, the risk is too great. That's what's written about the 50 degrees, but not about the 45 degrees. Now I agree!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic281x.u49	The safety studies were conducted with the limit value of 50 degrees. We don't overstep it. As far as independence from decision-making is concerned, I can assure you that I have no influence in political matters in making a decision quickly or without the direction of a decision. In this regard, we have not been subjected to any pressure from the political world in relation to our decision. As for the chronology, it is obvious that we did not see the 1,000 pages of the file for the first time on the night of 12-13. The Agency's experts were aware of the documents being prepared. So we knew what they contained. It was the final document, after all the comments and questions raised, that arrived on the 12th, duly signed, approved, validated by the American authorities at Aok Ridge. The Agency finalized its report and validated that all assumptions were well reflected in the final report. The Scientific Council has also examined it, the Scientific Council which we have kept informed of the progress of the dossier. At each meeting, we showed him the status of studies and trials. On Monday evening, 16th, the Council gave its green light. On the 17th, the decision was taken. Of course, it was not me alone in my corner who received a 1,000-page file and studied it at night to approve it the next morning. There's a team behind...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic281x.u50	So you had a meeting between the 16th and the morning of the 17th, since you are obviously not alone in making the decision.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic281x.u51	We were there on the 16th!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic281x.u52	No, on the 16th, the official report of the Scientific Council comes to you. You say you spent the night there and made your decision the next day. My question is whether the next morning you had a team meeting and discussed it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic281x.u53	The conclusion of the Scientific Council was to validate the Agency's report.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic281x.u54	This is not in the documents!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic281x.u55	No! I can give it to you if you wish.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic281x.u56	I hope so!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic281x.u57	We were all present at the delivery of this opinion and followed the discussions. The findings of the Agency's experts were not questioned. The decision, for me, was easy, because all the opinions were in the same direction except one.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic281x.u58	Except that of Mr Bogaerts (he plays the man) and that of the expert I spoke about and about whom I did not get any answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic281x.u59	We'll answer you. We will search the documents and forward our answer to you at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic281x.u60	I wanted to know if he was the same expert who was critical in 2013.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic281x.u61	We have guaranteed the experts their anonymity.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic281x.u62	I'm not asking for the expert's name, but if it's the same as in 2013 or if you ejected it because it was disturbing. We have a list of all the experts. I'm asking you if it's the same.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic281x.u63	I don't know who you're talking about.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic281x.u64	The IRB, which was the IEB in 2013, is composed of eight or nine experts. Today, the composition is different; in part they are the same, in part they are other. In 2013, one expert was more critical than the others. This was explicitly confirmed by the CEN expert. It is the one who made this remark on the margin at 100 degrees rather than at 50 degrees. Has this expert been included in your new committee – always constituted as you wish – or has it been preferred to eject because it bothered too much?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic281x.u65	The composition of the expert group is different from that of two years ago because the mission is different. In 2012, it was not yet known what it was about. First we had to sweep the whole terrain to identify the problem. So we selected experts who had a much more comprehensive view in different areas. In 2014-15, it was known that there was a problem with the holding of materials under irradiation. As a result, the group of experts was much more focused. It is another group that has been formed to study this problem really in depth. We didn't sweep an expert because he didn't fit. That is not the case at all. We wanted different expertise. But I don't know what expert you're talking about. We'd have to check it out.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic281x.u66	I believe that the other questions will be answered in writing.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic281x.u67	Mr Bens, will you forward the interim report?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic281x.u68	Working documents are not public.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic281x.u69	I am sorry, but you are referring to this document in your report. We do not have the May 2015 document. We have your answers but not the May 2015 document. Therefore, I would ask you to provide us with this official document, that is, this notice of May 2015 containing a minority note. You refer to this in your final document. We need to know the comments made at the time. It's like Electrabel, you gave the safety case, first version and then the second. So we need the first and second versions. This seems normal to me in terms of transparency.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic281x.u70	Mr Nollet, I take note of your request.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic281x.u71	The positions are clear. It shall be examined whether a written reply can be given. I propose that we close the hearing and discuss the second item on our agenda, the order of business, in detail at a forthcoming sitting.
