ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic208x.u1	Mr Minister, I had tabled this question in the Committee on the Interior, but it has been redirected to your department. Is this to be seen as a sign that you will now endorse, on behalf of the government, the terrorism issue? The press relayed a large-scale operation conducted on 8 June in various parts of the Kingdom in terrorist circles. This operation was carried out jointly by the judiciary, the police and, as I understand it, with the contribution of the OCAM services. Even if the needs of the investigation require some discretion, we can already say that this operation shows the effectiveness of justice in this area. But can you tell us more? It's about starting a search. Have these led to arrests? If so, on what count? What is the potential attack here? Do we have an idea of the targets? It seems there was no use of force. Do you confirm that? Which police departments have supported this operation?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic208x.u2	With regard to the investigation conducted in West Flanders, two persons were placed under arrest by the investigating judge. In addition, warrants of arrest by default will be issued for two persons. The judicial investigation was initiated for acts of participation in a terrorist group. In the investigation conducted by the Anti-Terrorist Investigative Judge of Antwerp, Malines Division, the various searches have so far not given any evidence to confirm the initial evidence of the preparation of an attack in Belgium. A total of 21 non-incidental searches were carried out with the support of the judicial police. Unfortunately, I must tell you that I cannot give you any more details. This would not be compatible with the principle of separation of powers and the secrecy of the investigation. The clarifications were provided by the prosecutor's office, who authorized their communication.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic208x.u3	Minister, I understand the restrictions you must observe in your responses and thank you for your clarification.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic208x.u4	Minister, parental abductions cause terrible suffering, the impact of which cannot be minimized, both on children who are brutally removed from their entourage and place of life, and on parents who remain in the country, suffering from the feeling of impotence and abandonment. The phenomenon affects hundreds of families every year in our country. In certain cases and under certain conditions, the SPF Justice, which acts as the Belgian central authority, can provide these parents with financial support and cooperate in the practical arrangements for the return of the child to Belgium. I would like more information on this budget appropriation from the Justice FPS, because I personally met with victims of parental abduction - I am talking about the parents - who told me of difficulties in obtaining reimbursements and in determining how to introduce the files. My questions are therefore as follows. Can you detail precisely the cases in which the FPS Justice can provide parents who are victims of parental abduction with assistance and financial support, as well as the conditions? Are all expenses incurred by parents in the search for a child reimbursed by the FPS Justice or are there limits? If so, which ones? How long can families expect a refund? What is the number of files submitted annually? How much is the planned appropriation? What amounts have been reimbursed over the past five years? Have you encountered any difficulties in obtaining financial support from the FPS Justice in parental abduction cases? If so, what do you think they are due? What can be done to address this?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic208x.u5	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am very sensitive to the problem of international child abduction. I am therefore trying to be attentive to any improvement that I could promote in the interests of the parents concerned, but, it should be recalled, children are the first victims of these very painful situations. To answer your question, I confirm that a budget allocation was made in 2005 within the Justice FPS to assist parents who are victims of the abduction of their child(s) by the other parent and who do not have sufficient financial resources. In general, the budget appropriation may be used for cases in which the FPS Justice acts as the central authority responsible for the implementation of the 1980 Luxembourg European Convention, the 1980 Hague Convention, supplemented by the European Regulation known as "Brussels IIa". It can also be used in cases where the FPS Justice intervenes within the framework of the Belgian-Tunisian and Belgian-Moroccan advisory commissions. Financial assistance is granted to persons whose income is below the threshold set by the Royal Decree of 18 December 2003 determining the conditions for the total or partial free access to second-line legal aid and legal aid, commonly known as pro deo. The financial assistance provided by the FPS Justice is intended to reimburse travel expenses, which include the costs of returning children illegally displaced abroad to Belgium, the travel expenses of the parent accompanying the child(s) on his/her return to Belgium, the travel expenses of the parent for the exercise of a right to personal contact during legal proceedings or amicable settlement, the travel expenses of the parent to attend a hearing abroad, if his/her physical presence is imposed by law or by the foreign judge or is strongly advised by the foreign central authority or the representative of the parent concerned. Costs incurred for the release of a case by international mediation may also be partially covered. Thus, in principle, the financial support provided by the PPS Justice, the costs of accommodation, food and representation by a lawyer abroad and the costs of justice are excluded. In addition, persons facing financial difficulties may apply to the FPS Foreign Affairs, which can assist Belgian nationals in situations of illicit displacement of children or experiencing difficulties in exercising their right of access abroad. A budget line also exists at Child Focus. A parent wishing to obtain financial assistance from the FPS Justice must submit their application with relevant supporting documents to the central authority. In the event of a positive response, the "Budget and Management Control" service shall, as far as possible, make the payment within the following month. In the event of an emergency, in the event of a very precarious financial situation of the applicant, the central authority may request a faster payment. The Fund was used nine times in 2012, in six cases, for a total amount of €16,438; eight times in 2013, in seven cases, for a total amount of €5,735; once in 2014, in one case, for a total amount of €775. For 2015, six applications were approved for six files amounting to €7,810. I personally did not have any particular difficulties in obtaining financial support from the FPS Justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic208x.u6	Mr President, I thank the minister for his answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic208x.u7	Mr President, Minister, my question has its source in the news a few weeks ago, but it is still on the agenda. This isn't the first time Lantin's prison's been talking about her. The press reported that a giant hole formed on the floor of the prison a few weeks ago. Prison staff are very concerned that the prison is going into ruins. He is also concerned about the very stability of the building, given the collapse. Workers made a temporary repair by pouring concrete into the hole. Many were concerned that the destruction of the building would lead to the final closure of the prison in the short or medium term, which would lead to the need to re-establish nearly 500 prisoners in other Kingdom prisons, who were already the victims of unacceptable overcrowding. This is not the only important problem in the structure of this building and yet only makeshift repairs are proposed for the moment. Minister, did you visit the scene to learn about the situation? What are you planning for Lantin's future? What do you intend to do in the short, medium and long term to ensure the safety of inmates and staff? What do you intend to do in the short, medium and long term to provide a decent living environment for inmates and a decent work environment for staff? When can Lantin hope for a solution to the ruin of his building? If a major renovation is planned, how do you intend to do it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic208x.u8	The situation in Lantin prison does require special attention. I had the opportunity to go there personally some time ago. I was able to see for myself that the infrastructure, particularly the prison, was in poor condition. However, I think it is appropriate to recall that the Régie des Bâtiments plays a central role, being competent for infrastructure matters. The causes of last week's incident have not yet been determined, but the experts of the Régie des Bâtiments believe that the stability of the building is not in danger as a result of this ground collapse. Of course, we must continue to look for causes, but I trust the Régie to take care of them with all due diligence. More generally, the situation in Lantin is monitored on a day-to-day basis, both at the level of the DGEPI and at the level of the Régie des Bâtiments, the final manager. Finally, I can confirm that a project relating to the situation in Lantin will be included in my proposal for a new master plan 3.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic208x.u9	You're aware of the situation since you went there. You saw that the conditions were difficult. Then, even if we study them, the causes are in the basement. I'm not a specialist, but it seems that this is the main cause. The building is therefore in permanent danger. Finally, you say that important works will be integrated into Master Plan 3. I am very interested in the latter because Verviers, located a few kilometres from Lantin, must also appear there. I'll take this opportunity to remind you. I recently went to visit the ruins – because these are ruins. My fear is that we will never rebuild Verviers and that, in addition, we will have to see the closure. This was a threat at some point, expressed by the local mayor: close Lantin too. I'm thinking about the inmates, but I'm thinking about the staff. I hope that in your master plan you will be extremely attentive to Lantin and also Verviers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic208x.u10	Thank you, Mr. Frédéric, who loves Verviers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic208x.u11	Mr. Chair, Mr.Minister, it is my responsibility that the appointment of four Francophone tax substitutes would have been blocked following a negative opinion from the Inspectorate of Finance. However, it seems that the additional wage cost amounts to more or less 300 euros per substitute. Minister, do you confirm this information? If so, can you clarify the reasons for the negative opinion of the Finance Inspectorate? Can you confirm to us the amounts of the additional salary costs mentioned? When can we hope for a release of the situation?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic208x.u12	Mr President, Mr Laaouej, Article 194 of the Judicial Code provides that the function of substitute prosecutor of the King specializing in tax matters is assigned to a candidate who justifies this specialized knowledge by his qualifications or experience. In the event of the publication of a vacancy at the Public Prosecutor's Office of the King, the Minister of Justice may indicate that priority is given to a candidate who has specialized knowledge of his or her qualifications or experience. Its qualifications and experience shall be examined by the Appointments and Designations Commission referred to in Article 259bis/8e. You correctly indicate that an annual salary supplement of up to €6,544 is allocated to a substitute acting as a tax substitute. In the Moniteur belge of 29 May, 70 vacant places of magistrates were published for the Public Prosecutor's Office, including 39 substitute places for the King's Prosecutor. This publication was made in consultation with the College of the Public Prosecutor's Office and following the favourable opinion of the Inspectorate of Finance. It is inaccurate that the Finance Inspectorate has blocked places for tax substitutes. As regards the public prosecutor's offices in Liège and Mons, no place for tax substitutes has been published in this first set of publications following a request to this effect by the College of the Public Prosecutor's Office, on the one hand, because of the lack of qualified candidates for years, as evidenced by the permanent republications and, on the other hand, following an urgent need for generalists. In my consultation with the College of Attorneys General and the College of Public Prosecutions, it is clear that the two colleges are aware of the importance of tax substitutes but that the recruitment of general practitioners offers the flexibility that the prosecution is in great need at the moment. This is in no way detrimental to the fight against any criminal phenomenon, given that there are also specialists in environmental law, cyber-criminality, bankruptcy and other criminal phenomena, or in specific research methods, who approach crime with such motivation, without any additional allocation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic208x.u13	Mr President, it is difficult to see clearly. So I'm gonna take the time for the analysis. I note that there would be two difficulties. On the one hand, the inability to find the candidates who would have the right profile, in other words, to have candidates who would be adequately qualified. On the other hand, the need for the Public Prosecutor's Office to employ generalist substitutes. I would like to draw the Minister's attention to the fact that these tax substitutes operate in a very important area – without saying that the other areas are not – which concerns tax-related criminal litigation. We are at the heart of the interest of the Treasury, of the state's public finances. It would therefore be useful to ensure that our prosecution offices are adequately equipped with tax substitutes. I note that there is a renewal of the calls for applications. I have no doubt that the minister will continue in this direction. Maybe we'll have to come back to do the same thing again.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic208x.u14	Mr President, I made a mistake in the numbers. These are 47 (instead of 70) vacant places, including 39 replacement places for the King's Prosecutor.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic208x.u15	Mr President, Minister, as you mentioned in the point in the Justice Plan concerning the redevelopment of the judicial cantons, and in accordance with the government agreement, you are going to reorganize the judicial cantons throughout the country, in a difficult arbitration between budgetary restrictions and the efficiency of quality justice. According to your Justice Plan, we will gradually enter the first phase of this rationalization, i.e. the centralization into one seat of cantons with two or more seats. This applies to a total of 35 cantons in Belgium for a total of 76 seats. Still according to this one, you will start work where the authorities are asking and where there is a housing problem. This reorganisation actually generates substantial savings for Justice, not only financially but also in terms of staff travel time. Mr Minister, my colleague Mr David Clarinval has already asked you about possible removals of Beauraing and Gedinne's seats of peace in South Namur. Recently, the press revealed that you had begun the effort to rationalize the Belgian landscape of the justices of peace, confirmed the fears of my colleague, to which was added the possible closure of the justice of peace of Florennes-Walcourt. Minister, what cantons in Namur are involved in this first phase of centralization? Have you ever arbitrated the places where justices of peace would be maintained? What were or are your arbitration criteria? If you confirm the information relayed by the press, some Namurians will have to travel more than 50 kilometres to reach the justice of peace. In a context where these areas are also most affected by the cost-saving measures of other public services such as post or transport, how do you intend to ensure community justice in more rural areas? What are the first returns of the professionals of the sector, magistrates and lawyers, on this reorganization in the province of Namur? As part of this redevelopment, you have certainly already had to meet with the judicial authorities in Namur province. What has emerged from this consultation? Could you give an agenda of the various phases of this part of the Justice Plan relating to the redevelopment of the judicial cantons for the province of Namur? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic208x.u16	Mrs Thoron, I have mentioned on several occasions the reform of the justice system in this committee. I also indicated that it was premature to give details. In the meantime, no formal decision has been taken. This exercise is not an easy task and must take into account many factors. What I can say is that in choosing the location, given the centralisation of the double and triple cantons, the following elements will certainly be taken into account: the geographical location, the condition and the status of the building, the preference expressed by the justices of the peace concerned, taking into account the most convenient location and the workload. We hope to finalize soon, the first phase with implementation, in terms of principles, which will still take months or even years for certain sites. Then a second phase will come which we hope will be completed by the autumn, which concerns the study of the possibility of grouping cantons located in urban areas which are already adjacent and/or already housed in the same building.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic208x.u17	Minister, thank you for your answer. I do understand that you do not yet have a precise answer. I mean, you're going to take the geographical criteria into consideration. I just want to stress that citizens may find themselves at some point in difficulty. It is important for them to have close and quality justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic208x.u18	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Terwingen's 5138 was converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic208x.u19	Mr Minister, shortly after his appointment as Director of the Central Commission for the Confiscation and Declaration, Mr Jacobs raised the alarm about the state of the institution. He asked for additional IT support to put an end to the archaic way of working within the COlV. He also asked for additional staff to be able to cope with the increasing workload and additional tasks assigned to the COlV. You have been questioned a number of times, Minister. You have always said that you have the necessary support. You have repeated that intention in a number of interviews, including in De Juistenkrant. I filed my question three weeks ago. Meanwhile, an interview appeared in Knack with Mr Jacobs, who really does raise the alarm as a result of the collapse of COIV. People are going to visit more and more other places. He is also talking about a pile of cash of EUR 524 million lying there, with which little or nothing is done. We are dealing with 20 000 dossiers which can be done little or nothing because we do not have the necessary information from the Registry and the Public Prosecutors. You have promised to provide additional staff temporarily until the end of December. That still doesn't seem to be there. Minister, how many employees worked at COIV last year and how many work today? What budget did you provide for lT support for COIV for 2015? What initiatives do you intend to take with this? What plans do you have for IT and staff with COIV for 2016? What is your response to the Director's distress call, which almost begs you and Minister Van Overtveldt to sit together to deal with and solve the problems?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic208x.u20	Mr Minister, the situation has already been outlined by my colleague. Mr Vanvelthoven, I remember the title of the newspaper article when the new director took office: 'You do not want to know how we are doing'. Minister, I remember this because I asked a question in plenary to your predecessor, Mrs Turtelboom. She then announced that there would be an accounting programme. I asked you a written question at the beginning of 2015. I asked you about this programme, knowing that the COIV must manage hundreds of millions of euros, and the problem is that identity is not always obvious. You replied that this would happen in the course of 2015 and that there would be a budget of EUR 425 000. What would not happen is an internal audit or external financial audit of the accounts by an independent and expert body. That's not gonna happen at first. However, you would like to evaluate the operation of the new programme and the results in the accounting field. Only on that basis do you want to assess whether an internal audit makes sense or offers added value. We know the coalition agreement. It explicitly states that particular attention would be paid to improving the efficiency of COIV, which would be done in collaboration with the FPS Finance. You have also listed a number of measures in the Justice Plan. That is why I have the following questions. What is the state of play with regard to the entry into force of that accounting programme? Can you confirm that with the estimated cost of EUR 425 000, we will still receive? Do you also know the cost of the framework contract for the technical support of the ICT staff of the FPS Justice Department to run the project? Also important, what is the state of play regarding the accompanying measures you announced for the optimization of COIV? I am thinking here of the royal decision that needs to be taken, which allows the COIV to effectively carry out its powers for carrying out bank investigations after conviction. I am also thinking of a measure to facilitate the management of assets and, finally, the creation of a statute for and evaluation of management and staff. I know that measures will be taken in autumn 2015 to improve recovery and court fees, but I would have liked to have heard about these other matters.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic208x.u21	Mrs De Wit, Mr Vanvelthoven, the evolution of the COIV staff strength is 29 full-time equivalents on 1 January 2014 to increase by 10 seconded workers. It is 24,60 full-time equivalents on 1 January 2015, to be increased by 8 seconded persons. It will be 22.8 full-time equivalents on 1 August 2015, with 8 seconded persons also to be added. This decline in effectiveness is due to the linear savings measures currently being implemented by the federal government to keep the budget in balance. As far as posted workers are concerned, the fluctuation is due to the renewal of two Treasury officials, which has been carried out in the meantime. Recently, the two liaison magistrates have dropped out. For this purpose, a call was published in the Belgian Official Journal on 12 June to 26 June. No candidates have applied. A new call is therefore being launched shortly, reducing the seniority requirement in the hope of attracting more candidates. During the 2015 Budgetary Control, additional staff appropriations were obtained for the FPS Justice. Together with the Optifed loans, amounting to 213 000 euros, they open up a perspective to recruiting contractual staff for COIV. The COIV ICT budget is €32 000. There is not so much a need for important additional IT investments as for putting into operation the accounting application developed in the meantime. This is started after the summer recess, after training the users. It is not unlikely that some adjustments and adjustments will have to be made after the start-up, and some so-called bugs will also have to be removed. The hardware infrastructure was tested to determine whether it is sufficiently powerful to run this application. That's what turned out to be the case. In addition, it analysed how the influx of information can be digitised. Both the e-Box for the judicial order and the e-Deposit for the judicial order and the police are eligible. The legal basis for the use of this application is contained in the draft law on civil proceedings. The roll-out of the e-Box will take place in the coming year. The talks with police about the IT application to be used were also started. After the above IT projects have been rolled out, the next step is to set up an electronic file and electronic file management. However, it is appropriate, within the framework of good change management, not to allow too many processes of change to happen at the same time. In the meantime, the draft law on new COIV legislation is in the process of being drafted. It is intended to discuss this in Parliament in the autumn. It should facilitate cooperation with the public prosecutors, prosecutors and investigators in order to provide the COIV of the other actors with the necessary information to enable a COIV dossier to be completed in good time. The draft law will include measures to facilitate the management of assets, measures to intervene in court costs, including the storage costs of vessels and vessels, and measures to achieve better recovery. It also creates a statute and evaluation of the management and the staff made available, which should ensure a better stability of the service. With regard to bank investigations, the consultation with the National Bank of Belgium has been completed and the protocols for access to the Central Contact Point at the National Bank are for signature. My policy cell closely follows the situation of COIV, in order to work together with Mr Jacobs, the director, to find solutions to facilitate cooperation and the smoother functioning of COIV. As you can see, work is being done in all areas to improve the working situation of the COIV, an important actor in the penalty chain.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic208x.u22	Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive reply. I'm gonna have a lot of questions. You are talking about an extra budget, and you say that this opens up prospects for recruiting contractual staff. Opening perspectives does not, in my view, mean that you will recruit additional contractual staff. You said you were gonna work with the director to find solutions. This indicates that you do not yet fully see the solutions. However, this problem has been going on for a long time. There are more files, and I'm not even talking about the files of the past, and there's less staff. There is an urgent need for decisive action. The new law may be necessary for a number of matters, but I doubt that this new law will improve the day-to-day functioning, Minister. I would ask you not only to follow up closely, but also to provide a solution in the next few months.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic208x.u23	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. COIV is an important part of the entire judicial process, which must be followed with attention. There is indeed a need to work towards a smoother functioning. It has been a long time, my question dates back to the previous legislature. I am pleased that in the autumn there will be a draft law that can put this into effect, both in terms of regulation and in terms of COIV. That's where the big difference will have to be made. It can no longer be that the diamonds, as in the past, are simply thrown into a bin and that afterward they do not know what belongs to who. I would know, I'd choose the most beautiful, but that's not how it works. This is not the time, Minister, this is unacceptable. It's a shame it had to come to this. I hope you'll get it sorted out.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic208x.u24	Mr President, Minister, since it was made public, the project to build a mega-prison in Haren has attracted many criticisms and opposition movements. I'm sure you've been following the news and you know it. Whether it is in terms of connectivity with the Brussels courthouse, mobility, size of infrastructure, conditions of detention of future prisoners or destruction of protected natural spaces on the Haren site, this project raises questions. The lack of consideration of the problematic dimensions of this project and the many issues that persist only reinforce the discontent of all actors. The local residents and activists of the first hour were joined by lawyers and magistrates who also denounce the many shortcomings of the project. In order to shed light on certain aspects of this project, I would therefore like to ask you the following questions. Do you have an accurate estimate of the total cost of this project? If so, what is the cost? We're talking a lot about estimates at this point. We're talking about $3 billion, is that correct? How much will the State's annual prison fee be? At the same time, how much is estimated the cost per prisoner per year in this future prison? Finally, the project seems to have been the subject of a concertation between the different levels of power, particularly between the Federal State and the Brussels Region. What are the issues that have been discussed and what are the resulting agreements? Can you provide documents or documents attesting to these agreements or consultations?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic208x.u25	Ladies and gentlemen, since a number of questions are attached, I propose that you continue to ask your questions. We will then move on to Mr. Maingain, Mrs. De Wit and myself.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic208x.u26	Minister, as you know, when we talk about the master plan and the plan to build a prison in Haren, there are necessarily potential impacts on the prisons in Saint-Gilles and Forest. That's why I introduced two related questions. They concern the future of the three detention centres: Saint-Gilles, Forest and Berkendael. Saint-Gilles was built at the end of the 19th century and has already undergone numerous renovations. Not later than 2009, major renovation and extension work began on the B wing of the prison, with the other four wings being previously treated. This work was completed in 2012. They allowed not only the renovation of the wing, but also the increase of the capacity of the cells. I would therefore like to ask you the following questions. How much does this work actually cost? It is intended to circulate estimates of €7.5 million for wing B. In addition, given the work, consider extending the use of this prison. Have you had any discussions with the Régie des Bâtiments about this? What are the avenues envisaged today for the future of the prison of Saint-Gilles? As far as the Forest prison is concerned, as you know, its state of old age and the inhuman conditions of detention there have already been repeatedly denounced and are known to all: overcrowded cells, lack of sanitary facilities, visits and slow-movements, limited or impossible access by external actors, and the right to ill health. The shocking unsanitary nature of Forest Prison endangers the lives of prisoners and staff every day and violates many fundamental rights. It is therefore urgent to remedy this. The master prison plan would include the closure of the Forest prison and its Berkendael women's unit and the transfer of its inmates to the future Haren mega-prison. Today, however, it is already known that the number of places planned in Haren will not be sufficient to accommodate all prisoners in the prisons of St-Gilles, Forest and Berkendael. Minister, my questions are as follows. What will become of the present Forest prison and its Berkendael women's entity? Will they both be permanently and completely closed? In addition, is there any other assignment of these locations? If so, which one? Have you ever had any contact with your colleague in charge of the Régie des Bâtiments on this subject?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic208x.u27	Minister, this is not the first time that we have mentioned in committee the subject of Haren's mega-prison. However, it raises, and rightly so, many questions and oppositions. It swells and becomes more and more structured. This weekend, I read in the press that you considered the project irreversible, the procedure being so advanced that you no longer have the opportunity to stop the project. I don't know if you have to infer that you regret it or that you adhere to it. However, the Court of Auditors has already questioned certain budgetary aspects. It is probably time to have some objective data, since estimates are circulating without the necessary clarification. The mega-prison project no longer meets a modern vision of prison policy. There are excellent experts in this field to say that it is part of a completely outdated conception of the management of prison institutions. Some imagine that it is by announcing such projects that they will solve the problem of crime. Wrong choice! This does not mean that we should not be firm in some cases, but we do not reintegrate prisoners who have lived in prison universes of this magnitude and devoid of all humanity as well as adequate accompaniment. What is the breakdown of the Haren prison construction budget? What is the expected cost of its operation - it would be interesting to know whether evaluations are under way - and on what assumptions have these calculations been made? Can you detail the announced cost of EUR 60 million per year for 25 years? I do not know whether the City of Brussels will contribute to its management, as in the case of the stadium; I do not believe... Have these costs been compared with the budgetary impact of other options? Has the trail of a renovation of the prison in Saint-Gilles been studied? How was Haren's land chosen when it was more than 15 km from the Brussels courthouse? In addition to the local urban aspects, this remains the major argument against the construction of this mega-prison. His conception was based on the principle that "since she is far from the courthouse, justice will go to prison". It is a project that is already doomed to failure. There is no judge responsible for accepting the idea that the criminal courts should sit in the prison itself, even under certain guarantees. This runs counter to key principles. I have again recently noted statements by the President of the Brussels Court of First Instance, Luc Hennart, at which he clearly announced that he would not hold a hearing from his court at the future Haren prison. You are, no doubt, the heir of a bad file, even though it was initiated by the previous governments in which your party participated. Today, we are facing a megalomaniac project which will undoubtedly lead to one of the largest construction sites, not totally useless, but not responding to any of the current conceptions in terms of the management of prison institutions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic208x.u28	Minister, there is a great deal of protest against the new large prison in Haren that will replace the current prisons of Prince, Saint Gillis and Berkendael. There is not only legal protest, but also vandalism and arson. Minister, what is the current state of play on the prison plans in Haren? Is opening in 2016 still realistic? What procedures are currently under way in respect of these construction plans? What is the status of these procedures? I also think it is important to see the new destination of the current Brussels prisons. Some prisons are worn out to the wire. We should not think about this too long. In Sint-Gillis a recently renovated wing took place. Doesn't it make sense to keep that wing open as a solution for the overpopulation that is already threatening in Haren? Is it a piste for you to keep Saint Gillis open? Then I have a question for a number of figures. How many prisoners are currently in the Brussels prisons? What is the degree of overpopulation? I know that last week a report on the past year was presented. What's the status today? Is the protocol concluded at the time with the workers in Saint Gillis still being respected in order not to allow overcrowding?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic208x.u29	My question also concerns Haren prison and echoes a statement by a Brussels investigating judge that in Haren prison plans too many places would be reserved for preventive detention. What is the daily average of detainees in pre-trial detention for the Brussels-Hal-Vilvorde districts? How was this evaluation carried out during the design of this facility and in the evolution of its project? Do you think that the 612 places that are currently planned correspond to the needs? This judge estimates that 200 places are surplus to actual requirements. Is re-evaluation possible and under what conditions?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic208x.u30	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, everyone has been complaining for some time about the untenable situation in Brussels prisons. Many of you have told me about this in the many debates that we had the pleasure of conducting together. A renovation is not possible or it will never bring a lasting solution, giving at the same time opportunities to offer a complete set of human detentions. A prison has become more than just a place of confinement and all its other functions and activities require a lot of space. That is why we are now trying to provide an answer with the Haren complex. It is not a mega-prison where inmates find themselves in a mass complex. Rather, it is a village prison where a living environment and small entities are created. Haren is also trying to address the existing needs, namely, a humane place for each inmate. I therefore believe that we are on the right track and that it is important for the well-being of inmates and staff in Brussels institutions to continue this project. A project of this magnitude inevitably raises many questions and concerns. We have always been in consultation with the actors concerned. Among these actors, residents occupy an important place. I can provide you with a long list of all the consultation meetings and discussion sessions that have taken place with local residents, the city, the Region, mobility experts, criminologists, etc. The door is always open to listen to the concerns of those who have not yet been heard. Of course, these actors include magistrates and lawyers as well. I take note of the opinion of some in the press and elsewhere, but I would not say that there is resistance from the entire legal world. I remain convinced that the holding of hearings near a prison is a good thing for all concerned, and first of all for the detainees who today, for a whole day, must be transported and then wait, often handcuffed, for hours in the basement of a courthouse to appear just ten minutes before a council chamber. I think everyone will admit that there is more effective and that this can be organised with respect for the rights of everyone. You refer to formal agreements that would exist on paper, but that is not the case. The file has almost completed all normal and necessary administrative and procedural steps, and it is also within this framework that reports, notices and claims for compensation are available. But as you probably know, all this is not yet finalized. The city's opinion, which was positive, was received and it is now up to the Region to decide on the authorizations. In the meantime, we have obtained a new building permit from Flanders for the access road and very recently the environmental permit for the prison itself of the Brussels Region. So now there is the building permit for the prison, on which the Region still has to decide. No procedures have yet been initiated. The construction has not yet started, so a large yard like this cannot be finished in 2016. We expect to be done with the prison by 2018. As for the questions on financing, I must refer you to the colleague responsible for the Régie des Bâtiments. A preferential bidder, the Cafasso consortium, has already been nominated in 2013. It is the Régie des Bâtiments that leads the contractual negotiations with the latter. These negotiations are still under way. The final contract has not yet been concluded. It is only after these negotiations have been concluded that the final cost of the project can be accurately communicated. You will understand that I must remain on my reserve in view of these negotiations that are still under way. Two detention centres are currently included in the Haren project, each with 306 places. This was calculated on the basis of 2010 figures and needs when the project took shape. The numbers you quote are not entirely correct. The Brussels prisons currently house 796 defendants. A total of 1 326 prisoners are staying in the Brussels prisons today for 1 024 places. Arrest houses are designed to house the accused. In this context, it is important to recall what the prison administration means by the accused. The concept of an accused person's prison is indeed broader than that of a person under an arrest warrant. In fact, it includes all detained persons who are not convicted or permanently interned. You will therefore find persons under arrest, persons sent back to the correctional court or assize court but who remain detained pending trial, persons sentenced by default with immediate arrest whose opposition period has not expired or for whom the opposition has not yet been received, those convicted at first instance with immediate arrest where an appeal has been lodged or for whom the appeal period has not yet expired and some other more marginal categories. It is therefore not enough to calculate the number of accused under arrest warrants. You will therefore find that the capacity in Haren's detention facility (612 places) will be just now, even insufficient, without taking into account the other measures. But as we were already aware at the time of possible fluctuations in numbers, the building was designed to accommodate different groups of inmates. In practice, this means that if it appears that too many places are provided for persons in pre-trial detention, they can be converted to a ward for convicted persons. You know that my dearest wish, which I have always expressed, was that one day it would come true. With regard to the issues concerning Forest and Saint-Gilles, the Council of Ministers has in the past decided that in a modern and forward-looking detention policy there is a need for a new complex in Brussels and that the existing facilities would be closed. This decision is still applicable. There are also no plans to continue using these facilities. I have no jurisdiction over the future allocation of these sites. Once these prisons are decommissioned, they will be transferred from Justice to the Régie des Bâtiments, which manages the federal state's real estate assets. For the exact cost of the work of the B wing of Saint-Gilles, I must also refer you to my colleague, who is competent for the Régie, but I can tell you that when the decision was made to close, there was mention of work that had to be continued so that the establishments would be kept operational for a period of almost ten years. This does not detract from the fact that the prisons in Brussels, including those in Saint-Gilles, are not adapted to the needs of modern detention. Finally, with regard to the protocol for St Gillis, to which Mrs De Wit is asking, I can say that this was lifted during the previous parliamentary term, mid-2012.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic208x.u31	I understand that you are in consultation with the area, the residents and other entities such as the City and the Regions. That's obviously very good. It is true that what is a little surprising is that there is little inflection in the project or consideration of the claims of all these categories of people. I also note all the references you have made to the Régie des Bâtiments. I will therefore not fail to question your colleague, the Minister of the Interior. Information on financing and the contract is also noted and is therefore not yet available. We will not fail to return to you if necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic208x.u32	Mr President, in my speech I put forward two essential elements. The first is the problem of the size of the prison. When the Court of Auditors in 2011 carried out a very interesting audit of the management of the country's prisons and successive master plans, the Court of Auditors pointed out that the optimal management of a prison institution should be based on a maximum number of places between 300 and 450 on the same site. We can obviously subdivide by saying that there will be two separate entities but let's not be fooled, it's on the same site. We'll almost get more than double. We have an indisputable scale problem. What is at issue is that the study on the Haren prison project has never been made public. I am not even sure that the Court of Auditors ever did. I will write to the Court of Auditors to find out and ask if she has the study. The second aspect that I put forward, which is clearly in the unknown, is that we launch a project and that today you recognize that you do not have objective data to determine the cost of managing this prison. However, it is still a matter of putting the plough ahead of the oxen to be able to design a project of this magnitude without having an estimate of the cost of management. I can understand. It is not you who started the project, but there is still continuity in the services and it can be estimated that it is a case that was finally set up with the sole wish to say that there will be a large prison in Brussels. You say, "The renovation of Saint-Gilles was not possible." Of course the buildings of Saint-Gilles prison and Forest prison, which are still in worse condition, may not be suitable, but the sites can be partially or completely rebuilt and we have a proximity. So we could very well have managed the current sites that are far from negligible, but it was a political choice that was made at the time. I'm a little sorry you assumed it without a critical mind.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic208x.u33	Thank you for your reply, Minister. Eventually, the overpopulation is still large today. So I think there's still a lot of work to be done. There are 1 024 places for 1 326 people. That is why we have always thought that at least, even for the time being, we should keep that wing open in Saint Gillis so that there is shelter, even though it is archaic and not adapted to our times. Even though it's just awaiting a rerouting of the prison population through all kinds of other interventions. I hear that's a different decision. I take note of your reply on the protocol. It surprises me a little, because at the time your predecessor told me something else. So I take note that it no longer exists. I therefore assume that there is an overpopulation in Saint Gillis. I wouldn't want to be there either way, but with these temperatures I certainly wouldn't.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic208x.u34	Question No 5180 by Mr Maingain was withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic208x.u35	Mr President, Mr Minister, by royal decree of 19 March, you have provided that the registry of the French-speaking commercial court in Brussels will now be open on working days from 8.30 a.m. to 12.30 p.m. Thus, except for the filing of urgent submissions or requests, the Registry is no longer accessible from 1:30 p.m. to 4:00 p.m., as it has been applicable since 2001. This closure in the afternoon has very concrete consequences for the work of lawyers. The use of the services of the Registry, within binding time limits, is indeed indispensable for the exercise of the profession and, where appropriate, the exercise of judicial mandates entrusted to them. Thus, in the absence of timely submissions or claims, lawyers may be subject to their professional liability. The Ordre des barreaus francophones et germanophone has also brought an action for annulment of the Royal Decree of 19 March 2015 before the Conseil d'État, in that it infringes both the freedom to undertake and the right to the free exercise of the profession of lawyer and the principle of continuity of the public service of justice. In addition, scheduling does not allow large users of the registry, such as trustees of bankruptcy, whose judicial mandate is very specific and who sometimes ask them to perform certain acts in a timely manner. Mr Minister, can you please let me know how the situation at the Registry of the French-speaking commercial court in Brussels is different from the other registry offices in the country and why it is only closed in the afternoon? Have any other avenues been considered? One could, for example, provide for a permanence for all urgent acts to be performed in the afternoon at the Registry, and not only for the filing of urgent submissions and requests. In addition, the four morning opening hours could be allocated to two in the morning and two in the afternoon, for example, if this is a staff problem. Is the Royal Decree of 19 March 2015 limited in time? Will it at the very least be assessed in order to define whether or not it is necessary to maintain the reduction in opening hours in time?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic208x.u36	Mr President, Mr Maingain, at the time of the doubling of the Brussels courts on 31 March 2014, the French-speaking commercial court in Brussels had no chief clerk or clerk-in-chief. He had only six clerks appointed on an interim basis, who took office in September 2013, eleven assistants and two part-time financial experts on an organic basis from an A3 chief clerk, two clerks at the A2 level, sixteen clerks at the B level, fifteen assistants at the C level and staff at the D level. To date, there is still no appointed chief clerk. The only French-speaking referendum of the Brussels Commercial Court was provisionally appointed chief clerk. There is still no appointed clerk head of department. A clerk and a clerk's delegate were delegated as the chief clerk of the department. Until January 2015, there were five clerks, a clerk having been appointed by royal decree of 11 September 2014 to the court of first instance in Hainaut. Two plugins were appointed and took office in January 2015. Since January 2015, there have been six or seven clerks on a 16-man frame. A call for candidates was published in March 2015 for three clerk positions. The selection is under way. The Act of 26 March 2014, which entered into force on 1 July 2014, amended article 573 of the Judicial Code and redistributed disputes between traders to commercial courts, regardless of the amount of disputes. In the past, this claim for less than €1,860 was a matter for the justices of the peace. In addition, the concept of a trader has been replaced by the concept of a business, which is much broader. The result was the explosion in the number of cases brought before the Small Litigation Chamber of the French-speaking Commercial Court in Brussels at some hearings of up to 300%. The high number of justices of the peace in the judicial district of Brussels partly explains this phenomenon. One of the measures was to close the registry in the afternoon in order to allow the clerks and the various members of the registry to type this mass of draft judgements without being disturbed at any time by telephone calls and persons at the counter. The Registrar-in-Chief of the ad interim service shall, moreover, himself ensure the permanence of urgent filings, including the filing of concluding observations on the last day, the filing of unilateral requests, etc. The delay has thus been partially controlled and the decisions are currently handed down within two to three months, whereas article 770 of the Judicial Code provides for a period of one month and the deliberations and handwritten drafts of the decisions most often take place on the very day of the hearing. Every week, new cases continue to be introduced in large numbers so that the number of draft decisions to be typed continues to be very high. The closing in the afternoon of the registry of the French-speaking commercial court in Brussels, which thus constituted an absolute necessity and a lesser evil in order to ensure the continuity of the service, was initially decided by order of the president of the French-speaking commercial court in Brussels. This order was confirmed by the Royal Decree of 19 March 2015. This closure of the registry was supplemented by various measures aimed at limiting the disadvantages in synergy with the French-speaking and Dutch-speaking orders of the Brussels Bar. The roles of the Introductory Chambers are thus communicated on the day before the hearing or on the morning of the hearing if the hearing is held in the afternoon at the secretariat of the Bar Associations to be placed on their secure website. For example, lawyers have access to the role without having to call the registry. This win-win measure prevents clerks and members of the registry from being disturbed and allows lawyers easier and faster access to the role of the introductory chambers. In conclusion, it can be said that the situation at the Registry of the French-speaking commercial court in Brussels is fundamentally different from the country's other registries and that the closure in the afternoon is justified until the framework is completed. The Royal Decree under attack amending the Royal Decree of 10 August 2001 laying down the days and hours of opening of the Courts and Courts Registry is maintained. My services are analysing the action for annulment brought by the Ordre des barreaus francophones et germanophone. All leads were examined. The most extreme solutions were considered, such as the non-encoding of the data contained in the forms deposited at the registry of legal persons in the system of the Banque-Carrefour des Entreprises. This task is not an essential task of a jurisdiction. Mr. Maingain, the proposal you are making is difficult because the hearings usually take place in the morning. Clerks are required to attend hearings that usually last more than three or four hours. Registrars and Registry staff must be present before 8 a.m. Prior to the hearings, various urgent duties still have to be performed. The hearings begin at 9 a.m. and 9.30 a.m. for presidential hearings. It should also be noted that exclusive jurisdiction for the whole of Belgium is conferred by the Judicial Code on the French-speaking commercial court in Brussels and on its president. As soon as the office of the Registry of the French-speaking Court of Commerce in Brussels is completed, the Registry will be opened again in the afternoon. This closure measure is a temporary crisis measure, which will not be extended beyond the strictly necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic208x.u37	Minister, thank you for your detailed explanation. I had warned, in his time, in particular during the debates on the sixth reform of the State – and I acknowledge that it was before you took office – that attention should be paid to the continuity of services. I remember the two Secretaries of State for Institutional Reforms, who had sworn to me that it would be respected, in the tone of "What dare you come with? How is it possible that you doubt it?" I told them, "You're going to have to deal with a staffing problem, you're going to see." And they said, "No, we've planned it." But nothing has been planned, once again. That you had to catch up with the past, I can hear it. I wouldn't want anyone to misunderstand my proposal. Of course, I am aware that the hearings in the commercial court are essentially held in the morning. A distinction should be made between the registry which provides the hearing and that which provides the permanence. These are two separate missions, even if the staff are identical. In the absolute one could ask to close the transplant in the morning when the hearings are held and open it in the afternoon when there are none. The truth is that the workforce has not been planned to ensure continuity of service. You talked about the strictly necessary time. I'll come back and ask you when you'll find out how to build up the workforce. Nevertheless, it is abnormal that the largest commercial court in the country should be the most penalized. Rebalancing, perhaps in a transitional phase, could have been determined between the numbers distributed in the different judicial districts. Maybe it was the right thing to do.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic208x.u38	Minister, I no longer need to explain Salduz legislation to you. We introduced it in Belgium a few years ago, in a period of current cases. The regulations provide that a suspect must be able to appeal to a lawyer at the time of the first hearing. The legislation came at the request of Europe, following the now famous Salduz judgment. In the meantime, Europe wishes to extend the right to a lawyer in an interrogation to any questioning, from the beginning to the conclusion of the trial. Belgium has initially protested at European level, but will now have to implement the measure. I asked you about this a few months ago. At that time, you informed us that the measure had been watered down. Only for persons deprived of their freedom, the government still needs to take proactive action. For the rest, a multidisciplinary working group would be set up to implement the Directive in Belgium. My questions are a consequence of your answer back then. What is the current state of implementation of the new European legislation? What progress is the multidisciplinary working group making? The current European directive does not concern the system of subsidised legal aid. Before that, another proposal was under negotiation. What is the current state of these negotiations? Is there any more clarity about this new measure?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic208x.u39	Minister, my question also relates to the Salduz decision. I am not going to repeat what has been said because you know this file well anyway. A recent order issued by the Chamber of Council in Brussels may complicate matters, since it ordered the release of a person on the ground that he could not have been assisted by his lawyer when he had been placed under an arrest warrant and that the fault could not be attributed to him or to his lawyer. This situation inevitably raises questions. First of all, how do you read this prescription? And in view of the logistical challenge of ensuring the effectiveness of the lawyer's presence, what space is left for the system to remain viable and not become paralysed or impassable?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic208x.u40	Mijnheer de voorzitter, mevrouw De Wit, as you recall, the Chamber of the Council of the Court of First Instance of Brussels was seized of the question of the absence, during the examination by the investigating judge, of the defendant's lawyer, even though he had not given up his assistance. The Court ruled, by order of 5 June, that this constituted an infringement of the rights enshrined in article 6 of the European Convention on Human Rights. It concluded that the conditions laid down by law for issuing an arrest warrant for the accused were not met and that the accused would be immediately released if he was not detained for another cause. In this case, the interrogation of the accused by the investigating judge took place on 2 June from 11:03 a.m. to 11:24 a.m., while the lawyer's summons referred to 11:45 a.m. The lawyer therefore presented himself after the end of the interrogation. I note that the accused had been assisted by a lawyer during his hearing by the police. On the appeal of the King's prosecutor, the Indictments Chamber reformed the order of the Chamber of Counsel and maintained the pre-trial detention, considering that "the only absence of the lawyer during the first police hearing or his interrogation of the accused by the investigating judge does not in itself imply a violation of the right to a fair trial. It cannot therefore now be inferred that the accused is already deprived of his right to a fair trial, that his interrogation by the investigating judge would be null or that he should be immediately released." Since the defence immediately appealed against this judgment, the case is pending before the Court of Cassation. As I will have the opportunity to recall in my reply to the question put by Mrs De Wit, a multidisciplinary working group is developing a draft definition of the legal and practical arrangements for the forthcoming transposition of the Salduz Directive. Mrs De Wit, as regards the state of transposition of Directive 2013/48 on the right of access to a lawyer, to be implemented on 27 November 2016, I can tell you that the multidisciplinary working group has indeed already met twice, in particular on 6 March and 28 April. At those meetings, the various options for bringing Belgian legislation into line with the provisions of the Directive were examined. The practical implications have been examined and a number of concrete slopes have been tested. A limited working group is now preparing a concrete proposal for a draft law, which will be submitted to Parliament in the autumn. I am working on the reform of the second-line legal assistance system. The texts implementing the coalition agreement are currently being prepared in consultation with, in particular, the barrister's orders. I expect the preparatory work to be completed before the summer recess. I intend to submit a draft law on this matter to you this year.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic208x.u41	Minister, I will have to reread a lot of your reply, because although I can speak very quickly, it seems that I am not listening very well. As far as your specific answers to my questions are concerned, I am pleased to hear that the working party has met and that progress has been made. We're going to have a very busy autumn, by the sound of it. I look forward to that. The result will be that our Salduz legislation will be adapted to the directive and that there will be a solution that is also workable for our system, which of course is not the system in which the Salduz case was created. Minister, I actually wanted to ask you to report regularly on what the working group is doing. However, if you want to come up with a draft law in the autumn, we probably already have the final report. That question will therefore lapse. I look forward to it. It's gonna be a fascinating fall.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic208x.u42	Mr President, Minister, the Council for Authorisations is a Flemish administrative court ruling on appeals against authorisation decisions, validation decisions and registration decisions. Claims to the Council for Authorisations shall not have suspensory effect and shall not have an adverse effect on civil proceedings. In the past, the situation was similar for the Council of State, but because there was too much delay in handling and the absence of an adverse effect caused undesirable effects for those seeking justice, Article 2244, § 1 of the Civil Code was amended in 2008. It has been pointed out to me that similar problems of delay arise in the Council of Authorisations Disputes despite the fact that it was set up precisely in order to arrive at a decision more quickly. Mr Minister, I believe that the rules on limitation, suspension or interruption are a federal competence. On the other hand, it is decreed that the Council for Authorisations is an independent Flemish administrative court. That's why I have a few questions. Can the federal legislature intervene on the issue of limitation periods? If yes, can an addition to Article 2244 of the Civil Code be considered by stating that an appeal to an administrative court set up by the Communities or the Regions has the same effect? If not, do you see other possibilities to intervene, or is this a completely Flemish matter?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic208x.u43	For those still present, I have to leave at 5:50 p.m. That's why I'm reading the answers to the questions a little faster. I do not do so so that you may not understand me, but because I can provide more answers in this way. So it's out of good will that I speak faster. As regards your first question, I can answer that the limitation period of civil proceedings, including the civil interruption of Article 2244, Paragraph 1 of the Civil Code, is indeed a matter for the federal government. It seems to me that the federal legislator could take into account procedures organised by the Communities and the Regions, in so far as it does not have a disproportionate impact on their policies. I think that the interesting suggestion for adaptation that you put forward in your second question is worth examining if the Communities and the Regions unanimously support such a question. It will be necessary to examine whether the rule will also have to be extended to other administrative courts. For the answer to your third question, please refer to my answers to the first and second questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic208x.u44	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Van Hecke's 5256 question was converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic208x.u45	Mr President, since I am still the only French-speaking member of Parliament for the arrondissement of Verviers present here, I must convey the concerns of the entire society of the said arrondissement of verviers. Minister, according to reports recently published in the local verviet press, Aubel, Stavelot, Malmédy and Herve could, following the rationalization of the justices of peace, lose their seat. Thus, there would be no more siege in Herve and it would be necessary to go to Verviers 1 (justice of peace which includes Herve, Dison, Olne, Pepinster and the part of Verviers north of Vesdre). Aubel's headquarters would be transferred to Limburg, where the cases related to Baelen, Plumbières, Thimister and Welkenraedt are also dealt with. Finally, for the justice of peace that operates at the headquarters of Stavelot, Malmédy and Spa (all south of the district, except Theux and Jalhay under Verviers 2), we would only retain the seat of Spa. This redistribution would force a Lierneux resident to move to Spa. As for the citizen of Plombières, he should go to Limburg, a sacred lengthening of distances and a real journey of the fighter for those who have to take public transport. As you know, the matters dealt with by the justice system directly concern the lives of our fellow citizens, with neighbourhood conflicts, unpaid rents, farm leases, the right to consumption (gas, electricity, etc.).). The persons to be protected (minors or persons under provisional administration) are also concerned. These citizens are numerous at the Ruyff Clinic (Welkenraedt) or Lierneux. Local authorities are also surprised that they are not officially alerted to the changes that are taking place. Some municipalities have made investments to accommodate litigants in good conditions. Cities that are expected to host a main headquarters do not have space available for additional staff. Minister, are the groups announced by the press actually envisaged by your administration, or even carried out by today's date? Who did you meet to establish this distribution within the district of Verviers? Do you intend to address this issue with the various local authorities that currently have a Justice of Peace? If this information is accurate, how do you still intend to ensure community justice for our fellow citizens? I would remind you that the Verviétois have already been heavily penalized during the reform of the judicial districts, with hearings now held in Liège or Huy.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic208x.u46	Like my colleague André Frédéric, I am concerned about the situation of justice of peace in my district. Mr Minister, your Government's desire to achieve savings in the justice system raises many questions in the cantons of Mons-Borinage, particularly among the judges concerned. In my region, the envisaged merger of the justice offices of peace is mainly concerned with the canton of Dour which would disappear to be refocused on Colfontaine, which means longer travels for its inhabitants and a justice that is more and more distant from the citizen. Although the Dourois office has been closed for a year for a heating failure, many people in Dour and surrounding areas still hope to see their seat reopen so that they do not have to go to Colfontaine. Today, what message can you send to them? Is there a willingness to rehabilitate the Dour office by remedying current technical problems? If not, in case of permanent closure, do you intend to make investments at the headquarters of Colfontaine to improve the working conditions of the staff and the reception of citizens? Do you confirm that there should be no change in the Boussu Peace Justice Office? Given the extent of the territory concerned, is it guaranteed for the inhabitants of the entity? Finally, in Mons, although the planned reorganization does not concern cantons 1 and 2, there are fears about the non-replacement of magistrates. If that were the case, not only would the workload increase, but there is a risk of creating a backlog that does not exist in the justice of peace. A situation which must be avoided at all costs. Therefore, minister, could you confirm that no reduction in staff is envisaged in the cantons of Mons? Is there any provision for the replacement of judges who are about to retire?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic208x.u47	I can only answer you in the same terms as I addressed to Mrs Thoron who had asked me about similar problems in the region and the province of Namur. I have already mentioned on several occasions the reform of the justice system in this committee. I said it was premature to give details. No formal decision has yet been taken. This exercise is not easy and must take into account many factors. However, I can tell you that, in choosing the location for the centralization of the double and triple cantons, the following elements will certainly be taken into account: the geographical location, the condition and the status of the building, the preference expressed by the justices of the peace concerned, taking into account the most convenient location and the workload. We hope to finalize soon, in terms of principles, the first phase, the implementation of which will still take months or years for some sites. Then comes a second phase which we hope to complete by autumn: the possibility of regrouping the cantons located in the urban areas bordering and/or treated by offices housed in the same building. This plan currently has no influence on personnel files. Replacements, including those of magistrates, follow the procedure currently applicable to the entire judiciary.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic208x.u48	Minister, you answer without answering. You tell us that the plan is subject to reflection and that it will end in the fall. We will look forward to it with great interest. You talked about the geographical situation. You have to bear in mind that in several rural areas, which may seem quite commonplace in terms of kilometric rapprochement, your project may become a real journey for the combatant for those who have to move from one point to another. Some regions have already suffered a great deal of damage for the proximity of public services. This is the case for the arrondissement of Verviers, which has been dispossessed of several public service tools. I would find it very damaging that he still has to face further restructuring aimed at the justices of the peace in this case.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic208x.u49	I can only agree with my colleague's considerations, as the minister does not answer the question. Minister, I invite you to think about the problem of public transport. It is very complicated to go to the peace justice of Colfontaine, in the heart of the Borinage: no train station, very rare bus. Come visit us, you will realize the route to follow for those who live within a radius of ten to fifteen kilometers. The accessibility of peace justice offices is a very important criterion for your reflection. I hope you will one day answer us much more concretely than today.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic208x.u50	Minister, at the plenary session of the Chamber on 4 June, I asked you what the consequences would be for our country of the corruption scandal at the FIFA World Football Association, in particular whether Belgium and the Royal Belgian Football Association could take steps with regard to possible damages, possibly together with the Netherlands, the candidate for the organisation of the next World Cup football. In my view, you kept to the level of your remarks that it was not yet clear whether Belgium is indeed a disadvantaged party in this respect. You did promise to discuss the matter with the Dutch government. That is strange, because on Thursday June 18th De Standaard named: Belgium demands millions from FIFA (if World Championships were sold). Remarkable is the significant head of the article, along with our new President, Mr De Keersmaecker, and the following statement:.The news was confirmed by the football association and government sources. Minister, I have some questions about your answer to my question in plenary and about the mentioned news from De Standaard. In the meantime, we are talking about EUR 4.5 million. Firstly, has anyone from the Dutch Government been interviewed in the meantime? If so, what is the outcome? Secondly, is the report in De Standaard on the confirmation by government sources correct? Thirdly, what further steps do you wish to take on this thorny issue? Fourthly, will you continue to align your attitude on this issue with that of your Dutch colleague?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic208x.u51	Mr President, Mr Janssens, I think it is appropriate to await the results of the Swiss research. Depending on this, Belgium may or may not submit a claim. If Belgium does so, it will probably do so together with the Netherlands. The investigation may take a while, possibly even years. There has not yet been an internal consultation with the Netherlands, as the claim is not yet under discussion. We will, of course, fully cooperate in all investigations into alleged corruption practices in FIFA, as requested in the resolution on corruption in FIFA, adopted by the European Parliament on 11 June.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic208x.u52	Minister, you will understand that our Dutch colleagues and I will continue to follow the dossier very closely.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic208x.u53	Questions Nos 5318 and 5319 by Mr Geerts are converted into written questions. Question No 5327 by Mrs Schepmans is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic208x.u54	Minister, I have been questioned by what is not a different fact for me. This is a fact of particular gravity. The acts of violence, intimidation and hatred on the part of the extreme right-wing group are legion. On 1 June, more than six activists of this movement really beat up in broad daylight a homeless person in the Place du Luxembourg in Ixelles, on the occasion of a counter-demonstration organized by this movement but also by the Flemish neo-Nazis of Vlaanderen identitair and the Autonome Nationalisten Vlaanderen, gathered to prevent the holding of the legal demonstration organized by a collective of undocumented immigrants. On 7 February, I asked your colleague the Minister of the Interior about the presence of Dutch extremist activists at the large national demonstration on 6 November. He told me that the mere fact of having relations with extremist circles could not justify the taking of administrative police measures preventing them from demonstrating. This time, it must be noted that the actions have gone beyond words. It therefore seems to me that strong measures are needed. Some measures are the responsibility of the administrative police authorities. It is true that it is a tradition for individuals of this nauseous ideology to be subject to enhanced surveillance when they are forced to organize a counter-demonstration. In relation to the situation referred to above, could you please let me know, Minister, if you confirm the information relayed by the media that five of the six alleged perpetrators of the attack had to appear at the end of June? I haven't seen a trace in the press. Has the sixth author been identified? What is the prosecutor's policy with regard to the prosecution of such acts, especially since they are committed with an unquestionable will of discrimination and racism? Are there any statistics per judicial district? Would there have been an increase in acts of violence against homeless persons?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic208x.u55	Mr President, Mr Maingain, on the facts, I can only confirm what I answered last Wednesday in this committee to a question by Mr Thiébaut on the same subject. On the basis of information provided by the Public Prosecutor's Office, five of the six persons involved in the attack were made available to the Public Prosecutor's Office on 2 June. They were heard by him and then released. They will probably be summoned to the correctional court during the month of September. The six persons involved are prosecuted for assault and battery with incapacity for work and for rebellion and assault on two of them. With regard to the prosecution policy of prosecutors, it goes without saying that prosecutors, as always when they are notified of offences, especially serious offences like this, initiate information and, where appropriate, seize an investigating judge, in particular if an arrest warrant seems appropriate. In the present case, the reaction has not been delayed since the suspects were notified of their very next direct summons to the court, the evidence apparently sufficient for the prosecutor to decide to bring the case before a correctional court. Finally, with regard to statistics on acts of violence against homeless people, the College of Prosecutors General cannot provide statistics on oral parliamentary questions, given the short response time, provided that such statistics can be compiled.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic208x.u56	I thank the Minister for his response and for his vigilance.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic208x.u57	Mr President, first of all, I apologize for having somewhat disrupted the order of business, but I was retained in another committee. Minister, the Act of 25 February 2003 created the function of security officer in order to discharge local police as much as possible from the transfer of detainees to the courthouses. You must know that, in different police areas, the transfer of detainees is too often still involving police officers from these areas. As a result, a great deal of police zone delivery days are devoted to the transfer of detainees, although this should no longer be the case. However, local police officers continue to carry out these missions at the expense of their own missions. The number of overtime hours worked by staff is very large and also represents a significant cost to the municipalities. The presence of security officers is therefore of paramount importance for the various courts, particularly those in whose territory a prison is located. It is my responsibility that, for the courts of Arlon and Marche, the number of effective security officers is not sufficient. Minister, what is the overall theoretical framework of the security corps for our country as a whole? Is it complete? If not, what areas are understaffed? In particular, is the Luxembourg area being taken over? How many security officers are planned for Arlon and Marche? Is the framework complete? What is the recruitment procedure for these security officers?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic208x.u58	Mrs Poncelet, there is no comprehensive theoretical framework for the security corps. In recent years, the federal public service has been working with personnel envelopes. The Security Corps currently has 407 security officers. They work in support of police services, both at the local and federal level. At present, there are insufficient staff to replace all police officers assigned to the transfer of detainees and to the police of courts and tribunals. No estimate of the number of officers required to replace police officers has yet been made. However, with my colleague from the Interior, I have started a general reflection on the role of each side. We are thus working on the basis of the government agreement, which provides that the missions of the police and the justice security corps will be reviewed in order to find the most pragmatic and effective solution. The current number of agents is six for Arlon and twenty for March. In line with the provincial organization of the security corps, it is important to note that March agents are sometimes operational in Arlon. Security officers are recruited by the Selor on the basis of two tests: a written, general examination and an oral examination, targeted at the function. After forty-six days of training, they took up their duties in Brussels. Then, on the basis of an opening of posts, they can be transferred to other units. In order to attract candidates from more remote geographical areas of Brussels, in particular Luxembourg, the call for selor candidates explicitly takes up the possibilities of transferring to these areas.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic208x.u59	Mr President, I thank the Minister for his answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic208x.u60	Mr Minister, you have been negotiating with the trade unions for several months on the protocol agreement 351 and the introduction of guaranteed services, as included in the government agreement. Protocol 351 of April 2010 within the Justice Sectoral Committee deals with the mutual commitments of the FPS Justice, the Directorate-General for EPI and the representative government trade unions of the staff of the external services of the penitentiary institutions in connection with the strengthening of social dialogue and conflict management in the prison system. The intention of the protocol agreement, still by Minister De Clerck, was to prevent strikes. It's gonna be okay. At a question from me from 2011, your predecessor indicated that an evaluation was needed and that the agreement had to be revised. There were, after all, too few enforceable levers in order to avoid a social conflict in all circumstances or to achieve a result. After all, social dialogue must always be able to take precedence over a strike. That evaluation was launched in 2012. I can't tell you how many times I've told you about it. As far as I'm concerned, she lasted endlessly; she shifted from summer to summer. We are now a summer away, but I have read in the media that an agreement has been reached on this with the trade unions. That's not unimportant. In the light of the protocol agreement and the letter of formal notice by the European Committee for the Prevention of Torture and Human Dishonorable Treatment, the government has undertaken to introduce a guarantee of service in the prison system. We have already been sentenced to pay damages several times. The guarantee of services must safeguard the basic rights of the detainees, that is clear. The social partners were also involved in defining the modalities of the guaranteed service provision. That's all literally in the coalition agreement. The trade unions seem to be discontented about this. For some trade unions, even the idea of a guaranteed service in itself would be unnegotiable, with the addition that actions are not excluded. That is what I read in Het Nieuwsblad under the title 'Folk Unions Guardians Evil at Minister Koen Geens'. I'm guessing you read that, too. Has an agreement actually been reached with the trade unions on the protocol agreement 351? If so, what is the content of the agreement? In what areas will the agreement be updated? Why the long period between the announcement of the evaluation and the final agreement? Or perhaps it was merely claimed that there would be an evaluation and we can guess what summer it is actually about, what I am beginning to fear. I'll find out from you later. More importantly, how's it going? What is the state of play with regard to consultation on the modalities of guaranteed service provision? Is it true that some unions don't even want to sit around the table? Has any concrete action been announced against the government's legitimate intention? What action will you take to get the trade unions around the table? If actions are not excluded, this can also come from two sides.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic208x.u61	Mrs De Wit's question was so complete that I will only partially translate, in summary form, what she has just said. She took a look at the situation. I'm just going to join the questions that have just been asked.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic208x.u62	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the social dialogue takes place in seven working groups. A monthly sector committee is organized, which provides an overview of the working groups. The seven working groups are: 1. Backpack and absenteeism. 2. Pre-pension leave. 3. Starting with the evaluation of Protocol 351, discussion of the guaranteed service. 4. Rationalisation and modernisation of working methods and in particular working methods, modernisation of buildings, fight against overcrowding, including Tilburg, differentiation between the various prisons. 5. Training, including basic training - proposal for an additional three to six months. 6. Fixed-term contracts. 7. Security Corps. Each topic has already been discussed. Some working groups have already completed their work, particularly on training and fixed-term contracts. For pre-pension leave and the security corps, political choices still have to be made. From the beginning, the unions announced that they wanted an agreement on the whole. As a result, there has not yet been a separate agreement in each working group, but progress is being made in each of them. The evaluation of Protocol 351 was finalized with the SPF Employment Conciliator. The discussion on the guaranteed service has begun. The review of Protocol 351 continued with the mediation of a FOD WASO mediator after the start of the Working Group at the end of 2014. On 13 May 2015, the evaluation was concluded, setting out a number of elements in an agreement between the parties. They should be formalised by Sector Committee III after testing with the grassroots. The elements concern, inter alia, the general functioning of the social dialogue in Protocol 351. The Parties reaffirm the importance of Protocol 351 and continue to support its philosophy. They reaffirm the importance of a high-quality social dialogue in order to achieve a stable social peace. The parties wish to continue their efforts to find negotiated solutions to structural problems in the prison system. It also concerns a refinement of the preliminary procedure. That is the procedure for creating a problem in the start-up of discussions and negotiations, before a real strike is possible. That procedure can only cause a strike to break out after 40 days. It also includes a number of adjustments to the modalities of conflict management and the elaboration of a conflict management and incident management procedure, which will be annexed to Protocol 351. Protocol 351 was then adapted for these elements and some improvements were proposed to trade unions. Due to the minor improvements, the text has not yet been signed by the trade unions. I hope to get the signature on a next sector committee. In the meantime, the working party was presented with the proposal that I should like to achieve a guaranteed service in the penitentiary establishments. These points were also raised during the conciliation on the review of the Protocol: the commitment of trade unions to allow workers to work at times of trade union action and strikes in the penitentiary establishment where they usually work. The government is committed to ensuring that this will always be done in compliance with the labour regulations, in particular with regard to working time. In this way, we are already trying to achieve a guaranteed service, as requested in the coalition agreement, as is also stipulated in the basic law and as the CPT requires. Should that not be possible with only those willing to work, who are members of staff who are on the job at those times and who work normally, I made the proposal to set up a watchkeeping system, defining in advance the key positions necessary for a guaranteed service that meets the requirements of the CPT and thus allowing staff to be called upon to occupy those positions. I would like to work on this subject on a voluntary basis and with an allowance for the inconvenience of staying available. When that proposal came forward, the trade unions did indeed leave the negotiating table and informed me that they wanted to go back to conciliation on that subject through the social mediator of the FOD WASO. We are now in the start-up phase of this mediation. The discussions are not easy, but I see progress and a willingness to work together to find solutions to the problems facing the prison world.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic208x.u63	Minister, I will afford to read your answer in peace and calm. If I have any questions, you'll find out. Thank you for the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic208x.u64	Mr Minister, you know that the Criminal Code allows for the principle of freedom of evidence, provided that such evidence is of course based on legal grounds and is not farfetched. During a criminal trial, hypnosis is sometimes used, even though some psychiatrists consider hypnosis not necessarily the guarantee of the expression of the truth. The French Court of Cassation has decided to exclude as evidence obtained under hypnosis statements which would be made in particular in relation to the rights of the defence. Minister, what is the situation in our country? Can you inform us, if necessary in writing, of the average number of hypnosis per year in Belgium in the course of a judicial trial? Where hearings are organised under hypnosis, what specific rules do they regulate this practice? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic208x.u65	Mr President, the College of Attorneys General cannot provide statistics on oral parliamentary questions, given the short response time. However, the College was able to provide me with the following information. There is a law of 30 May 1892 on hypnotism, but it punishes performances and abuses in this area and not the admissibility of hypnotic hearings. Reference should therefore be made to the general principles applicable to hearings, distinguishing between suspects and witnesses. For suspects, the modalities of a particular hearing technique must be compatible with the rights of the defence, in particular the right to silence and the principle of fair investigation. The right to silence implies that a suspect cannot be compelled to participate in his or her conviction and cannot be pressured to make statements, for example by stating that the trial judge could interpret a refusal as a presumption of guilt. Such pressure would be contrary to article 62 of the Code of Ethics of the Police Service, as set out in the Royal Decree of 10 May 2006. Moreover, one might wonder whether such a practice would be compatible with human dignity. It was considered that this principle prohibited an accused person from injecting a truth serum (penthotal). On the other hand, the Court of Cassation only accepts the use of a lie detector or polygraph if the suspect voluntarily cooperates and if he can terminate the test at any time. But the suspect under hypnosis no longer having control of his conscience, he is no longer able to exercise this right. The French Court of Cassation has therefore already ruled that such confessions are inadmissible and there is no reason to believe that they would be otherwise in Belgium. Witnesses, for their part, have an obligation to speak when they take an oath before a judge, keeping a right to silence only when their statements could incriminate them. But this obligation does not relate to hypnosis. Above all, the trial judge is not bound in any way by the results of such techniques which do not enjoy any particular evidentiary force, even if the suspect or witness has made a confession under a freely accepted hypnosis. The general rules on the admissibility of evidence apply here, and in particular the principle of freedom of evidence in criminal matters, provided that it is neither illegal nor farfetched. Given the lack of certainty as to the reliability of hypnosis, this is in practice a means of reorienting the investigation rather than a means of proof. The need for legislation in this area is therefore not obvious. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic208x.u66	Thank you, Minister. This clarifies this problem a little.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic208x.u67	Mr President, Minister, in the Belgian Official Journal of 29 May 2015, second edition, on page 30 562, three vacancies appeared for counsel at the Court of Cassation. The vacancies were divided into two vacancies for counsellors with a French-language diploma and one for counsellors with a Dutch-language diploma. However, on 1 June 2015 a correction was published in the Belgian Official Journal on page 30 761. The vacancies at the Court of Cassatie were apparently incorrect and the Erratum shows that the three vacancies are for counsellors only with a French-language diploma. There is therefore no vacancy for a councillor with a Dutch diploma. I understand that three French-speaking counsellors are effectively retiring, but I also know that one Dutch-speaking counselor will retire. Minister, why are the three French-speaking council members retiring? So when should they be replaced? Why wasn't a Dutch-language vacancy published, given the imminent pension of the Dutch-speaking councillor? When will this publication take place? What is the cause of the withdrawal of the Dutch-language vacancy in favour of an additional French-language vacancy? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic208x.u68	Ms Van Vaerenbergh, the draft publication for the vacant place of counsel in the Court of Cassation was drawn up in the order of departure of some counsellors in the court concerned. However, by letter of 20 April 2015, the first President of the Court of Cassation and the Attorney General of the Court of Appeal requested that priority be given to the publication of the seats for three French-speaking counsellors. This request was reconfirmed by the first President on 28 May 2015 when he took note of this draft publication. In an exchange of letters, the first President and the Attorney General confirm the needs and priorities of the Court of Cassation. They refer in particular to respect for linguistic parity, the obligation to have at least one German-speaking Member and, finally, to have at least five members from labour courts and courts. The erratum notice followed the priorities of the Court of Cassation and stated that one of the candidates should be able to submit the legal requirement of experience within a labour court or court. In reply to your other questions on the order of departure: Mr Simon, French speaking, departure for retirement from 31 December 2014 evening; Mr Van Hoogenbemt, Dutch speaking, departure for retirement from 31 August 2015 evening; Mr Steffens, French speaking, departure for retirement from 31 December 2015 evening; Mr Close, French speaking, departure for retirement from 31 March 2016 evening. Following these rooms, a successor should be found. In the next round, within the budgetary resources available and the Court's priorities, the remaining Councillor's seat in the Court of Cassation will also be vacant.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic208x.u69	Minister, I will also check the answer. As you know, we also get the booklet with the annual report of the Court of Cassation every year. This shows that there were 3 147 cases dealt with in 2014 and 3 159 new cases. So there have been about as many cases treated as new ones. As you yourself say, the Court of Cassatie is still a joint body. However, that parity is not reflected in the number of cases. Last year, for example, there were 1 837 new Dutch-language issues. That is almost 60% of all new cases, compared with about 40% of new French-speaking cases. The parity actually plays to the disadvantage of the Dutch speakers. If the Dutch speakers are now also disadvantaged in the appointments, this is of course even more detrimental to Dutch-speaking matters. I just wanted to point out this problem, but I will read the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic208x.u70	Minister, the start of work on the construction of a new courthouse in Namur is again postponed. Already in March 2014, the Council of Ministers approved the budget for the construction of the new building. But the beginning of the project is postponed until this autumn because of the reorganization of the justice system. A few weeks ago, a second postponement was announced because of the new measures you took at the end of March to organize the courts. In Namur province, all criminal cases would be concentrated in Namur. Which means that the officials who were to stay in Dinant will have to join Namur. The prison security corps will always settle well in Namur but the services at the Régie will have to settle elsewhere, but where? Again, the plans for the new building need to be reviewed. The first brick is expected to be laid in spring 2016. But this case is not at the end of his sentence. After the federal reorganizations, it is Europe's turn to put sticks in the wheels of Namur's new courthouse. The financing system put in place at the time was no longer to the taste of Europe, which had tightened its accounting standards. The estimated budget is 80 to 100 million euros. For not having to pay the sum, the previous federal government had decided to have a private developer build and then rent the building to the state for 25 years. This would cost the State no longer 80 to 100 million but 150 million euros. Europe is no longer in agreement. The financial green light is therefore no longer valid. Minister, can you assure me that the first stones will be laid in the spring of 2016 or that once again, we have to expect an umpteenth postponement? What's the status of this case? What will be the solution for services to the Régie? Where are they going to have to settle? What about funding? If Europe refuses the system set up at the time, who will finance the project and how? What about Dinant's court, which also needs to be refreshed?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic208x.u71	I refer to my previous answer to the questions concerning the courthouses, and more specifically the courthouse in Namur. In general, I would like to point out that the exercise will be carried out with regard to judicial buildings, and I refer to the Justice Plan, where I explain that the large number of judicial buildings must be subject to a thorough rationalization exercise, which should ultimately lead to a significant reduction in the number of courtrooms, and to more centralized management. An important chapter of the announced master plan will also deal with security. The Justice Plan states that this master plan will be available by the end of the year. This exercise is not an easy task. Many factors and actors must be taken into account. We will now begin this task, but it is still too early to answer more detailed questions. Dinant and Namur projects will be treated among others. Your questions regarding the financing and implementation of the services of the Régie des Bâtiments should be asked to my colleague responsible for the Régie des Bâtiments.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic208x.u72	I will therefore read the previous reports. Nevertheless, I have not received many answers to my questions. Will there be a courthouse in Namur? Can the work start next year or is it utopian? We don't know. Of which act.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic208x.u73	I'm pretty positive. You see my body language. But I don't commit.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic208x.u74	Of which act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic208x.u75	Mr President, Minister, the connection of the municipalities to the Central Criminal Register is about to enter a final phase. It is a good thing that a genuine Central Criminal Register is created and that the municipal criminal register is abolished. In this connection, the municipalities are of course your main partners. Their cooperation is essential and consultation with them is necessary. It turns out that this has also happened, but VVSG, VLAVABBS, GAPEC, VSGB and UVCW, as they enter the final phase, still create a number of inconveniences to which they will not receive a response or insufficient response from your policy cell. At least that's the information that gets to me. These are mainly practical points that are important to them. They believe that these are decisive for a good start-up of the project. Their aim is to provide a service to citizens who at least match the current level, if not improve it. Their fear is that if this is not the case, the municipalities will be the first contact point to receive the complaints, while they cannot do anything about it. Let me just sum up the problems on a point-by-point basis: the design of a legal basis for the registration of friendly settlements in the Central Criminal Register and also the provision of information bulletins by the Central Criminal Register. Currently, the municipalities still register them in the municipal criminal register, but they do not want to do so anymore, since they believe that this is not a legal basis. Do you consider it possible to provide a legal basis for the registration of friendly settlements in the Central Criminal Register? If not, why not? What objections do you see? Why can we not respond to the demands of these municipalities? Secondly, the provision of direct access for the Federal Public Service Labour, Labour and Social Consultation with a view to issuing honorary signs. In this way, an unnecessary intermediary can be eliminated. This is therefore an administrative simplification. How can it be practically organized? Are there any legal objections? On what time is that feasible? As regards the decay of steering, this is kept in the municipal criminal record but not in the driving licence register of the Federal Public Service Mobility. The municipalities ask you to consult with this administration in order to provide a link based on the national register number. From the point of view of the database, it would not be logical to keep data twice. There must therefore be a link so that the data from the Mercury database can be supplemented by the data from the Central Criminal Register. What is your position on this matter? The contents of the Central Criminal Register are managed by the services of the Central Criminal Register. However, the municipality which has no responsibility for the content will still have to sign and stamp the document. The municipalities do not understand the usefulness of a stamp, since they no longer know this form requirement and ask whether the document can be signed electronically. Why is this not possible? The municipalities state that it should be possible for citizens to make their application directly to the Central Criminal Register, for example when they need that certificate for their employer. The citizen can authenticate with his electronic identity card. In this way an intermediate step is eliminated. This too is therefore an administrative simplification. Is this piste under investigation? What possibilities are there? Finally, the municipalities ask for participation to propose additional municipalities to be involved in the roll-out of this project. Can we do that?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic208x.u76	Mr President, Mrs Van Vaerenbergh, I explained in the ICT strategy that a good information policy, supported by an adapted ICT approach, is a central element in my approach to a 21st century judicial organisation. The Central Criminal Register is, of course, a leading authentic source. Since its creation, a long process of computerisation has taken place, which is too long. I find it difficult to accept that local criminal records must continue to exist today with the additional administrative burden on the municipalities, but also on the judiciary itself. I have therefore asked for a review of the project approach with a double objective in mind. Firstly, to complete the computerisation of the criminal record as quickly as possible within its original scope and to register the sentences pronounced, so that municipal criminal records can be definitively abolished with a significant reduction in the workload for the municipalities, but also for the judiciary itself. Secondly, an analysis of the extension of the scope of this authentic source, so that it can still play an important information role. I expect that analysis in a few weeks. If the assumptions examined prove realistic, local criminal records will be phased out faster than planned and a greater reduction in workload will be achieved. The expectations of the municipalities, which are listed by you and of course I am aware of, will then be met. As soon as I have the results of the analysis, I will discuss them with the municipalities in the steering committee. I will also come back to the committee here, as there will be a lot of legal adjustments needed to achieve this more modern and more extensive authentic source. So this issue is being continued.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic208x.u77	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. We are of course in favour of moving as quickly as possible, but preferably in a way that meets the concerns on the ground. We look forward to that analysis and to your further steps in this dossier.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic208x.u78	Questions Nos 5559 and 5560 by Mrs Goedele Uyttersprot are transformed into written questions.
