ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic291x.u1	Madam President, Madam Minister, since its new plan, SNCB has offered twice as many trains from Silly to Brussels. This is obviously excellent news for commuters, but it has posed a major problem in the parking of vehicles since mid-September. Thus, the parking lot of the station, yet spacious, is saturation and users are forced to leave their car a little anywhere, sometimes causing great embarrassment. The main cause is that commuters from nearby cities prefer to take the train to Silly for several reasons. In Lessinnes, there are fewer trains in the direction of Brussels and the journey time has been extended with the new plan. But it is also because of the fact that the surrounding car parks have just become paid or are in the process of being paid, as is the case in Braine-le-Comte and Soignies. This is how the people of Ath and Enghien decide to take the train from Silly. It would appear that SNCB is currently negotiating with a farmer to buy back land that could contain an additional 164 places. I should like to remind you that my question was dated 6 October. Minister, my questions are as follows. I have no doubt that there is an overall plan to manage SNCB car parks in the medium and long term. It is essential that every commuter be able to take the train in good conditions, as close as possible to his or her home. Could you explain what will be done as a whole in the coming years, and more particularly for the municipalities mentioned? Is it planned to make Silly's car park a paid car park? Do you think that the 164 additional places on the project will be sufficient to meet the demand?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic291x.u2	Mr Flahaux, SNCB is not in favour of free parking for commuters and train users. Indeed, in 2005 she experienced a pilot project by making the car parks of the twelve stations of the network free of charge. At the end of 2006, the evaluation of this project revealed that some commuters had abandoned walking, cycling or bus to use the car in order to get to the station. Free parking also drained commuter vehicles that parked without paying until then around the stations. The measure has therefore led to a considerable increase in demand for sites without attracting new travellers. Financially, the project has resulted in loss of operating income and has required significant investments to expand or create existing car parks to meet growing demand for locations. As a result of this experience, SNCB has developed a new strategy to operate station parking. I have already mentioned this in detail in previous replies, in particular to Written Question No 316 which I therefore invite you to consult. In addition, making car parks non-paying is a form of discrimination to the detriment of users of other means of public transport who have to pay for their journey by bus or tram to the station. With regard to the car parks of the Enghien station, a first phase of extension of the sites located opposite the tracks was carried out in 2013 and 2014. These improvements resulted in the creation of sixty-seven places. The SNCB is currently studying a second phase of extension covering more or less one hundred and twenty additional places. Without waiting for this one, it is planned to equip the two car parks of the station with access controls. For the Ath station, the car park is not fully owned by the SNCB. As for the central road, it is public. It is therefore impossible to set up access controls there. With regard to the extension of the car park at Silly station, this area is currently saturated and poses enormous problems in terms of bus traffic. A new ground marking will be designed and will result in the loss of locations. SNCB is negotiating a solution with the municipality to compensate for this loss. Not meeting any of the four criteria for establishing access controls, the car park at Silly Station will not be one of those that should be equipped in the short term. However, a reflection is under way within the SNCB in view of the specificities of this station. The 164 additional places referred to in the question will not be sufficient and will contribute to the congestion of the crossroads of the Four Seasons towards the N7. The only solution in the medium term is to integrate a new car park into the municipality's ZAC project and to enjoy the future road that will be connected to the N7 thanks to a roundabout to be created by the SPW. Finally, in the case of Mouscron, as was presented by the SNCB to the elected representatives of the Hainaut on 10 March 2014 and exhibited at a meeting of my cabinet on 28 May 2015, to which the elected representatives of the Picardy Wallonia were invited, the journey time Mouscron-Brussels-Central increased by 12 minutes: 7 minutes for the stops of Froyennes, Silly and Hal, 4 minutes for the works of Leuze and Hal and 1 minute of additional stop in Brussels-Midi. At the same time, additional trains were organized live to Charleroi and Namur during peak hours. The Mouscron station was served by two trains every hour until 2009. In December 2009, a second relationship to Brussels was added at the start of Mouscron. There were then two relations towards Brussels and one towards Antwerp-ville. Five years after the development of this offer, SNCB found that there had been no expected increase in traffic and that it could not maintain three trains per hour in relation to the traffic of each of these trains. As part of the implementation of the new transport plan in December 2014, SNCB has therefore restored the initial level of supply that is more in line with the region's mobility demand. With regard to parking, since 2013, a working group has been established between the City of Mouscron, the Société régionale Wallonne du Transport (SRWT), the TECs, the SPW and the SNCB to study a plan for the overall redevelopment of the surroundings of the Mouscron station. This overall redevelopment could result in the loss of approximately 200 parking spaces, 135 of which are on municipal roads. SNCB has already built a 70-seat extension to its passenger car park, but the balance cannot be offset immediately. In this context, SNCB has taken the decision to install access control equipment in order to guarantee a parking space for rail users. Finally, SNCB wishes to point out that paid car parks do not lead to loss of commuters and the overall use of car parks with access controls is constantly increasing. For those who have no choice but to come by car to the station, having a guaranteed location thanks to access controls is a service more than appreciated by customers. The rates are set at around EUR 1.50 per day for a subscriber, which are tax deductible or refundable by the employer. It is important to continue to invest in new car parks in consultation with the public authorities. To this end, these files will be reviewed as part of the discussions on the next management contract within the investment unit.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic291x.u3	Minister, thank you for your extremely comprehensive answer. You went beyond my question by answering others as well. Since I am very interested in the whole of Hainaut, I am particularly pleased with the answer given. I confirm that, on the basis of the experience of the stations of Braine-le-Comte and Soignies, where car parks have become paying, far from reducing the demand in terms of passengers, having guaranteed places means that the use of the train is even more intensive. In Braine-le-Comte, you are in the process of making 100 additional seats that will temporarily satisfy part of the demand. As far as Silly is concerned, I share with you the fact that this is a very special situation. The right reasoning is to work with the municipal administration of Silly and the mayor Christian Leclercq.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic291x.u4	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the No Question! movement, On 13 October, representing the residents of Brussels, presented an alternative plan aimed at drastically reducing the number of people flying by planes, both in Brussels and in its periphery. According to this fairly representative association, these proposals would reduce the number of people flying by 72 per cent, from one million today to 280,000 in the future. The proposed solutions are as follows: the gradual termination of night flights between 11 p.m. and 6 a.m., the elimination of the Canal route and the Ring route, and the displacement of runway 25L from 1.8 km to the east. Undoubtedly, the debate on the (sometimes temporary) movement of the air routes which is now rejailing will provoke very contrasting reactions within the various associations of residents, depending on the territories they defend. Therefore, my question will focus on the movement of Runway 25L and the prohibition of night flights. I had already asked you about the possibility of moving runway 25L to the east on January 28, 2015, suggesting that you take the opportunity of the work done at the time to study its feasibility. This had not aroused any interest on your part. However, this runway seemed interesting, although it was not without its drawbacks, due in particular to the fact that it would involve a concentration of take-offs over Stererebeek, the town of Zaventem, the seat of our national airport. With regard to the ban on night flights, I would remind you that all associations of residents, wherever they may be, have agreed on this claim. The government agreement explicitly provides for the analysis of night activities at the airport. I asked you about this on July 1 and in October, but I did not get a precise answer about your plans on this subject. However, this is the only solution that can be easily implemented. And there is an urgent need, given the deadline of 13 June 2016 and the implementation of the European "scelerate" regulation that will bind your feet and fists. Since this summer, you have granted traffic rights to Ethiopian Airlines and it has been reported that DHL is planning a €114 million investment in a new sorting centre. So things are not going in the right direction. I therefore propose that you clarify your point of view. Minister, how do you welcome the proposals of the No Question movement!- Is that what you're saying? Do you intend to entrust your administration with a technical analysis of the latter, in particular of the possible movement of runway 25L (its feasibility, cost and consequences in terms of traffic displacement)? On the basis of the experiences of other airports, such as Liège, is a policy of expropriation or compensation for residents in the long run possible? Do you intend to put a stop to the development of freight activity at Brussels Airport, knowing that Brussels Airport is a very high demander of night flights? Will you gradually implement a limitation of nighttime activities, aiming at the eventual introduction of the environmental night? Finally, are you in favour of installing an ILS system on track 07?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic291x.u5	Mr Hellings, just as I did with the proposals of the other associations, I became aware of those of the collective No Question!. The reflections that you mention are all elements that I take into account in developing a structural solution. As I said before, the strategic vision will be objective. Most of these solutions will be the subject of a safety, capacity and impact study in terms of population density. Other analyses could be added. The structural solution must be based on three fundamental elements. Firstly, respect for the inhabitants of the various areas of Brussels, Flemish Brabants and Walloons. Secondly, the formulation of responses aimed at all residents in compliance with the balanced approach advocated by the European Regulation, namely – in chronological order – the reduction of noise at source, land planning in urban planning rules, spatial planning and soundproofing measures (the latter being rather regional in scope), technical procedures and, lastly, operational restrictions. Thirdly, compliance with the government agreement, which includes that of preferential runways and wind standards, a law on flight procedures, an independent authority on noise pollution. I maintain my willingness to finalize structural solutions in terms of reducing environmental nuisances, but I also ask for intellectual honesty and not to mix everything together. In the case of DHL, it is a sorting centre without involvement on night flights. The same was true for Ethiopian Airlines flights – that is, no additional flights were allowed during the night. I would like to point out that she left Brussels and abandoned some of her activities in Liège. I would also like to recall that there is a ceiling of 16,000 night flights guaranteed by legislation, namely the Ministerial Order of 3 May 2004, amended on 21 January 2009 and entered into force on 6 February 2009. This ceiling is now almost reached and I do not intend to increase it. The subject of night flights is part of my reflection and I assure you that it will be the subject of a detailed and more objective analysis so that good decisions can be made with knowledge of the matter. I do not want to limit myself to simple and demagogic slogans such as those I hear too often, without any verified economic, technical and environmental reality. The text on the creation of the independent authority for noise pollution is well advanced. Its independence is essential. Its contours, form and missions will be proposed together with structural solutions, in order to remain consistent. You're also talking about the lengthening of runway 25L. This longer-term measure is part of my thinking, like technological measures, in order to improve safety significantly. I recall that safety remains my number one priority, regardless of the mode of transport. However, I understand that the vote in the Brussels Parliament did not give priority to the extension of runway 25L. Finally, the government agreement mentions a cooperation agreement to be concluded with the Brussels Region on noise standards. I will consult with my Brussels counterpart on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic291x.u6	You did not answer the question about installing the ILS system on Runway 07.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic291x.u7	We're thinking about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic291x.u8	On the subject of freight, you do not close the door to the possibility that it will develop at the Brussels-National airport.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic291x.u9	I didn't say that. I said you have to stay intellectually honest. This is a sorting activity. There's no extra flight.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic291x.u10	It's freight.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic291x.u11	On February 3, we will visit DHL, for your information.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic291x.u12	DHL, it's a freight business. And there is no worse place to develop a freight business, knowing, as you said, that at no time in the history of this case, a measure advocated by the balanced approach, which you mentioned, has been applied. Whether they are expropriations, isolations, soundproofings, or the construction ban, none of these measures have been applied in this case. I feel that you want to open the parachute of the balanced approach to prevent other measures such as the ban on night flights. But the fact is that today none of these measures, which must be taken at regional level, have yet been taken. This does not prevent us from being able to take measures such as the ban on night flights, for which an agreement exists between all associations. Developing an airport, a cargo hub in the immediate vicinity of a capital with more than a million inhabitants, makes no sense in the 21st century. Taking the example of the main DHL hub in Great Britain, it is located in the East Midlands, 140 km north of London. In Germany, the DHL base in Leipzig/Halle and Frankfurt-Hahn are 120 km from Berlin and 100 km from Frankfurt respectively. There is no place for freight at Brussels Airport, if only marginally.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic291x.u13	This question is almost two months old. After 15 months of work, the international investigation coordinated by the Netherlands to examine the circumstances of Malaysian Airlines flight MH17 crash on 17 July 2014 finally reached its conclusion on 13 October 2014. The main one is that the Boeing 777 was shot down by a BUK anti-aircraft missile, a Russian-made weapon. But the investigators also concluded that Kiev should have closed this part of its airspace above the conflict areas and informed the airlines concerned. Madam Minister, can you please indicate which of the main existing no-fly zones are currently facing flights from and to Belgian airports? At the international level, what are the zones, which are the air areas that civilian aircraft landing or taking off in Belgium should avoid, because of armed conflicts and risks to civilian aircraft? Who decides? Does Belgium submit its views to ICAO or IATA for example? How does our country participate in this type of decision? It is clear from the Ukrainian case that the investigators consider that in view of the risks, this country should have closed this part of its airspace, but did not. In this case, could the Belgian authorities themselves have taken the initiative and forced flights passing through airports in Belgium to bypass the disputed area, regardless of clear instructions from the local authorities? What kind of supervision is carried out by the Belgian authorities on these issues? How do the relevant information get to us? At what rate are they updated? How are airlines and, where appropriate, passengers informed at Belgian level? How do we monitor the proper compliance with these bans on overflights by civil aircraft passing through Belgian airports? What is the nature of European coordination on this subject?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic291x.u14	Madam Minister, my questions are similar to those of our colleague Dallemagne, since since the MH17 flight we have had the tragedy of the Russian flight over Egypt, an area which has been flying almost 150 times a week by European airlines. If it is the responsibility of the country to fly over its airspace, international bodies such as ICAO, Eurocontrol or EASA may also issue key recommendations to airlines, which should be made on the basis of reliable and up-to-date information. Considering the numerous ongoing conflicts, notably in Ukraine, Afghanistan, Iraq, Pakistan, Sudan, Yemen, Syria – where we now see Russian submarines firing missiles – I would like you to inform us about the following: what guidelines currently govern the overflight of the countries mentioned for Belgian and European companies? What directives by the Belgian State have been communicated in the last six months to the Belgian airlines defining flight restrictions on the European and African continents as well as on the Middle East? On what basis are these guidelines drawn up? Is there a specific procedure in place, for example, with the defence intelligence services? How many lines of Belgian companies are likely to fly over areas of conflict set out in the current Belgian and international recommendations? What is the collaboration between the Belgian authorities and international bodies? What procedure is in place for airlines? How is this communicated to them? I spare you the question about travellers since it has already been asked.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic291x.u15	Madam President, in accordance with the 1947 Chicago Convention and because of the principle of sovereignty over territorial airspace, the competence to close airspace or not falls within the exclusive competence of the country concerned. The principle is therefore that each State is responsible for assessing the risks for flights within its own airspace and is therefore competent for any restrictions to be imposed. It is also possible for a State to prohibit aircraft registered in its national registry from operating within the airspace of another State that it considers unsafe. Finally, airlines themselves still have the choice of avoiding an airspace for the safety for which they have doubts. At the request of States, conflict zones are monitored internationally by ICAO, which launched a risk information platform in 2014 on conflict zones. The objective is to report and centralize information from States on the risks to civil aviation arising from conflict zones. In order to further formalise the procedure set up by EASA and the civil aviation authorities of the Member States, a high-level European conference decided at the end of September 2015 to set up a working group to examine the feasibility of implementing a formal and binding procedure integrating the various components. The results of the recommendations should be communicated under the next Dutch presidency. Eurocontrol, which works in collaboration with ICAO, has also developed a protected site containing the latest information and risk assessments that are shared with the company's road managers. The Eurocontrol network operator is currently the network operator designated by the European Union and responsible for developing and maintaining a strategic European network plan and provides the aviation community, through the Network Operations Portal, with a common view of the situation of the air network throughout Europe and with work to develop new routes in order to divert traffic from conflict zones while maintaining the performance of the European network in collaboration with airlines and air navigation service providers. The DGTA transmitted to Belgian operators the EASA SIBs on the overflight of the following conflict zones: Afghanistan, Iraq, Libya, Pakistan, Somalia, Ukraine, Yemen and Russian military activities over Syria. It should be noted that, in the case of conflict zones in Africa, contact with Brussels Airlines is made as soon as the draft SIB is published and before the final publication. The areas mentioned have a limited impact on Belgian freight carriers whose destinations are potentially irregular. However, no passenger lines operated by Belgian companies are currently affected, the conflict zones being bypassed in this case.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic291x.u16	Did you quote Egypt, Madam Minister. No? It's a little strange. There have therefore been DGTA initiatives, there are initiatives at European level. That's what I understand. On the other hand, the airlines did not take initiatives on their side. This was not considered appropriate.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic291x.u17	Madam Chair, all questions have been answered.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic291x.u18	Madam President, Minister, SNCB's rolling stock is of very high average age. There are also motor cars dating back to 1973. In order to renew this aging rolling stock, on 24 December 2013, SNCB launched a historic market: 3 billion euros to obtain about 145 000 additional places. The control essentially contains double-deck cars in both auto and non-motorized versions. The arrival of these first M7 vehicles was announced for 2017. Since then, water has sank under bridges and this order has become increasingly late. Last February, in this same commission, you announced that the first vehicles would not be delivered before 2019. But the delay has worsened. In addition, the manufacturer, Bombardier, requested a letter of intent from SNCB in order to obtain a firm commitment from the public undertaking. SNCB's board of directors would not have sent this letter until the end of September 2015. Adding to this the planned decrease in federal staffing for this and subsequent years, it would appear that the first M7 vehicles will only arrive much later than in 2019. Minister, can you give us the delivery time for the first M7 vehicles? If so, when will they be delivered? How many motors does this first part of the order concern? What percentage does this represent compared to the total order placed in 2013?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic291x.u19	Mr Devin, deliveries of the first M7 vehicles are scheduled for September 2018 and are expected to last until December 2021. In the first part of this M7 framework agreement, there are 445 vehicles among the different types of equipment (normal car, pilot car, motorized car) which represent the equivalent of more or less 90 motor vehicles. This represents about 30% of the estimated volume required by 2025. No orders were placed in 2013. Only a contract notice was published in December as you mentioned it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic291x.u20	Minister, thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic291x.u21	Minister, the recently established rail intermodality platform will be responsible, among other things, for the Regional Express Networks (RER) expected for Antwerp, Ghent, Liège and Charleroi. This project has been designated by the acronym "AnGeLiC" and is part of the suburban offer "S". The aim of the RERs would be to improve the suburban supply of these cities by increasing the frequency and regularity of trains and reopening of old stop points within a radius of 30 kilometres around urban centres. In this regard, Minister, these are my questions. Is there already a map of the stations that will be part of the future RER in Charleroi and Liège? Can you describe to us the already known details of the offer that would be put in place in Charleroi and Liège? How long would the two Walloon RERs be effective? If you have information about Antwerp and Ghent, this can obviously be interesting.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic291x.u22	Dear colleague, in the context of the studies which SNCB is currently carrying out on the opportunity to develop suburban networks around the cities of Antwerp, Ghent, Liège and Charleroi, SNCB tells me that there are plans for maps of possible RER in Liège and Charleroi, projects based on the current offer of SNCB. These two maps were designed on the same principles as those used for the Brussels suburban offer map. They incorporate the possible suburban rail relations of the SNCB as well as the structural relations of the TEC Charleroi and TEC Liège. SNCB informed me that these studies are still under way and that their progress will be presented to its management bodies in the near future. SNCB states that it is premature today to advance launch dates. This is one of the elements studied, which will have to be part of the budgetary framework that will apply to SNCB.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic291x.u23	With regard to the submission to management bodies, do you have any idea of the deadline?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic291x.u24	SNCB is in charge of its agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic291x.u25	Madam President, Minister, the longer the time passes, the more the parking lots around the stations become fee-paying. Five years ago, the turnover of B-Parking, a subsidiary of SNCB which manages car parks near railway stations, was EUR 1.77 million. In 2014, this figure was multiplied by five and represents EUR 8.65 million. From a financial point of view, it is therefore understandable why SNCB is opting for more paid parking. However, making car parks pay in the vicinity of railway stations has a deterrent effect for rail users. The additional cost of parking is estimated to be between 17% and 28% of the sum of a user's subscription. Facing the price of subscription, parking, punctuality problems and trains, commuters are increasingly reluctant to travel by train and thus prefer to travel by other means of transport, such as the car. Minister, on the basis of what criteria does SNCB decide to pay for parking? Is there any harmonisation of parking rates on Belgian territory? If so, when will it be applied, and how high will the tariffs be? Can you tell us how many parking lots will be paid in the short and medium term throughout our country? What are they?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic291x.u26	Mr Devin, the answers I will give you are identical to those given in response to oral questions Nos 6657 and 6852. SNCB is not in favour of free parking for commuters and their customers. Indeed, in 2005, under the leadership of Minister Johan Vande Lanotte, Minister of Budget and Public Enterprises, SNCB had already expressed a pilot project by making the car parks of twelve railway stations free of charge. The aim was to provide better accessibility to the car parks of these twelve stations for commuters holding a train card or a free route by offering them free parking. Occasional travellers continued to pay a preferential fare and non-travellers paid a commercial fare. At the end of the pilot project at the end of 2006, it turned out that, wherever free of charge had been introduced, some of the commuters who used another means of transportation to the station had abandoned the station to pick up the car. The measure also led to a transfer of commuters who parked free of charge in the immediate vicinity of the stations, as well as a considerable increase in demand for parking spaces, without, however, creating an increase in the number of passengers. In financial terms, the project has resulted in revenue losses in terms of operating costs and has called for significant investments to expand existing car parks and/or create new car parks. Following these conclusions, SNCB has developed and implemented a new Parking Strategy based on five pillars: - the guarantee of availability of seats for regular subscribers and the priority staff necessary for the proper functioning of trains and stations; - pricing differentiated according to station types, user types and local markets; - the coverage of operating expenses by revenue; - encourage the use of public transport between the home and the station, avoiding any tariff competition with the price of the subscription De Lijn, TEC and STIB; - develop a range of complementary services in connection with railway station car parks, such as shared cars and bicycles or intermodal services. Depending on the type of parking, but also on the specific characteristics of each station and its environment, there are three possible modes of operation: installation of an access control device, installation of timers in collaboration with cities and municipalities or a private partner, and no free equipment or parking. The introduction of an access control device is justified if at least one of the following criteria is met: either the car park is in operation, the operating costs are therefore higher, this type of car park can only be managed by an access control system; either the car park is saturated by non-traveller users; or, on the contrary, if the car park does not have a saturation problem and if there is commercial potential, the presence of an access control allows external financial returns to be made; or the car parks are saturated by travellers and capacity extensions are not foreseen in the short term or are not possible. By applying commercial pricing for non-travellers, SNCB wants to free up more seats for travellers and guarantee them a parking space. For travellers living in a radius close to the station who came by car to the station, SNCB hopes that parking rates will encourage them to change their mode of transport to reach the station. SNCB's Parking Strategy does not provide for the application of a single tariff across the entire network. The pricing policy is based on a matrix that takes into account the type of station and its environment, the type of user, and the proximity of the parking space to the station. Currently, SNCB via its subsidiary B-Parking operates 67 parking lots around 35 stations for a total of 23,502 locations. At the end of 2018, SNCB B-Parking aims to reach 112 paid controlled car parks around stations, or more or less 42,000 locations. Among the stations that will see their parking facilities equipped with access control, we can mention: Mouscron, Andenne, Enghien, Saint-Ghislain, Huy, Louvain-la-Neuve, Essen, Herentals, Saint-Trond, Landen, Malines, Tirlemont, Blankenberge, Ostend, Lede, Geraardsbergen, Grand-Bigard, Aalter, Lokeren, Merelbeke, Mol and Hasselt.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic291x.u27	Madam President, I thank the Minister for her comprehensive response to this question, whether it is the past, the present or the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic291x.u28	Questions Nos 7449 and 7450 by Mr Crusnière are converted into written questions. The same applies to Question No 7506 by Mr Van Hecke and Question No 7700 by Mrs Lahaye-Battheu.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic291x.u29	Madam President, Madam Minister, drivers of construction site machinery drive their machinery from one yard to another by public road. These machines require a driving licence C. The Federation of General Building Contractors does not want the drivers of such machines to commit and be convicted of an offence. It wants drivers to be in order and insists that they should be allowed to drive such machines with a driving licence B instead of C, not only because obtaining a driving licence C is an expensive matter, but above all because driving such machines does not require the knowledge associated with a driving licence C. It therefore calls for an adjustment. As to whether this is appropriate or not, I would like to address you, and you have announced that changes would be made to the Road Code. Is that underneath? Are you prepared to answer that question and will you exempt those drivers from holding a driving licence C?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic291x.u30	Madam President, Mrs Dumery, my administration was informed of this issue during the last quarter of 2014. Since the beginning of 2015, meetings have been held with industry and administrative representatives to find a way to address this issue. The construction site machinery belongs in principle to category C. Europe is competent for the classification of vehicles and the corresponding required driving licences. The European Commission must agree to the introduction of a derogation system to allow these vehicles to operate under certain conditions. A letter was sent to the European Commission in June 2015. The letter was well received, but as an answer was awaited, they were contacted. The European Commission official replied that the question submitted by Belgium on the feasibility of such an exemption raised many legal questions and required a complex analysis. The results will soon be communicated to the Belgian administration. In the event of a positive reply, a draft amendment to the Royal Decree of 23 March 1998 on driving licences will be drawn up. In the event of a negative response, it will therefore not be possible to meet the demand of the sector. The sector, and in particular FABA, is closely involved in this dossier, and information on the progress of the project is regularly provided.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic291x.u31	Madam Secretary, thank you for your detailed reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic291x.u32	Madam Minister, the personalised number plates show that some people are rather inventive about the name. Not only do we really see funny number plates passing through, apparently there are those who want to see expressions of extremism and possibly a preference for terrorism or radicalisation in their number plate. In my explanatory statement, I gave an example of such a license plate. What does it do at such a time? Are we going to allow that or not? Since the introduction of the personalised number plates, have any records been issued that contain references to militant extremism or terrorism? If so, are you prepared to take an initiative with a view to withdrawing or unavailability of personalised number-plate combinations containing references to militant Islamism or other militant extremism or terrorism?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic291x.u33	Since the introduction of the personalised number plates, no license plate has been issued with references to militant extremism or terrorism. The DIV monitors the combination requested at the handout of the personalised number plate. Combinations of offensive, racist or xenophobic nature are prohibited. In addition, the DIV reserves the right to revoke any combination and to delete any combination subject to an indictment, without any compensation being required by the holder. This information shall be communicated to the applicant for the personalised number plate on the reservation form.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic291x.u34	Madam Secretary, thank you for your clear answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic291x.u35	Madam Minister, SNCB owns a lot of land and buildings. Land that is no longer necessary for its strict transport task can be sold. In recent years land has been sold to different cities and municipalities. My questions to you are the following. Can you give me an overview of the land and buildings purchased by SNCB or its real estate subsidiaries in the city of Hasselt, the AGB and/or the holdings to which Hasselt belongs? Please specify price and date of purchase. Can you give me an overview of all the land and buildings sold by SNCB or its real estate subsidiaries to the city of Hasselt, the AGB and/or the stakes to which the city belongs? Also here with indication of price and date of sale. Can you give an overview of the land and buildings purchased by Eurostation and/or Euro Immo Star? Please specify price and date of purchase. Can you give an overview of the land and buildings sold by Eurostation and/or Euro Immo Star? Please repeat the price and date of sale.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic291x.u36	Mr Raskin, SNCB is an autonomous public undertaking that can freely choose its commercial and operational strategy, as well as the instruments and means to follow this strategy. In particular, it may decide freely on the acquisition, use and spoiling of its goods within the limits of its purpose. As can be seen from the parliamentary question, explanations are requested regarding the purchase and sale by SNCB, Eurostation and/or Euro Immo Star of land and buildings no longer required for the transport task of SNCB. The parliamentary question therefore refers to decisions which fall outside the public service remit of SNCB and belong to its purely commercial activities, for which SNCB can act freely. These activities are not subject to administrative supervision. The above is all the more true for SNCB's real estate subsidiaries, which are legal entities of a private nature. In addition, SNCB and certainly its real estate subsidiaries are active in a competitive environment in the context of the endorsed real estate activities. The information requested could provide information to competitors or potential buyers regarding their strategies and margins. The disclosure could therefore harm them. Therefore, the information relating to the contracts is confidential.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic291x.u37	Madam Minister, thank you for your unclear but also clear answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic291x.u38	Mrs Van Camp, you have the floor for your question. 7825.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic291x.u39	Madam President, that question will be converted into a written question, as I had already mentioned.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic291x.u40	Okay.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic291x.u41	Madam President, Minister, this question concerns the problem of noise. I have been examining this dossier for a number of years, and I have already asked questions about this matter to your predecessors. Residents who live along railway lines where goods pass have, quite rightly, requested additional investments from Infrabel. I am thinking in this connection of the Montzenroute or of railway line 50 between Ghent and Brussels. It has always been said that there is a programme to work on it. For example, former Minister Labille replied that 40% of SNCB passenger trains will be of the low-noise type by 2015. It was always the intention, both at SNCB and Infrabel, to combat noise as much as possible at the source. In addition, freight trains would be monitored via some 30 systems installed on the network. Madam Minister, we are now a few years after the plans that were drawn up at the time. What criteria does Infrabel apply to the placement of noise dampening screens? Put Infrabel standard sound screens on all new projects? What are the criteria for this? 2015 is coming to an end. Is it true that effective 40% of SNCB's fleet is of the low-noise type, or has that objective not been met? Similar developments were expected for freight trains. What objectives have been set for this purpose? That was not clear at the time. What's the status of the monitor system with those 30 points? Is that complete and evaluated? The fight against noise was announced as a project to be spread over several years. Is this taken into account when drawing up the appropriations within the investment cell?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic291x.u42	Madam President, in the development of new railway lines, Infrabel follows the provisions on environmental impact studies, in accordance with the legal provisions. If those studies show that noise levels need to be reduced, those measures shall be integrated into the design. Infrabel has no impact on noise abatement measures taken by railway operators. With regard to freight transport in particular, I would also like to mention that there are European measures to support retrofitting and to encourage the installation of low-noise brake pads. Based on test results, a supplier was selected who has now started rolling out. In 2015, three more systems will be installed: L50 Kwatrecht-Wetteren, L24 Remersdaal-Montzen and L75 De Pinte. By the end of 2015, eight of the 30 systems will be operational. In 2016, three systems will normally follow again. 50% of the monitoring systems will then be placed. The evaluation of these systems is promising. Many errors are detected and the low noise equipment of the various operators can be mapped. Operators shall be informed of this information. Infrabel participates actively in the preparation of noise maps and of action plans to reduce noise levels, in accordance with European Directive No. 2002/49 on the evaluation and management of environmental noise. The financial resources for this purpose form part of the financial resources for the maintenance of the railway infrastructure.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic291x.u43	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic291x.u44	The next item is the debate on the following motions for resolutions: Mr Geerts on the number of incidents on Kempian lines.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic291x.u45	Madam President, Minister, this was initially a written question submitted on 9 September 2014. I wanted to put them orally now because I still haven't gotten an answer. Now that an answer can be given, I would like to turn it into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic291x.u46	It's been noted.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic291x.u47	Madam Minister, in a previous oral question I looked at SNCB's plans to transfer a series of services from Hasselt to the other provinces. However, you did not give a full answer to my question about the future of the staff office. I would therefore like to put the question to you again. Firstly, the Transport 3 staff offices were retained in Liège and Charleroi because the transfer to Bergen or Namur would be too heavy for the staff. Is this true? Or were the staff offices in Liège and Charleroi retained for other reasons? If so, which one? Secondly, for the Limburg staff there is a similar reasoning. The staff agency would move to Antwerp, but also the transfer between Hasselt and Antwerp is not very attractive. One is soon on the road for an hour and a half, a single journey. Are you therefore prepared to make the exception that was made for workers from Wallonia also for workers from Flanders? If not, what are the reasons for this? Thank you in advance for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic291x.u48	Dear colleague, in March 2014, the Train Guidance Service decided to move towards a district-level structure. This structure will be introduced gradually and will be realised for the majority of staff as foreseen by the end of December 2015. Certain administrative staff in Flanders and Wallonia have not yet moved to the district seat because of their personal social situation, the internal organisation, or because they retired in the short term. Within the current efficiency exercise, all local administrative services within Transport will be centralised at district level by the end of 2016. All staff involved will be treated equally, both in Flanders and Wallonia. The existing regulatory provisions are always respected. This means that the staff offices of Liège and Charleroi also shift to the district seats of Bergen or Namur. All local administrative services of Transport will be centralised at district level as part of an efficiency exercise. Of course, the local organizational situation and the personal situation of the employees will be studied and transitional measures may be considered in certain cases.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic291x.u49	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. Did I correctly understand that the exercise would be completed by the end of 2016? [[Assent]] I'll be sure to follow it up. Alvast betankt.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic291x.u50	Mr Devin, you have the floor for your question under agenda item 16.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic291x.u51	Madam President, Mr Geerts, who is one of the most fraternal colleagues in this Parliament with me, wishes to be able to ask his question just before mine. I don't have a problem with that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic291x.u52	Madam President, Minister, this question concerns the security measures for Thalys boarding places, which we have been able to look at with the committee. Enhanced measures have been taken, but also measures that have an impact. I mentioned the case of Antwerp-Central in the written record of my question, where the back of the station, the side of the Kievitplein, is closed, with the effect that there is limited communication with passengers using this entrance and the like. What are the plans for the security of Thalys boarding places in Belgium? Is it about temporary measures such as closing entrances and patrols being sufficient, or is it also thinking about infrastructure interventions to create separate access for Thalys travellers? So is the idea that you launched stuck? Is SNCB aware that the communication of additional security measures is not sufficient in the Antwerp Central station?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic291x.u53	Madam President, in connection with the security measures for the Thalys in the context of the increased threat of terrorism, a check of persons and baggage for passengers in international traffic was organised at the Brussels-South station on 21 November 2015 at the request of the railway police. These checks were extended to the stations Antwerpen-Central and Liège-Guillemins on 23 November 2015. In addition, certain Thalys trains on the Brussels-Paris route are accompanied by mixed patrols from the Belgian railway police and the French PAF (Police aux Frontières). SNCB is currently examining how these measures can be continued in a structured manner. Infrastructure adjustments are, of course, needed, especially in the stations where international trains stop: Brussels-South, Brussels-North, Brussels-National Airport, Antwerp-Central, Antwerp-Berchem and Liège-Guillemins. In addition to infrastructure adjustment, such as separate access to platforms to international trains, organisational and technical security measures should also be optimised. This includes the installation of x-ray devices and detection portals and the use of additional security agents to carry out the effective controls. The big problem here is that all platforms, both for international trains and for inland trains, are used. As regards communication on security measures to passengers/customers, the necessary communication measures have been taken by SNCB since the introduction of the additional security measures in Antwerp-Central. It concerns in particular information boards in the station, communication via the screens and broadcasting messages for the departure of the Thalys. Thalys itself also informs its customers/travelers through its website and leaflets. The station staff, as well as the SNCB security services, are responsible for the channeling of passengers and inform them where necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic291x.u54	I thank the Minister for her answer. Of course, it is always a very difficult debate, similar to the debate on railway security. The question is what line one should draw and to what extent one should participate in that security. Imagine if something were not done and something would happen, to what extent would one feel guilty? I hope, however, that there will be a healthy balance here between a certain level of efficiency and the efficient use of resources. In January, I will ask again what measures have been taken.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic291x.u55	Another additional answer. I took the initiative to discuss this issue with my fellow Members from Germany, the Netherlands, France, Luxembourg and Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic291x.u56	Minister, a study recently carried out by the Belgian Institute for Road Safety (IBSR) indicates that the shift to winter time causes a sharp rise in accidents on our roads. The change in time implies an 84% increase in serious pedestrian accidents between October and December during peak afternoon hours. This is compounded by the fact that the number of pedestrians killed in 1,000 accidents increases by 180% with the passage to winter time. For example, the IBSR estimates that in the week following the change of time, eight more people were killed on our roads than the week before the change of schedule. Does the federal government intend to take measures to improve road visibility to address this increase in accidents, particularly during the winter time? If so, what are they? Do you have the number of additional accidents identified following the winter time changeover in 2013 to compare them to the one reported in 2014?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic291x.u57	Ladies and gentlemen, in addition to the importance of proper lighting of pedestrian crossings which significantly increases road safety, it is essential to make road users, whether pedestrians or drivers, aware of being visible in all circumstances. This theme is regularly discussed during the road safety programmes "Contacts" and "Kijk uit". The federal government does not intend to adopt binding rules but supports the importance of seasonal awareness campaigns on this topic. I would also remind you that infrastructure is the responsibility of the regions. I refer here to the elements of the answer that were provided to me by the IBSR which carried out the study. Firstly, this study on the impact of the change of time on road safety, the figures of which are included in the question, is based on approved 2004-2013 data. In order to ensure the validity of the results, it is not recommended to conduct the analysis year by year because the results could then reflect random changes specific to each year and not a substantive trend. Second, the study deals only with pedestrian accidents. The results cannot, without verification, be generalized to all road users. On the other hand, the total number of pedestrians killed on the road, i.e. killed and injured combined, increases by eight units as a result of the change of time, not the number of pedestrians killed. Third, the study seems to indicate that it is the very darkness that explains the increase in pedestrian accidents and not the fact that users should be allowed time to get used to changing brightness. The darkness during rush hour requires us to adapt our behaviour in traffic as pedestrians and motorists, which is not always the case. For weak users, it will be recommended to be as visible as possible and to take into account approaching vehicles when crossing the roadway. For motorists, caution should be exercised in the vicinity of pedestrian crossings.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic291x.u58	Madam Chair, I take note of the Minister's response.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic291x.u59	Minister, you are the first to advocate for enhanced security at stations in our country. Securail's statistics for the first half of this year 2015 are, however, poor. From January to June 2015, 75% of the Sécurail interventions were concentrated in the country's ten largest stations, namely Brussels-Midi, Brussels-Nord, Brussels-Central, Liège-Guillemins, Antwerp-Central, Ghent-Saint-Pierre, Ottignies, Namur, Leuven. If this trend were to continue in the second half of 2015, we would see a real explosion in intervention quotas compared to previous years. Madam Minister, can you give us a detailed account of the number of interventions at the ten largest stations in Belgium? What types of offences are found? Can you give us the figures for each category of crime? What measures are you planning to deal with this increase in crime at large railway stations? When will they be implemented?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic291x.u60	Mr Devin, you will receive a table showing the number of interventions by Securail in the ten largest stations in the first six months of 2014 and 2015 and a second table showing the number of interventions for the main and other facts at the ten largest stations in the first six months of 2014 and 2015. The approach to rail crime is integrated and integral through a preventive and proactive presence of Securail personnel in places where nuisances are detected by strengthening partnerships with local authorities and police services, also through the technological support of surveillance cameras and alarm systems. Targeted action plans, particularly in the fight against aggression, trespassing, copper theft and graffiti, have proved their usefulness. These are refined and adapted on the basis of a hotspot analysis.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic291x.u61	I thank the minister for her response. I shall take note of the figures which have been given to me, which do indeed show a significant increase in the number of offences at the stations, and this in a differentiated way. I will then come back to the minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic291x.u62	Madam President, Madam Minister, today I would like to ask you about the one man car. This concept has been mentioned several times in this committee. Unfortunately, the essential motivation seems to be, as for most of the proposed measures, potential budgetary savings. At the same time, a joint campaign by CGSP, the European Transport Workers' Federation and the European Disability Forum attempted to highlight the major role played by the train attendant in the area of passenger comfort and safety. Examples include assistance to persons with reduced mobility and seniors, the provision of correspondence information, ticket verification, security through door checks and train departure; and, in collaboration with the police, the fight against assault, violence, vandalism and incivilities. The role of the attendant is also central in the event of an incident or accident for evacuation, as we have already seen in tragic events. It is therefore very clear that there are two diametrically opposed positions: on the one hand, that of the field workers and users who are advocating for the maintenance of a quality service in complete safety; on the other hand, that of the CEOs, whom you may share, who want to save money at all costs, to the detriment of precisely what you want to defend a priori, namely safety. Minister, is a decision on the introduction of one man being made? What lines, if any, are affected by this measure? You and CEOs often cite some neighbouring countries that have already implemented this measure to justify implementation in Belgium. In this regard, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that in Switzerland, for example, drivers alone on board are subjected to more attacks than their colleagues who have an attendant on board. Have you carried out a serious and independent public procurement impact assessment on safety issues related to the implementation of the one man car? What would be the cost of implementing such a measure?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic291x.u63	I have already had the opportunity to explain this ambitious objective when presenting my policy note. At the strategic and political level, this project, which will also be reflected in my strategic vision, is under consideration, particularly in the context of discussions on the next management contract. Today, the DOO (driver only operation) is already being studied within the SNCB and all operational, commercial, legal and regulatory aspects are being examined, as well as in terms of safety. When a specific operational track is ultimately chosen, it will be subject to a risk analysis. To obtain authorization to operate the trains without an attendant, the GAME (Globally At Least Equivalent) must be approved. This means that the level of security - and the DOO - will have to be at least equivalent to the current level of security. Security is therefore an essential criterion. If it cannot demonstrate a sufficient level of safety, SNCB will never be able to operate its trains without DOO. The financial aspect is one of the criteria, in addition to those relating to security, commercial and operational impact and legal implications. It is obvious that societal security is one of the subjects to which SNCB pays particular attention. The SNCB shall continue to take all necessary measures to ensure the safety of passengers and train drivers. In a first phase, the DOO would be applied on Brussels S lines and some local lines, which have not yet been fixed. In a later phase, the DOO could be implemented on the S network around Antwerp, Ghent, Liège and Charleroi based on the results of the AnGeLiC studies. For trains composed of Desiro railcars or diesel motors, roll-out and DOO depend on the progress of the risk studies.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic291x.u64	Thank you for your answer, Minister. Of course, I am pleased to hear that a risk analysis will be conducted. I hear you focus on the security aspect. It is an important, central element; I have pointed it out myself. However, there are a number of other elements that are more relevant to the social aspect of the train attendant, which must also be taken into account in this reflection. Unfortunately, in your answer, I do not feel that this aspect, though equally important, is relevant. In addition, I do not have specific information on the methodology that will be used. I hope that we will examine the experiences of other countries, including Switzerland, where the negative impact of the withdrawal of escorts from certain train lines has been clearly identified.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic291x.u65	Madam President, Minister, fraud in the used vehicle market is still present. When you presented your policy note, you explained that you wanted to put in place measures to limit these abuses. The concept of Car-Pass could thus be extended beyond our borders. An exchange of vehicle mileage data could thus be envisaged with other European countries. In this regard, Minister, I would like to ask you a few questions. How could the Car-Pass enter into force beyond our borders? What are your achievements in this area? With which country is the exchange of such data envisaged? Have you already implemented any agreements on this subject? What is the status of the discussions? Do you have a specific agenda in this area? What other measures are envisaged to limit fraud in the market for used vehicles?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic291x.u66	With regard to progress in this area, it should be stressed that only the Netherlands and Belgium have a Car-Pass system. Although the other Member States do not currently have such a system, the aim is to be able to exchange the kilometric data in future in order to supplement the Car-Pass of a vehicle which has previously been registered in another Member State. In this respect, it is necessary to use the EUCARIS Treaty on the European vehicle and driving licence information system. The main objective of the Treaty is the implementation and operation of a technical system for the exchange of real-time vehicle data between the national bodies responsible for the registration of vehicles in their respective countries. A revision of this treaty was requested and acted upon at the general meeting on 7 October 2015 in order to be able to carry out this exchange. Article 9 of the Act only authorizes the provision of such data to the police, customs and judicial authorities. The EUCARIS secretariat has specified that this revision will be signed in April 2016 during the Dutch Presidency of the Council of the European Union. As regards the country with which the exchange is envisaged, this is the Netherlands. An exchange of kilometric data will be carried out with that State as soon as the revision of the EUCARIS Treaty is actually signed in 2016. The traceability of vehicles will be carried out by continuous monitoring of the ownership of the vehicle, from the moment the vehicle leaves the factory, if it is located in Belgium, or as soon as the vehicle is imported until it is exported or destroyed. Finally, I would add that checks are carried out on the registration of each used vehicle through the Schengen and EUCARIS applications to avoid the greatest forms of fraud such as the use of vehicles stolen abroad.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic291x.u67	I thank the Minister for her response.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic291x.u68	Minister, in your general policy note, you refer to the establishment of an accident institute as one of your prevention priorities. In order to put this project in place, you intend to define a legal framework that will allow for in-depth research, in particular, into the analysis of the causes of accidents. Minister, when will this accident institute be set up? What are the expected outcomes of such a project? Can you describe how this institute will work? What will his exact role be? Under what authority will this institute develop? How will collaboration with existing services, including the IBSR and the federal police, work? I can't wait to hear your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic291x.u69	Devin, the bill is currently being discussed with the various stakeholders (police, prosecutors, regions). I hope to be able to reach a final version of the text in 2016. Thanks to the in-depth study of accidents, the public authorities will have very precise recommendations to improve road safety, whether they are regulatory problems, infrastructure problems or the behaviour of users to change. The Institute of Accidentology will host an opinion committee to study all the research projects submitted to it and then agree. The composition of this committee will be representative of the various existing services in the handling of accidents and is therefore of great importance in this project. This will ensure perfect collaboration between them. The IBSR will be a leader in research projects in the same way as others. The secretariat and the Chair will be provided by the Mobility and Transport FPS.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic291x.u70	Madam President, I do not want to go into more detail here than is necessary. I sincerely ask myself whether this does not already exist with the IBSR and what is now devolved to the Regions. What more do we expect? Does that mean that in the past there was no reflection on the matter? Was there not a proposal on road safety?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic291x.u71	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic291x.u72	Madam President, Minister, it has been noted that many people continue to occupy the spaces reserved for persons with disabilities without the special card, which is strictly reserved for persons with disabilities. In 2014, the Federal Judicial Police counted 39,587 such offences, representing more than 108 offences per day. This is a sad fact which shows the incivility of many Belgian drivers. These figures have remained relatively stable since 2010 and a peak of 43,124 infringements was even recorded in 2013, despite the fact that these offences are severely punished by a fine of up to 255 euros. In addition to these offences, some 200,000 cards belonging to deceased disabled persons have not been returned and are still being circulated throughout Belgium. Minister, what measures are you considering to reduce the number of offences related to prohibited parking on places reserved for persons with disabilities? Can you provide us with the number of such offences found to date for 2015? What is the risk to the holder of a false card for disabled parking? What measures are envisaged to combat this phenomenon?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic291x.u73	Mr Devin, education, awareness-raising and control are effective means of combating the fraudulent use of parking spaces for persons with disabilities. Since 2013, offences related to prohibited parking in places reserved for persons with disabilities have also been covered by the Act on communal administrative sanctions, which considerably increases the objective risk of being verbalized. The number of offences committed is expected to decrease in the long term in view of the joint efforts of the municipalities and the police. I also refer to the circular of 23 August 2013 concerning reserved parking for disabled persons addressed to the mayors in order to recall the importance of enforcing the proper use of parking spaces reserved for disabled persons. In response to the second part of your question, unfortunately, I do not yet have the figures for 2015. In addition to the seizure of the false card, a person who uses a fake card or a card that does not belong to him commits an infringement of Article 27bis of the Road Traffic Code, which is punishable by a levy of 110 euros or a fine of 120 to 1,500 euros and/or the deprivation of the right to drive. In addition, in order to punish these offenders even more severely, some prosecutors use other provisions of criminal law, such as article 62 bis of the Law on Road Traffic Police, which punishes a fine of 600 to 6,000 euros and/or a term of imprisonment of 15 days to 3 months. The Administration responsible for issuing parking cards is the Directorate-General for Persons with Disabilities of the Social Security FPS. I would also ask you to put this question to my colleague responsible for this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic291x.u74	Madam Minister, thank you. I would be grateful if I could have a copy of your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic291x.u75	Madam Minister, the European road safety objectives are clear. Each Member State must make every effort to reduce the number of deaths by 50% by 2020 compared to 2010. Recently, you have expressed the federal government's willingness to give new impetus to reduce the number and severity of accidents on our roads. For these purposes, you will need to work on a greater effectiveness of repressive measures and sanctions in particular. What further repressive measures are envisaged to reduce the number of accidents on our roads? When will they come into force? The idea of training as an alternative sanction seems to be one of the new measures proposed. What type of training would be involved? What type of offence could lead the wrong drivers to take these trainings?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic291x.u76	Ladies and gentlemen, I have already explained this in previous parliamentary questions. In addition to the new cross-recidivism system that came into force at the beginning of the year, the complementary repressive measures I am considering are the administrative and rapid treatment of road traffic offences and fines through the adaptation of the procedures for collecting fines and the introduction of the payment order. My administration is also working on a number of projects, such as the conclusion of a bilateral agreement with the Netherlands on the exchange of data of violators, as is the case with France, and the finalization of the procedure for partial transposition of Directive 2015/413 cross-border. I cannot yet inform you of the date of entry into force of these measures, which depend on the evolution of the various steps connected with them. Judges can already propose alternative penalties instead of a fine or disqualification of the right to drive, which allow offenders to become aware of their behaviour and learn of their mistakes. In order to expand the system, my administration has begun a reflection that will be conducted with all interested parties to develop regulations to allow offenders to undergo alternative training instead of immediate perception. As far as the type of training is concerned, the following leads are provided. Defensive driving training could be considered to ensure that the driver acquires skills to avoid infringement situations through anticipation of hazards and compliance with the rules of the Road Traffic Code. The content of the training could be different depending on the type of offence (speed, alcohol, narcotics) and targeted on the Road Traffic Code or driving distraction. This alternative training system will not cover all offences but only certain targeted offences, such as speed and alcohol driving.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic291x.u77	I thank the Minister for her answers. I will come back to her once the projects have been completed, in any case those that are in progress.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic291x.u78	Madam President, Minister, Intelligent Transportation Systems (ITS) are recognized to contribute very effectively to addressing road safety issues. In order to enhance these systems, you mentioned the possibility of developing a national plan that would be the starting point of a federal plan. Among the measures envisaged, a legal framework could be defined for semi-autonomous vehicles. This would be a Code of Good Practice for carrying out tests on the public road with this type of vehicle. Minister, can you tell us what is the difference between the national plan and the federal plan, both mentioned in your general policy note? What type of TSI do you intend to develop in Belgium? Are these systems already applicable in other EU countries? If so, what can these countries do? What is the expected result of the use of such systems? In your opinion, within what time frame could semi-autonomous vehicles be introduced into the Belgian market?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic291x.u79	Madam Chair, Mr. Devin, I have asked my administration to carry out an ITS plan. This plan will be the embryo of a federal ITS point that will hopefully give impetus to a national plan that is coordinated with the Regions. The first step is to draw up an inventory of the various projects that exist at the level of my administration and to position them in a frame of reference that will give both visibility and coherence. This will be done in consultation with other federal and regional departments in order to provide a general view and to highlight a relationship between my STI projects and other areas. The TSI concerns all modes of transport and my services closely follow the development of the multimodal delegated act, which aims to provide information, planning and ticketing services on multimodal travel throughout the Union. Such services help to promote the transition to public transport, including alternative solutions, such as bicycle rental, relay parks or shared car systems, and to combat congestion. As part of my road safety skills, I intend to support the two main projects: the establishment of a legal framework for testing autonomous cars and an ISA plan. The experience of these technologies in European countries is mainly at the level of tests on the public road. Indeed, the technology is not yet mature enough for the marketing of the products. In addition, there are various aspects to be decided. These are aspects related to the behaviour of users (among other things an increased risk of driving distraction and social acceptance because the car takes over certain tasks of the driver), the business case that is to be developed and the issue of liability in the event of an accident. However, if I support and want to strengthen the development of such a technology, it is because Intelligent Transport Systems make it possible to contribute very effectively to solving road safety problems and mobility problems, in particular through better use of existing infrastructure, but also to reduce the impact of transport on the climate. These three components will be recognized in most ITS systems. Pilot projects for semi-autonomous vehicles could take place in a few months. Therefore, my services will present the Codes of Good Practice in January 2016.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic291x.u80	Minister, thank you for that answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic291x.u81	Madam President, Minister, Tuesday morning in Binche is an event that attracts several tens of thousands of people each year. In 2016, the carnival will take place on 7, 8 and 9 February. The Gilles de Binche never move, but this year will be historic, there may be a Gille in Brussels. To this end, the SNCB set up a special chartered train for the return of tourists of one day, after the fireworks. Last year, SNCB did not deploy special trains on Tuesday night. I've been given some excuses, but because I don't have a train, there are fewer people going there. The absence of such a train leads to a series of inconveniences: mobility in the city, the additional dangers on the way back, wandering around the city during the night or rather people in disarray. As a reminder, SNCB did not charter trains after the fireworks for several years. Our will is really to be able to get that train. The fireworks end around 10:15 p.m. and asking for a special train that allows people who partyed to go home safely is not asking for much. It's only logical. Minister, will we have a special train this year dedicated to the return of tourists one day after the firework of Tuesday-Gras in Binche? If so, can you provide us with the schedule of this additional train(s)? Madam Minister, you can imagine my hope.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic291x.u82	On the occasion of the 2016 Binche Carnival, SNCB will make further efforts to strengthen train service on Tuesday morning. This will strengthen a number of scheduled trains originating in and destined for Binche. The SNCB is planning an additional train on Tuesday, February 9 with sufficient space to transport participants to the carnival. Until last year, the second additional train departed Binche at 10:11 p.m. Unfortunately, it will not be put into service next year, as it attracts very few passengers (150 in 2015) despite the announcement and promotion of this train via the SNCB website and that of the city. As in previous years, in responding to your request, SNCB will provide the municipal administration with the required information on the additional train schedule. Since we're only in December, you've got two months left to put pressure on.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic291x.u83	[[It's kind of like playing a football game at 8:00 p.m., ending at 9:45 p.m. and they say, there's a train back, it's 9:30 p.m.]] Do you understand? That is the difficulty. Instead of 10:11 p.m., you put 11:00 p.m., 11:11 p.m., it'll be crowded. Already 150 people on a train... What do you recommend? Re-asking the minister? It's done. SNCB? Who decides? Mr. Cornu? [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic291x.u84	So I will grab the bull by the horns and call Mr Cornu. What is the best way to contact him, Madam Minister, who sees him regularly? In writing? Thank you, thank you for this advice, which I hope will pay for the happiness of all.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic291x.u85	Madam Minister, on 7 December last the Fietsersbond and the Ghent Environment Front, together with ordinary cyclists, protested at the Ghent-Sint-Pieters station. Ever since the completion of the underground bicycle storage, there appears to be a large shortage of bicycle parking spaces. I've made a few inquiries, Madam Secretary. Today, if I am correct, there are 7 168 bicycle parking spaces. Pendants who ride their bikes to the station every morning know the problem. It's a real mission to find a free place. Some continue to search and therefore miss their train, with the result that they arrive too late at work, others simply put their bike out of storage. Of course, that's not a sight either. As a result, the terrain gets pretty messy. SNCB's ambition is to increase the number of bicycle parking spaces to 13 000. The question is whether and when this will be achieved. Will it, over time, be sufficient? My questions are therefore the following, Madam Secretary. Is the number of 7 168 bicycle parking spaces correct? What possible solutions are currently on the table to increase capacity? How could it be organised more spatially? What options are there to offer, on top of the capacity of the large underground bicycle parking, additional places? Is there room for additional parkings, because the neighborhood is already a bit full? Which temporary emergency solutions can be offered? Is there room for temporary covered storage facilities, for example, and what could be a temporary alternative if the underground car park is rearranged?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic291x.u86	Currently there is no general shortage of parking spaces for bicycles at the station of Gent-Sint-Pieters. However, there is a disproportionateness between the available free places on both sides of the station which means that the stalls at the front are overcrowded and the rear stables remain partially empty. SNCB confirms that an increase in the planned number of parking spaces for bicycles is necessary to meet future needs. An analysis has shown that the 10,780 bicycle sheds planned towards the end of the works will not be sufficient. That is why SNCB has agreed to increase capacity to the maximum and thus to provide a total of about 13,000 bicycle seats towards the end of the works, combined with targeted actions against orphan bicycles. In the short term, there is no solution to the housing shortage at the front. In the course of the following years, however, there will be more places.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic291x.u87	Madam Minister, you say that the planned 10 780 bicycle sheds are insufficient and that there will be 13 000 places by the end of the works. Of course, that's not until 2023 or 2024, almost ten years later. We need to step up and see if we can't respond to that question more quickly and quickly. If SNCB wants to promote public transport, it must also make an extra effort in the major cities for bicycle parking. I'd like to hear what you think about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic291x.u88	Madam Minister, yesterday two trade unions rejected the draft social agreement. Today, the unions and management sit together. It is, of course, a draft collective agreement on the 36-hour week, on pensions from 55 years of age for train drivers with 30 years of experience. The proposal is part of the savings made by SNCB and the increase in efficiency. My questions are as follows. What's the timing of the meeting? By what deadline is a social agreement necessary to achieve the budgetary objectives envisaged? I read in the press that should be ready by January 1st 2016, is that right? Is that timing feasible? The collective agreement proposes a special pension scheme: train supervisors and drivers with 30 years of service could retire at 55 years. Was this tested with the Minister of Pensions? This Minister has taken the lead and a number of issues will have to be examined in the context of the tripartite consultations. The Minister for Pensions is working on a list of heavy-duty professions. Does this mean that the driving staff will be permanently included in this list? Finally, another proposal in the draft Cao is to extend the possibility of night work in the railway workshops. What will be the impact of this on the staff? Can you estimate what volume will take place outside the working hours? What will be the impact on the availability of train sets?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic291x.u89	The consultations are proceeding as planned. The Protocol of Social Agreement 2016-2018 shall be submitted to the Steering Committee on 9 December. Staff contributions to increasing productivity shall be submitted for negotiation in the National Joint Committee. A first meeting of this committee is scheduled for 16 December. The protocol of social agreement 2016-2018 is concluded within the current legal decisions on pensions of the staff of the Belgian Railways. This legislation currently provides for the special scheme quoted. It is too early to discuss in detail the possibility of night work in the workshops. Several operational improvement projects are currently being developed, including the strengthening of shiftworks and workshops with the objective of a structural reduction in the immobilization rate of the trains by gradually increasing the maintenance performance of the coaches at times when they are less missed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic291x.u90	Thank you for your reply, Madam Secretary. I think that we should give the social dialogue every opportunity, that is in the interests of the staff, the company and the management. As far as the pension scheme is concerned, there should be absolutely no pre-emption of decisions to be taken in the tripartite social dialogue. I think that we should aim at the objectification of a number of things to see who is eligible and who is not, and that, on the basis of arguments and measurable criteria, we should move away from regimes that have grown historically. I am counting on everyone to show their sense of responsibility, especially with regard to the interests of the staff and of the company, so that a good consensus can be reached.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic291x.u91	Minister, you have launched a large-scale public consultation on road safety issues. At the time, you said that this would increase social membership of the rules. I think this consultation has received a lot of opinion. In a few days, you will lead the General States of Road Safety. I would have liked to know what the results of this public consultation were. Can you communicate to us the lines of forces that you have drawn from this consultation within the framework of the General States of Road Safety?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic291x.u92	You launched the popular consultation referred to by Mrs Matz. When did this consultation start and when will it end? How many citizens have expressed their views on this issue so far? What measures are most often mentioned? What is the main concern of the Belgians with regard to road safety that emerges from this consultation?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic291x.u93	The popular consultation was launched on 22 October 2015. It will end on the day of the General States of Road Safety on 15 December. Through a website, road users are invited to express their views on road safety by participating in surveys or by giving their opinions on five themes: - the Road Traffic Code; - the risk of being controlled; - recidivism; - technology; - accident analysis. Discussions were also held with citizens who had previously registered to allow certain recommendations. To date, the site has received over 9,000 participations from citizens. This methodology was applied mainly for two reasons. First, such a framework is preferable from an educational point of view as it allows for the generation of a more substantiated policy in the areas in which the federal government is active. It also allows the emergence of new ideas. It is only by learning about the topics that people will reflect and form an opinion. Secondly, allowing citizens freedom to express themselves freely would lead to many untapped ideas because of the distribution of competences. Road safety policy is divided between all levels of power: European, federal, regional and local. That is why I have limited myself to federal road safety powers in order to fully respect the autonomy of the Regions. It would therefore be inappropriate to collect a multitude of ideas whose subject concerns only my regional colleagues. We must also respect a number of international instruments, such as the Vienna Convention, which in part determines our Road Traffic Code. In other words, I hope that these general states of road safety will draw solid leads with which I can work, thereby valuing the efforts of all the citizens who have participated in it. Improving road safety is in everyone's interest. I know that in this respect I can count on the support of the vast majority of drivers, who respect the rules. This is also reflected in the IBSR national road safety survey. Nevertheless, it is striking that the majority of the population is in favour of more stringent measures on alcohol and drugs while driving. For example, 92 per cent of participants felt that the use of drugs in traffic should be subject to more controls, 85 per cent felt that an anti-start ethylotest must be installed in the vehicle of drivers convicted of driving under the influence of alcohol, while 69 per cent supported zero tolerance of alcohol driving. The results are available on the website of the General States.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic291x.u94	Minister, we will be waiting on December 15 for more details. As we have been invited to participate by you in the General States, we will be here to hear the outline, even if you have already revealed some of them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic291x.u95	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. Also know that we will be at your side to further develop road safety in our country. Finally, Madam President, thank you for the good management of this committee.
