ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic107x.u1	Madam Secretary, type 2 diabetes is really going to be a global epidemic. This condition used to occur especially in the elderly, hence the name old age diabetes. Now we see that the number of young people is also beginning to increase. The estimated number of people suffering from diabetes in our country is high, and we also see an increasing number of young people here. This is an important problem that society will cost a lot of money in the coming decades. Prevention is the best treatment for diabetes. As a diabetic educator, I can vouch for that. Prevention is a state power, but the federal level has a number of levers to help the Länder fight for more movement and healthier nutrition. A first problem is that there is a lot of information on food labels, but it is difficult to interpret for the average citizen. Terms such as "light" or "light" as much as 1% less fat are used in the flesh. I would like to ask you whether you consider the labelling of our food to be problematic and whether you are considering reviewing it? A second problem is that the sectors concerned are certainly prepared to make efforts, but in the discussions I had with them they pointed out that there was no clear framework with priority objectives. Is there a working group with all those involved: Länder, food industry, retail and education, which can identify the main problems and challenges and set priority objectives in order to create a clear framework? It is impossible to work at all levels at once. There should be a reduction in sugars, fats and salt. Will you set up such a working group on the basis of the food consumption survey? When can we expect the results of the food consumption survey? When can the working group meet? You referred to that in your answer to the current question on Thursday, but you did not give a specific timetable at that time.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic107x.u2	Mrs Van Camp, labelling does not fall within my competence, which is regulated at European level. The regulation has only recently been changed. It was only in December 2014 that the European Regulation on labelling entered into force. There are therefore no plans at present for a new revision of that regulation. You say that this is unclear and it is true. The term "light' does not mean that a product contains no calories, fats or sugars at all. Claims made on labels, such as the entry "Light...', are subject to the European Regulation EC 1924/2006 on nutrition and health claims. It lays down the conditions for the use of terms such as "light-fat', "fat-free', "fat-free', "energy-free', "energy-free', "sugar-free', etc. It may be used if the fat or sugar content has been reduced by 30% compared to similar products on the market. This does not mean the same thing as low fat or low sugar, with the maximum fat content or sugar content being fixed. Of course it also depends on the original product. If the original product is very sweet, a 30% drop in the sugar content can lead to a light product, even if there is still quite a lot of sugar in it. However, the term "light" may be used for a reduction of 30%. In 2006 the National Food and Health Plan was launched with a view to improving the nutritional habits of the Belgian population. That plan was a platform for all public and private stakeholders at all levels, including the Länder. In 2014, the National Food and Health Plan's budget was fully transferred to the Communities as a result of the state reform. The new food consumption survey in the Belgian population evaluates the dietary habits of the age group from 4 to 65 years. For the first time, there are three large groups. That poll will map the dietary habits and was financed by the budget of the National Food and Health Plan. The results of this new food consumption survey will not be available until the end of 2015 or early 2016. My administration will continue to follow the guidelines of the National Food and Health Plan that are within its remit, such as the policy preparation for the standardisation and labelling of food products and the consultation with private and social actors to enforce engagements on the reduction of salt, sugar and saturated groups. That is the working group I referred to. These actions will eventually form part of a new federal plan for nutrition and health, but of course within our limited powers. I am also counting on the Communities to do their work.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic107x.u3	Madam Secretary, I didn't quite understand if everyone was in that working group. Is it a working group with the Länder, the food industry, retail, catering and education? This is a frustration that I often hear from the sector: they can make efforts, but if other sectors and levels do not cooperate, they can never change. I look forward to meeting that working party and their decisions, and I will continue to ask questions about them.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic107x.u4	The food producers are also involved, because they are ultimately at the root of the problem. They know what's in it and how much sugar is added.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic107x.u5	What about the catering and retail?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic107x.u6	They do not produce food, they serve it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic107x.u7	Of course, they're offering it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic107x.u8	There is a system in the Horeca, the rules of which are defined by the sector itself: the quality label represented by a smiley.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic107x.u9	Yeah, that happens on a voluntary basis. It shall then contain "calorie-friendly' or "sugar-free'. Of course, they make an effort, but not everywhere. One has to see where one steps in.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic107x.u10	Madam President, Madam Minister, I do not need to repeat the figures here. They're known. Every year a lot of smokers at the Tobacco Stop Line are knocking on the door asking them to help them quit smoking. The organisation can present nice results. A little less than half of those involved succeed in stopping through Tobacco Stop. That is not easy, because it is mainly about heavy smokers, who have often been addicted for a long time. A fifth of the participants have done more than five stops. What is striking in the figures is that smokers who use aids and smoke-stop medication are much more likely to stop smoking effectively. However, these products are pricey and reimbursement is currently limited. This makes it particularly difficult for disadvantaged groups to get rid of tobacco addiction. That is why I have the following questions for you. Firstly, are you considering whether it is possible to set a smart refund for smoke-stop medication? Secondly, do you have any other plans to reduce tobacco addiction in Belgium in the coming years? If so, which one?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic107x.u11	Madam President, Mrs Van Camp, the first smoke cessation attempt has been repaid for several years. The efficacy of retreatment is scientifically demonstrated in the ongoing procedure for reimbursement of a second smoke cessation attempt. After all, there are also people who fall back. The Royal Decree on the reimbursement of medical care insurance and aid for tobacco withdrawal dates back to 1 October 2009. As a result of the sixth state reform, this competence was transferred to the Länder as from 1 July 2014. The existing rules remain in force until a Land decides on changes or new rules. During the transition period until the end of 2015, the RIZIV still manages the files on tobacco withdrawal assistance. However, it is already acting in the name and on behalf of the Länder. We therefore hope that the transfer will be recorded immediately by the end of 2015. In my capacity as Federal Health Minister, I will also focus in the coming years on the implementation of the EU Tobacco Directive, which sets out various elements for higher health protection. For example, producers and importers will have to provide their customers with mandatory information and the two packaging sides will have to display the warning text and the accompanying photocopiers. There is also quite a lot to do around the aroma dressings that are sometimes added like mint, to obtain a more pleasant smell and taste. Such addition will also be prohibited. So there's still some business in the pipeline. It is, of course, necessary that we always ask the FOD to make preparations for this. This is done within the administration and we will then come to Parliament with it. In the FPS, although within our powers, further efforts are being made to discourage smoking.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic107x.u12	Madam President, Minister, this question is actually in line with my first question on diabetes, referring to the food and the will of the sectors to contribute to healthier nutrition, for which there is often a lack of a legal framework. I had outlined here the example of salt, which has been shown to be related to higher blood pressure and cardiovascular diseases. However, the use of salt substitutes in Belgium has a problem, in particular that national legislation prevents their use, for example in meat products. In this context, I am thinking of the Royal Decree of 8 June 1983 on the manufacture and trade of prepared meat and meat preparations, which does not permit or at least severely restrict the use of salt substitutes and flavour-compensating flavouring flavourings. The absurd thing is that in other European countries it is allowed to use potassium chloride, for example. Those products are in the supermarket side by side, which is an important disadvantage for Belgian producers. The problem of salt substitutes thus illustrates the wider problem of national legislation, which makes reformulation for nutritional improvement for different types of food products impossible, whereas foreign companies may use it. Another example is mayonnaise. In the Netherlands mayonnaise must contain 70 % fat, in our country 80 %. Our producers are therefore disadvantaged. Madam Minister, are you prepared to take an initiative to review the current legislation on food products so that innovation and nutritional improvements can be made? Do you also find it problematic that these products are located alongside each other in the store racks abroad, which puts our Belgian producers at a disadvantage? Secondly, do you intend to take initiatives in this area? If so, what timing do you consider possible?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic107x.u13	Madam President, Mrs Van Camp, in May 2009, an agreement was reached between the food industry, other relevant economic sectors and the Public Health Office, in the framework of the National Food and Health Plan. The target was a 10% reduction in average salt consumption by the end of 2012. In 2009 a representative study was carried out by the Scientific Institute for Public Health to know the amount of salt consumed by citizens in Belgium by means of a zero measurement. The daily average was 10,45 grams or slightly more than twice the maximum recommended by the World Health Organisation. So we do have a salty diet. Another study has just been completed to see whether the objective of the 2009 agreement, i.e. the 10% reduction, has been achieved. The results will be available by the end of March. In the consultations with the sectors concerned on the reduction of the amount of salt, of course, salt substitutes were discussed in foodstuffs, such as potassium chloride. Such salts are not necessarily better for health. I am thinking, for example, of sensitive groups such as elderly people with reduced renal function or patients on dialysis. Scientists call for caution with generalised use of potassium salts. In addition, the use of flavourings and flavour enhancers in meat products does not necessarily improve the nutritional value for consumers. In any case, we remain in dialogue with the sector to remove any regulatory obstacles to improving the nutritional value of products, in close cooperation with the FPS Economy. This applies to the reduction of salt, but since 2012 this has also been done in the Energy Reduction Working Group, in which the relevant economic actors, the food industry and the sub-sectors, the wholesale distribution, the federations of the catering industry and the large kitchens are represented. Their aim is to check the quantity of added single sugars, saturated fats and transfats, the excess calories and the size of the portions. The catering industry has an influence on the size of the portions, in the sense that one can lay one leaf of lettuce or more on a plate. The amendment of specific rules for, inter alia, mayonnaise and meat products is currently being examined. So they started the mayonnaise.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic107x.u14	Madam Minister, I still do not understand why a hex containing potassium chloride can easily be imported from France, but not from Belgium. Those products are next to each other in the shelves. Regardless of our regulations in this area, in practice, these products lie side by side in the store shelves The customer chooses which product he takes. This is an important disadvantage for our producers, which should also be eliminated. Potassium chloride must indeed be used to a degree by persons with kidney problems, but so should salt. A more balanced distribution of these products would certainly improve health.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic107x.u15	Madam Minister, in the previous question I referred in part to the forthcoming food consumption survey, in which several thousand Belgians will express their views on their diet and physical activity. You confirmed in your reply that the poll helps the federal government and the Länder to set priorities for their food and health policy. What stage is the food consumption survey at? When can we expect the results? I understand that will be at the end of 2015. What were the consequences of the previous 2004 food consumption survey? When will the poll be repeated? After all, a lot of time has passed between the 2004 and now polls. Is it true that a budget of more than EUR 1 million was earmarked for the 2004 poll over three years? What is the budget for the current poll? What makes the price so high? Is there an estimate of the return on investment? What improvements did the previous food consumption survey actually lead to? Do you have a view of the cost savings associated with this?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic107x.u16	Mrs Van Camp, the food consumption survey is currently at the stage of field research. That is, the investigation with the interviews on the field. Two thirds of a total of 3 200 people, divided into three groups, were questioned. 1 000 children aged 3 to 9 years, 1 000 young people aged 10 to 17 years and 1 200 people aged 18 to 64 years are questioned. The field study will be completed by the end of June. Thereafter, the data shall be analysed and processed. As mentioned above, the first results can be expected at the end of 2015, beginning of 2016. A comparative analysis will also be carried out between the results of the current food consumption survey and the previous one with the 2004 data. For example, developments in eating behaviour and the evolution of food consumption and frequency will have to be demonstrated. I think the equation will be interesting. The aim is to carry out this type of study every five years so that we can map out the eating habits of the Belgian population and adapt the policy accordingly. We will have to see how the other authorities now involved, including the Communities and the Regions, can co-finance the poll in the future. For the current food consumption survey, a budget of EUR 2 million is allocated over three years. This budget is not nothing, but it also has to do with the fact that the current poll, unlike that of 2004, covers three population groups. The survey shall meet the requirements for food surveys laid down by EFSA, the European Food Safety Agency. This has laid down conditions, including with regard to the survey software used. Finally, I should like to point out that the survey contains anthropometric measurements. These are effective measurements of size and weight, for which scales and standing gauges have to be purchased. In addition, measurements of physical activity are made using accelerometers. In other words, more information will be included to enable us to draw better conclusions. In this way, we try to meet the conditions of EFSA, so that we can compare our nutritional behaviour and consumption with other countries.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic107x.u17	Thank you for your answer. I have not yet received an answer to the questions as to what the poll gives us, to what improvements the previous food consumption survey has led to or not, and to the expectations for the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic107x.u18	It is precisely through this comparison that we need to find out what the profit is or where we are going in the bad direction. We need to be able to make a difference. There's only one benchmark on the curve, so we can't know if we're down or up. That is why this comparison will be very educational. As far as return on investment is concerned, reducing sugar and fat is preventive. It is very difficult to measure the return on investment or health outcomes when it comes to prevention. There is no double-blind study. Studies are normally double-blind and randomised. It is difficult for us to ask half our population to eat very unhealthy food and then compare the results with those of the others. The results are therefore very difficult to measure. Nevertheless, there is a consensus on the fact that we must insist on prevention and that there is a certain profit in terms of health. It's just very difficult to measure it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic107x.u19	Minister, we have just talked about a series of issues related to health and nutrition. A population survey will be completed at the end of 2015. Depending on the deadline for arriving at a new Nutrition Health plan between the federal, the communities and the regions, we could decide to discuss these issues.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic107x.u20	I am certainly in favour of this. However, I think that, given the transfer of a great deal of powers to the Communities, we should give them a little time to organise their administrations. We have already had to set up a special support group for family allowances. There is also the stagnation of staff, among other things. I fully understand that. I think the next step will be to get back to working together. In the meantime, we still have the Inter-Ministerial Conference. If we want to take measures, which must also be discussed with the Communities, for example what is happening in the administration of tobacco, we can always work through the Inter-Ministerial Conference. However, I see that they are having difficulty implementing everything. The whole package of the sixth state reform is also a great deal. We have only begun to transfer powers. The adoption of the state reform does not mean that it has already been implemented.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic107x.u21	To be followed while knowing that this issue affects several levels of power.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic107x.u22	Madam President, Madam Minister, about 550 000 Belgians have explicitly accepted what is known as opt-in, i.e. that healthcare providers exchange their medical data via the eHealth platform, i.e. for the time being 5% of the population. By the end of 2015, the authorities want 25 per cent of the population to move on. You yourself announced that a campaign would be carried out to convince patients. It is well known that some are tempted to reverse the principle of patient adherence by passing, not by explicit acceptance - what is called opt-in, but by opt-out, a system which consists of considering that patients agree by default - unless they specify the opposite and withdraw their agreement themselves. Patient associations are firmly opposed, as well as a large number of health-care providers. In the past year, you yourself have repeatedly stated that big data in health care should be exchanged between mutualities, authorities, scientists and pharmaceutical industries. Your colleague, Minister Bart Tommelein, spoke in the same direction during debates in committee. If the sharing of medical data can lead to an improvement in the management of a patient, through a faster and more complete transmission of his data, and if having reliable statistics can be useful in carrying out policies in a relevant way, all this cannot be done under any conditions. Some beacons must be respected. Among them, respect for the patient's privacy, as well as respect for the professional secrecy of which the doctor is the custodian, are signs that can in no way be blurred. To freely share health data between sickness and disability insurance funds, public authorities, scientists and industry, this does not seem acceptable to me. Madam Minister, you have already spoken in favour of these big data exchanges. As Minister of Health, what is your position on the subject? What instructions did you give to eHealth's boss? How exactly do you position yourself to ensure strict respect for the patient's privacy, strict respect for the patient's medical record, and strict respect for the professional secrecy of doctors and caregivers?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic107x.u23	Madam President, Mrs Fonck, first of all, I must tell you that these are two different things. I regret this confusion between opt in for a private medical record and big data, which is something else. You know that the two files must never be confused. Let me explain. Apparently, the discussion about automatic (opt out) or voluntary (opt in), as is the case now, has led its own life. However, today, membership is the result of a voluntary decision (opt in) and a campaign is being conducted in this context. We need to focus on the opt-in system and we are trying, through the campaign, to convince as many citizens as possible that it is in their interest that medical information can be shared digitally between their healthcare providers and only between them. It's very important. The principle of the therapeutic relationship must be a guarantee that no other healthcare provider can have access to this data. In addition, these patient's medical data are encrypted to make them illegible if they fall into the hands of unqualified persons. In this way, strict respect for the privacy of the patient and his or her doctor is truly guaranteed. I would also like to point out that it is not the entire medical record that is shared. This is the part defined in the Summerized electronic health record (SumEHR), which is also in the medicomutualist agreement. It is therefore not a complete medical record but only a part that contains the relevant health elements, necessary for further medical follow-up, treatment or continuity of care. In addition, rules will be established to define which occupational group will be able to see which part of the SumEHR. The doctor's professional secrecy will be guaranteed. I can tell you that's not 550,000. As of 1 March, 712,794 patients had already opted for this system, or about 100,000 people per month. Secondly, massive data sharing, big data, is a completely different problem. Data used for scientific research, analysis of trends for epidemiological purposes, etc. may only be anonymized data. We could in no way find out which person this data corresponds to. This will be done under the control of the Intermutualist Agency, the KCE and INAMI, a trusted third party and, of course, the relevant sectoral committees of the Commission for the Protection of Privacy. The notion of third party trust refers to a body that issues certificates concerning data, for example. It guarantees the security of authenticated data, the issuer and guarantees the supply to the correct recipient. He is an indispensable player in the protection of the patient's medical data. In conclusion, I fully agree with you that sharing medical data can lead to improved patient care through faster and more complete transmission of patient data. Sustainable statistics can be useful for policy making in a relevant way.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic107x.u24	Madam Minister, if I can hear you correctly, you are only engaging in an opt-in system, that is, the patient must actually give his or her authorization a priori and that you will not allow the eHealth boss to switch to another system that is opt-out, the system imposed on the patient. Do we agree that you are committed to staying in a system that requires explicit patient authorization?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic107x.u25	This is the campaign we are going to run and our goal is to reach 5% of patients. Of course, it is little, but for this campaign, we have selected an opt in. If I were to consider an opt-out system, it would be superfluous to carry out this campaign, with the enormous work that this represents. It is important to have informed consent, an opt-in of patients, because the medical record remains the property of the patients and they know the reason why they joined it. It is in their interest to give the opportunity to share the data necessary for their health. It's the unseen option. It is in this sense that we have conducted our campaign.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic107x.u26	Madam Minister, in addition to this campaign and in light of the evolution of the number of patients who will adhere to this exchange of medical data in relation to their interest in improving the quality of care, I would like to pay attention to the fact that this commitment, which you are taking today, is a commitment that lasts for a long time. Switching into an opt-out system would, in my view, be completely contrary to the patient's interest and would clearly lead to totally unacceptable drifts. Minister, I appeal to you to stay in the opt-in system. On the other hand, as far as big data is concerned, at some point the whole thing is to know what field one is working in. It's not a confusion I'm bringing. I hear that some play on the rope according to the times when they express themselves and on what subjects.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic107x.u27	(...) I disagree.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic107x.u28	Minister, let Ms. Fonck finish her speech. You will then react if you want to.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic107x.u29	If you don't mind, I'll finish my line. You evoke big data, scientific research, epidemiological analysis, etc. So far, we could still say why not if it is actually to have added value in prevention, public health strategy. On the other hand, where I absolutely do not agree - and you and your colleague Mr Vld, Mr Tommelein have said this - we are going much further, including to industry and the public authorities. This is no limit and, at that time, the risks are very clear. On big data, I call on you to avoid a very wide exchange that would lead to potential abuses, in every possible and imaginable way.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic107x.u30	You highlight the use of this data and who makes use of it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic107x.u31	First of all, I would like to say that these are two very different dossiers. It is a pity to have brought them together in the same question. We will evaluate the number of patients who chose opt in at the end of the campaign. We can discuss this later. Secondly, with regard to big data, I have always said that it would be useful to know what diseases our children and grandchildren will suffer. As a doctor, you know that ten or fifteen years are sometimes necessary for research to succeed, while the disease continues to spread. This is why scientific research needs big data: anonymous data from large groups that can help us detect these rare diseases. As you have attended hospital training, you also know that the rules in this area are very strict. Still, these two files should not be confused. The data of any patient will not be visible.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic107x.u32	They're not two different files. You are probably trying to step back from your previous statements.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic107x.u33	Not at all! I've always said the same thing.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic107x.u34	Your big data, of course, comes from somewhere, in this case from patients' files – certainly, made anonymous after the fact. Then, yes, I did scientific research. But I'm not an insurance company, not a public authority, not a pharmaceutical company. Using anonymous data to conduct scientific research is one thing; using patient data to disclose it to insurance companies and pharmaceutical groups is another. I would like to tell you that this is going too far. That is not acceptable.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic107x.u35	So it's about who has access to the data banks. The question could have been formulated more clearly.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic107x.u36	Question No 2463 by Mr Franky Demon is transformed into a written question. We are now addressing questions on the implementation of the Belgian plan for rare diseases.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic107x.u37	Madam President, the fact that we have brought together questions on the Belgian level for rare diseases and certain types of diseases is somewhat problematic.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic107x.u38	I ask the minister whether she will answer all the rare diseases questions with a specific paragraph on Verneuil's disease.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic107x.u39	My answer will concern all the questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic107x.u40	Question No 2506 by Mr Willy Demeyer was withdrawn. Mrs. Jadin is absent.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic107x.u41	Madam President, Madam Minister, my questions relate to orphan drugs and to the Belgian plan for rare diseases. Mr. Demeyer withdrew his question because he is abroad. Rare diseases, often genetic and degenerative, affect less than one in two thousand people. The development of their treatment is therefore often very long, complex and unprofitable, since it concerns only a small group of patients. However, this research is fundamental for patients with rare diseases as well as for other patients, since it can also help to develop treatments for much more common diseases. In recent years, however, the pharmaceutical industry seems to be more inclined to pursue research into rare or orphan diseases, not only because of the incentive mechanisms put in place by the European Union but also because of the simplification of procedures for the approval of medicinal products. Thus, in 2014, the European Medicines Agency would have approved fourteen orphan medicinal products and about 100 of them would currently be available to patients in the European Union. In Belgium, it appears that sixty-nine orphan medicinal products are currently reimbursed by INAMI under certain conditions, mainly based on data from clinical studies provided by pharmaceutical companies. A specific and sustainable approach to rare diseases in Belgium therefore seems essential if pharmaceutical companies are to continue to invest in this area. Madam Minister, can you confirm these figures on the number of orphan medicinal products currently authorised by the European Medicines Agency and on the number of these medicines reimbursed by health care insurance? How do you explain the fact that the number of orphan medicines registered in Europe is increasing faster than the number of medicines reimbursed by INAMI? Can you explain to us on what basis the reimbursement of these medicines in Belgium is determined? The Rare Diseases Plan, adopted in February 2014, included a plan to speed up the health insurance coverage of new treatments. Your predecessor had adopted the Unmet medical needs project in order to allow groups of patients suffering from a serious disease to have faster access to innovative new treatments that could have a major impact on their health, when no effective treatment exists on the market. Can you tell us what is the status of this project and whether further steps will be taken in the near future to speed up the procedures for the reimbursement of these orphan medicinal products? In February 2014, the Minister of Health, Laurette Onkelinx, launched the first Belgian plan for rare diseases. In response to the European Commission's recommendation, the plan included 20 priority actions, grouped into four areas of action to be developed by 2017. In 2014, the plan had benefited from a budget of EUR 15.7 million. While some progress has already been made, there is still a long way to go, as the obstacles seem to be accumulating. Thus, one of the decrees implementing the plan was brought before the Constitutional Court. Moreover, the scale of the reform of hospital funding that must be carried out jointly but above all the budgetary austerity decided by your government could prevent you from taking the measures contained in this plan, particularly those aimed at reducing the financial burden on patients. Minister, people who suffer from a rare disease become impatient. They need concrete solutions, not a catalogue of good intentions. Can you then give us details of the measures and actions already taken in the framework of this plan? Can you confirm your intention to continue the full implementation of this plan? If so, can you give us a specific schedule? Since the implementation of the Rare Diseases Plan is to be carried out jointly between the Federal State and the Regions, have any contacts been made in this direction? Can you tell us if this issue will be addressed in the next interdepartmental Health Committee?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic107x.u42	Minister, I find it irrelevant to bring together questions on the issues of the Rare Diseases Plan – including access to drugs – and on one of these pathologies. That is why I will turn my question No 2793 on Verneuil's disease into a written question. It seems to me essential not to play one disease against another. I think it is important to get an answer about rare diseases and orphan drugs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic107x.u43	My initial answer was rather long, since six questions had been asked to me. You know that orphan diseases are included in the government agreement and are a political priority. At the same time, at European level, we are seeking common solutions for challenges such as rare diseases. For the treatment of complex or rare infections or in the case of very expensive technologies or infrastructure, we will move towards specialized hospital care, integrated into a clinical network between hospitals. In my policy note of 13 November 2014, I also state that the implementation of the Rare Diseases and Orphan Medicines plan will be continued during this legislature. The plan was adopted in 2013 and consists of 20 fairly precise actions concerning the diagnosis and information provided to the patient on the optimization of care as well as the strengthening of scientific research. Several important measures of this plan were implemented in 2014. First, a convention on the selection of reference laboratories for non-genetic diagnostic tests was signed in July 2014 between the Scientific Institute of Public Health and INAMI for the conduct of a feasibility study. The Scientific Institute will also conduct a study on the creation of a quality system in genetic centres. A report on this is expected by the end of the year. Second, agreements were also concluded in 2014 with new reference centres for haemophilia. Third, it is important for patients with rare diseases to identify the centres with the most appropriate expertise for their disease. That is why we have planned the organization of care for rare diseases that allows us to recognize the expertise and locate it. Accreditation standards for hospitals were developed for this purpose and the corresponding royal decrees were published in August 2014. The next step in this process is the recognition of the centres by the Communities and the Regions. Fourth, the Royal Order defining the conditions for accelerated and early access to medicines for patients with rare diseases came into effect in December 2014. Fifth, the central register of rare diseases integrated with the Scientific Institute of Public Health was launched this month. As a first step, this registry will record rare disease data provided by genetic centres. Sixth, in 2014 the European Medicines Agency launched the evaluation of applications for marketing authorisations for 21 orphan medicinal products. Seventh, rare disease status has been in effect since 1 January 2013. In particular, there is a rare disease when it occurs only once in every two thousand inhabitants and is taken up in the Orphanet databases. The persons concerned are entitled to additional health insurance assistance. The maximum amount to be charged applies more quickly for them and, from 2015, the patients concerned will also be entitled to the automatic third-party payment scheme. I would also like to point out that the problem of rare diseases is being discussed with the Communities and the Regions within the framework of the interdepartmental conference on public health and, more particularly, within the intercabinets working group on chronic diseases. Discussions within the Task Force of the Inter-Administrative Cell for the Chronic and Rare Diseases Plan of the FPS Public Health have been relaunched recently. The decision to reinvigorate this Unit and to establish the composition of these working groups was taken earlier this month. The Working Group on Chronic Diseases held its first meeting and will continue to address this issue in the course of 2015. Finally, I also want to take a number of initiatives at European level and with my European colleagues. Preparatory work in this regard has already begun. The following elements of my reply are addressed to Ms. Fonck and will be forwarded to her in writing.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic107x.u44	Minister, I will read with interest the content of this fairly precise answer given to me. I see that there is a willingness to pursue what had been implemented under the previous government. Twenty actions were provided for in the original plan and I pointed out in the response seven actions that have been carried out or are under way. I would ask the minister to remain extremely attentive to the continuation of the plan, and also to the fact that the plan has sufficient budgetary resources. I will also remain extremely attentive to the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic107x.u45	Madam Secretary, for my question about the impact of fine dust a while ago, you referred me to your colleague Marghem. In her reply, she referred me back to you for a certain part. I quote part of her answer. "As part of the National Environment-Health Action Plan, in collaboration with my colleagues in Health and the Environment at different levels of authority, I am involved in the implementation of a certification in environmental medicine. This certification should enable health professionals to better manage pathologies related to environmental causes." For les compétences fédérales she says that this certificate should be recognized by you. It adds matters relating to air quality in the global medical dossier and finally refers me to you. "For more details, I must refer you to my honourable colleague, the Minister of Health, Maggie De Block." Because I am very interested in this certificate for environmental medicine and because I, as a Green Member of Parliament, pay a great deal of attention to the impact of environmental risks on health, I would like to have an answer to the following questions. Are you working on such an environmental medicine certificate? What can we expect from that? Can you say anything more about that? Do you know of elements such as air quality that would be included in the global medical record? Are you planning any other health and environmental measures? Could you give me a hint of the veil?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic107x.u46	Mrs. Dedry, I'm afraid you're telling the story of the chicken or the egg. Everyone now knows the potential impact of exposure to certain environmental factors on health. Scientific knowledge in this field is still evolving and will in any case have to be multidisciplinaryly processed and passed on. The educational powers in this area have been defederalised for a long time. My services are therefore not competent for training, training or education in environmental medicine. Nor do I see an opportunity to introduce environmental medicine as a special professional title for doctors, since there is no special diploma yet. First comes the formation, then the title. I would also point out that the concept of so-called certificates is currently not legally defined in the CAB No. 78 that defines the health professions. At the moment there is no mention of a heading in the electronic medical file. There is a notion of GMD+. In the context of preventive medicine, consultations were held on the introduction of a number of health risk determinants. You know that smoking is one of them, but air quality was not preserved at the time. When this was discussed, the choice was made between a number of determinants. Air quality wasn't there. Therefore, I do not think it is possible for the individual physician to take measurements or registrations which are important for individual health. However, I would like to highlight the social importance of air quality in the context of health in all policies. This is growing, and studies are already in place. Think of the history of fine dust in relation to the covering of the Antwerp ring in the light of the Oosterweel dossier, a file that has a loaded atmosphere. There, doctors have expressed their opinion on the adverse effects of fine dust on the basis of foreign studies. There were also studies on noise following discussions on the airport. As far as the special professional title is concerned, I believe that there must first be a training and a diploma. After that, it may be possible to consider whether a title should be introduced. So far, it doesn't exist.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic107x.u47	Madam President, Minister, thank you, but your colleague saw it differently.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic107x.u48	Madam President, Minister, this question is well placed since we will be discussing a number of resolutions on this matter in this committee this afternoon. In her resolution, your party colleague, Nele Lijnen, pleads for more scientific research into the biomedical model and is critical of the current purely psychosocial approach. It also proposes that the KCE should further research this in a study. I have read this resolution with great interest, just like the others. I think a study is a good idea. Unlike in the United States, Canada or Norway, the biomedical model has still not been studied very much, unlike the psychosomatic or biosocial model, which currently serves as standard treatment in Leuven and Ghent. In reply to previous questions, you said that it is good not to throw all chronic diseases at a heap but to keep them clearly separate. I agree with you on that. I am interested, especially in view of this afternoon's discussions, in your position as Minister on CVS and on the various resolutions, which you may be aware of. The patients' associations specifically ask to be heard. Are you sitting around the table with them? Will you take measures to better inform healthcare providers in the first line? Will you offer doctors training, for example, as happens in Norway? Are you prepared to take steps to give CVS patients a better status? In other words, what is your timetable and what are your priorities in this respect?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic107x.u49	Madam President, Mrs Dedry, CVS and fibromyalgia are, according to several meta-studies, diseases that are not yet sufficiently known. In view of the large number of patients suffering from this condition and its consequences for their physical and social functioning, the RIZIV is in principle prepared to repay the specific treatments for these patients on top of normal reimbursements, the beneficial effect of which has been sufficiently proven. The RIZIV has always based itself on independent advice from the experts of the High Health Council and the Federal Knowledge Centre for Health Care to determine the treatments for which this applies. It also looks at the recommendations made by other similar foreign bodies. In recent years, a new concept of diagnostic centers for CVS has been developed. The framework has been operational since 1 September 2014 and describes the necessary expertise that a centre needs to have in order to detect and treat the medical cause of the patient's complaints. Among other things, it concerns the availability of a specialist in internal medicine. If no other cause is found, these centres can eventually make the CVS diagnosis and refer the patients to the cognitive behavioral therapist. You know that a lot of other things often have to be excluded in order to ultimately diagnose CVS. Through the diagnostic centres, cognitive behavioral therapy and gradual practice therapy, as is currently the case, will be reimbursed. Candidate centres meeting the criteria of the new agreement will be able to ensure specialist treatment and diagnosis for their patients. Secondly, the diagnostic centres are expected to involve the patient's general practitioner. That is newer, in the past the general practitioner was orphaned and he was no longer closely involved in the further follow-up of the patient. The new agreement also provides for a general practitioner's participation fee and the diagnostic centres provide general practitioners with guidelines on how CVS can be detected early and on the supervision of patients with fatigue symptoms who cannot yet be diagnosed with CVS. The centres should also provide treatment guidelines to the physiotherapists and the cognitive behavioral therapists who work in the first line. The diagnosis and follow-up are of course important, but the weekly treatment can take place at a kinesis closer to the patient, as it is especially tiring for patients to go to the centres each time. In this way, the expertise of the diagnostic centres will flow better, including to primary care. Thirdly, with regard to the social status of CVS patients, I can say that they can benefit from an increased allowance, the maximum invoicing, the third-payer scheme and an invalidity allowance. At present, there are no concrete plans to develop other initiatives in this field than what is already planned or is about to be launched, in particular the agreement with the diagnostic centres that are willing to work on that developed concept. We are indeed waiting for a medical breakthrough in the diagnosis investigation. Once the condition is known, one also knows what to do and a treatment can change it. Unfortunately, there is not yet a breakthrough. It is more than necessary to continue research into the origin of that disease. We once discussed the problem of CVS with then Ministers Aelvoet and Vandenbroucke. You will remember those conversations more than 15 years ago. Madam President, just like me, you were here. We've been talking about it for a long time. Where is the node of the problem? It's because we don't know the diagnosis. We don't know what's physically happening to these people. People of all ages are affected, including young people. I think further investigation is appropriate.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic107x.u50	Madam Secretary, I have two short questions. Firstly, have I understood correctly that you will not order a new study on this from the KCE? After all, that is a question from your party colleague. Secondly, what do you, as a doctor, think of the views of that biomedical model? I ask this out of interest, because there is a lot of controversy in the sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic107x.u51	Mrs Dedry, this afternoon Mrs Lijnen will be able to present her resolution and someone from the cabinet will be present. Other resolutions have also been tabled on this subject. We will certainly answer that, but I do not want to anticipate the question. You know, moreover, that we must be sparing in the number of studies we order from the KCE. There must be evidence-based material for the knowledge centre to do another study on it. Since there is no diagnosis yet, there is no evidence based material. If measures have already been taken on, among other things, refunds, it has happened because there was such a great need in our society and because there were so many problems. However, this was not based on evidence based material. I'm considering all the options, and there'll be someone from the Cabinet who'll follow that closely, but I'm not gonna do a preliminary take-off.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic107x.u52	We will resume the discussion on this subject this afternoon during the consideration of the proposals.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic107x.u53	Question No 2554 by Mrs Maya Detiège is postponed. Joined Questions No 2555 by Mrs Maya Detiège, Nos 2641 and 2642 by Mr Damien Thiéry and No 2671 by Mr Jean-Jacques Flahaux are also postponed, as are Question No 2556 by Mrs Maya Detiège.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic107x.u54	I would like to point out that the questions of the members who, at around 12.30 p.m., did not apologize for their absence, will be withdrawn – as usual.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic107x.u55	Madam Secretary, in 2011, your predecessor, Mrs Onkelinx, sent a letter to the hospitals calling for a candidate for additional PIT pilot projects. PIT stands for Prehospital Intervention Teams. A month before, an extensive opinion of the National Council for Hospital Services had appeared on the future of the PIT. The opinion contained a comprehensive vision to amend articles of the Hospital Act and to make proposals in the context of the recognition of programming. It was the intention of Minister Onkelinx to turn the PIT into a recognized hospital function, to remove the PIT from the project atmosphere and to finance it in a structural way and to arrange it all through a royal decree. Despite that advice, you decided, Madam Secretary, to maintain the experimental character of the PIT. You made a new call for pilot projects. If I'm well informed, there are 21 PITs active today, spread all over the country. In the context of the new call, hospitals could apply. The call letter asks the hospitals to provide information on a number of aspects, in particular whether or not they have a MUG and the theoretical time needed for a MUG to reach the hospital. In the meantime, you have selected three hospitals for the award of a project. Thirty-seven hospitals had applied, ten of which were invited to a meeting. Responses received from some hospitals showed that it was not clear to them on the basis of which criteria the projects were selected. They found the motivation for your answer rather vague. I have a few questions to ask. There has already been a great deal of discussion in committee on urgent medical aid. Under Minister Onkelinx criteria were then established by the National Council for Hospital Services. In general, there were five criteria. They basically meant that the main thing to be done is to perpetuate what is already there today. In addition, the white areas, where there is no service today, must be filled in. We must also look in particular at the regions where MUGs are already present today and where there is specialist emergency care. These were the five criteria put forward by the National Council. I can understand that there is not enough budget to meet all the questions, in application of certain criteria. However, I do have a number of questions, Madam Secretary. On what criteria did you choose the three PIT projects? On what basis did you decide that a hospital that may or may not have a MUG gets a PIT? This is contrary to the recommendations of the National Council for Hospital Services. On what basis did you decide that a hospital that does not have a specialised emergency care is still assigned a PIT, which is also contrary to the recommendations? Did you take into account the MUG's driving times? I would therefore like to know, Madam Minister, what criteria you have chosen to grant the three hospitals.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic107x.u56	Mrs Muylle, first of all, I did not do it myself. I have received an informed opinion on this, let there be no wrong opinion. I'm not outsourceing PIT pilot projects myself. It is indeed an important link in the chain of urgent medical care, but there are two problems today: programming and financing, and this throughout the chain. We have a lot of work to do with this urgent medical assistance within the PIT dossier. That is why I asked the National Council for Urgent Medical Assistance for an opinion on the programming and financing of the whole chain. I expect a consolidated opinion from the Council and its working groups by the end of this year. To your questions regarding the award of the three PIT pilot projects, I can inform you of the following. The call for applications was accompanied by a clear indication of the information to be provided to the candidates in order to examine their candidature. The Annex to the circular also contained a template of table in order to provide the data in a clear way. I dare say that the attentive reader knew which criteria were considered important within the pilot project. The criteria used in the pilot project therefore go beyond those proposed by the National Council for Hospital Services. For example, it is not only important within the pilot project that citizens should be best served by filling in the geographical white spots. You know that it is of the utmost importance that the emergency services get to the patient within a certain time. It is therefore of the utmost importance that there is a chance of success for this pilot project. The PIT Steering Group did not consider such highly valuable projects at geographical level because the success rate of the project seemed to be too low, or vice versa, very well-founded project files were not taken into account due to geographical criteria. For the allocation of pilot projects to locations outside the geographical location of the specialized emergency service, I can only say that this is also part of the pilot phase evaluation. We should be aware that, if we want to roll out a PIT project across the territory, we will also have to delocalise. With only locations of specialised emergency services we will not be able to operate the entire territory. That is why it is interesting to also have a location of a hospital with a specialized emergency service, but located on the campus with a first reception. Thus, as indicated in the circular letter, the PIT pilot project remains a hospital function within an institution, with a specialised emergency service. When considering the assignment of a pilot project to an institution with or without a MUG function, you should know that a location without a MUG function was preferred to a location with a MUG function. Only scientific honesty commands us to consider the dynamic properties of the MUG as well. For example, the number of interventions and the intervention time of the MUG that was already there were also taken into account. When the MUG is much on intervention and the intervention times are too long, the population within the area is not always helped in time. That is why it is interesting to have, in addition to the MUGs, sufficient PITs. We will therefore have to make a puzzle, where the aim is not to have blind spots where aid cannot be in time. That puzzle will have to be made within the entire project of urgent medical assistance. You know that we have a great deal of work to do in this area. The problem in this area is enormous. Nor can we do so apart from the general emergency services, the fire services and any other urgent medical assistance offered here. There is, of course, also a need for consultation with the Minister for the Interior. We are doing the part of urgent medical aid, which we cannot separate from the financing of aid.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic107x.u57	Madam Secretary, it's true it's chaos. The field is so divided. There are so many questions. There is the whole issue of urgent medical aid, but there is also the whole dossier of non-urgent medical aid, which is a competence of the region's regions and where there are enormous problems in terms of standards and transport in terms of reimbursement. You spoke of fire zones. Fortunately, we are still in fire zones where there is very good cooperation with the hospitals. However, there are also areas where the fire department no longer intervenes today. So the field of work is very divided. It's really a klutz. In this sense, we are certainly asking for an integrated model. This integrated model really needs to be created on the basis of certain criteria. At that time, the National Council for Emergency Medical Assistance laid down some of the award criteria. Madam Minister, in your statement of reasons today, I can understand some of the different points of view. I see in the recommendations of the National Council that having a MUG is a matter for the hospitals that do not have a MUG. You have, however, given the reasons why you make that choice, that of course everything has to be done within 15 minutes of the emergency operation. I also follow your reasoning in which you state that you should also look at the white spots. You also believe that we need to move more and more towards specialized urgency, which will also come out very strongly in the story of hospital funding. However, we will also have to ensure that there are outposts and that there are peripheral hospitals in the regional distribution, which can do their thing as part of the first reception of the outposts. Madam Secretary, I'm sure I'll follow up on the case. I also look forward to the report of the National Council for Emergency Medical Assistance at the end of 2015, as well as the recommendation and your response to the dossier.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic107x.u58	Mrs Muylle, there is added value to the PIT projects, as has already been shown on the ground. Otherwise there would be no 37 applications for three vacant posts. It was clear from the outset that there were only three possible posts. However, this will certainly have a follow-up. Whoever wasn't there now might be there in the next round. However, they are classified according to the criteria and according to the need to provide help to the population in the foreseeable future.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic107x.u59	The file is therefore to be followed after the report at the end of 2015.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic107x.u60	Madam President, Minister, as we know, anorexia is a behavioural disorder characterized by significant weight loss as well as a complex relationship to diet, an obsession with an assumed overweight and a distortion of body image. The image of the woman too often conveyed in the media and the diktats of fashion exert a certain pressure around the image of the body and the weight. This pressure contributes to the development of food practices that favour pathological food for the most vulnerable. A few years ago there appeared websites and blogs "pro-ana" that make the apology of anorexia as a way of life. Today, it is the social networks that seem to be stormed by these suffering people. Various parliamentary initiatives have been taken in the past to combat the risk factors of mental anorexia but also to try to address this problem of promoting anorexia via the Internet. Some operators already prohibit website creators from publishing content that promotes dangerous behaviour, such as anorexia. Others require webmasters of "pro-ana" sites to place a warning on their home page or via a pop-up. Several social networks have added in their use policy a mention to the attention of harmful sites for people. This is the case of Tumblr, who forbids the dissemination of such content, Facebook that removes any encouragement to eating disorders or Instagram that disables any account deemed to encourage anorexia without warning. The same is not true for Twitter, for example, which seems to be increasingly invested by pro-anas, and freedom of expression seems to take precedence over content as long as it is not illegal, which is not the case with messages encouraging starvation. Given that eating disorders among children and adolescents have been increasing in recent years, these practices seem to me to be truly harmful because they pose significant risks to the health of the most vulnerable. Minister, are recent studies on the impact of these sites available? Pro-ana sites are banned in the United States and closed in Spain. What is Belgium's current policy in relation to these sites? What is your position on this matter? Do you think that further measures should be taken to combat this phenomenon? If so, which ones? Finally, in terms of prevention, the Communities are obviously competent. Is there any agreement with them in this context?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic107x.u61	Mr Frédéric, like you, I share the same concern about this phenomenon and the health risks it represents. Some countries, such as the United States, Spain and France, have indeed taken legislative measures to ban "pro-ana" websites or blogs. For my part, I do not think that this type of ban can solve the problem in a lasting way. But without further measures, there is a risk of misunderstanding of Internet users or of moving banned websites and blogs. As a result, new "pro-ana" websites and blogs could grow rapidly under other names and would move the target group a little further away from possible awareness raising. That is why I am in favour of another type of measure. In the Netherlands, the Minister of Health has asked Internet service providers to insert a warning text, such as pop-up window, that appears when you want to access a pro-ana website or blog. As you know, the messages explain that on this site or blog communicates anorexia people who do not consider themselves sick and that the site or blog does not give any information about the serious physical and psychological consequences of anorexia and the high risk of death. Warning messages also refer to an informative site. Studies on the impact of pro-ana websites and blogs are available. The positive effect of these warning messages is very real since, according to the studies, 33 to 60% of people reading these messages finally decide not to visit the "pro-ana" website or blog. Belgian providers of pro-ana websites and blogs have been made aware of the dangers they pose to young Internet users. I am pleased to note that a warning message is now present on some Belgian pro-ana blogs. This seems to me to be the best answer and we will continue this kind of awareness. With regard to prevention, it is desirable to introduce primary and secondary prevention in connection with eating disorders. Beyond this point of view, it is up to my fellow Members of the Communities responsible for this competence to consider the best actions to be taken. Teenagers, especially girls, are often sensitive to such messages. Schools and parents need to be very attentive so that they can act as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic107x.u62	I thank the Minister for her response. She points out that she is aware of the problem and the dangers. What concerns me, and I will continue to think about this, is the non-binding nature of the warnings on the sites, which are a way to deter people from resorting to this kind of ill behaviour. I don't know if we can make it. You say that people who produce the sites are asked to warn. They don't have to.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic107x.u63	Some do.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic107x.u64	Some do, some do not. You say that if we were to legislate, a rule would be enacted, but these sites will reappear the next day. I'm interested in sectarian drifts, it's the same thing. Something is removed; the next day it reappears under another name. I'm still going to keep thinking. I think we are putting thousands of people at risk by promoting completely surrealistic and extremely dangerous behaviour.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic107x.u65	Madam President, Madam Minister, according to the Royal Decrees on heavy medical equipment, a maximum is set for PET scanners and such a device can only be prepared and operated by a hospital with the prior consent of the government. Some hospitals did not comply with these rules and at the end of the previous legislature these practices were still regularised. The current government, as I understand it, wants to break with such practices and pursue a straight-line policy that rewards hospitals that follow the rules and does not allow exceptions for hospitals that break the rules. I'll come to my questions. What are you up to with the illegal PET scanners out there right now? Are you planning to recognize them or will the hospitals have to remove them? Is there going to be a sanction for hospitals that have developed and operated unrecognised PET scanners by the government, or have done so in the past? If so, what sanction do you have in mind? Is it a financial settlement and, if so, what order? Which hospitals have unrecognised PET scanners and are at risk of being sanctioned for this? Will the proceeds of unrecognised PET scanners be recovered? Is there gonna be a fine on that? Does the government have a view on which hospitals have what equipment? Do you foresee measures to prevent hospitals from picking up income from unrecognised heavy medical equipment in the future? What measures are on the table and when can we expect them?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic107x.u66	Mrs Van Camp, I understand that you cannot look at all the questions raised by your colleagues, but this question was already put by Mrs Muylle in committee on 2 February. I have given a very detailed answer to that. I brought that and I'll give it to you. Your fellow Members will also have to be active at Community level, because you know that we are no longer competent to do so. A number of things have happened. That's what the answer says. There are seven hospitals that had an unrecognized PET scanner. They committed a crime in the past. In future, the Communities will have to grant and recognise PET scanners. The final part of this plan is to create a register of medical imaging devices to monitor the installation of new devices and the status of existing devices. This power has therefore been transferred. We must, of course, discuss this, but we are no longer competent. I'll get you the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic107x.u67	Excuse me, Madam Secretary, I've missed the question and the answer. I'll take a look at this.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic107x.u68	Madam Minister, according to a study by the ITM, more than 13 000 circumcised women live in Belgium. 4,000 girls are at risk of being circumcised. They are mainly from Guinea, Somalia and Egypt, which you will no doubt remember from your previous jurisdiction. The tradition is still widespread in Africa. Following that study, former Minister of Health Onkelinx decided to conclude an agreement with two reference centres, UZ Gent and Sint-Pieters in Brussels, to finance the care of those women. That was a very good measure, with an annual budget of EUR 500 000. The aim was to provide about 200 women with multidisciplinary care on an annual basis. The same study also showed that young girls and women have a lot of questions about circumcision of young girls, a practice banned by law in Belgium since 2001. Anyone who initiates genital mutilation can also be punished since this year. I have three questions for you about the reference centres, which have been operating for almost a year. Firstly, has an evaluation of the reference centres been carried out? If not, what signals do you receive from the two reference centres? Secondly, do you have any idea how many women have received care in the last year, per reference centre? How many women volunteered for consultation? What kind of care was this? Was it mainly about medical care, a reconstruction, for example, or also about psychological support? Thirdly, a budget of EUR 500 000 is currently foreseen for the reference centres in the RIZIV budget. Does an evaluation have any impact on that budget? Do current healthcare savings have an impact on the budget for the reference centres?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic107x.u69	Mrs Van Hoof, the agreement indeed provides for an evaluation of the epidemiological characteristics of the patients treated, the care provided, the results obtained and the functioning of the centre. The agreements shall initially run until 28 February 2017. The overall evaluation will therefore take place at the end of the experimental phase. In order to ensure correct conclusions, the evaluation period should be long enough and relate to the data of a sufficient number of patients. Data on the number of women registered in the centres for care and/or care are not yet available, but I do have information on the number of benefits broken down by type of care that the centres realized in 2014. In connection with the care provided, I can inform you that in 2014 the two reference centres jointly organised 158 sessions of medical and psychosocial assistance and that two reconstructive operations were carried out. The fact that the centres carried out only two reconstructive operations is partly due to the fact that an operation is not the first step in the process and fortunately it is not always necessary. The operation shall only be carried out with beneficiaries who have already received medical and psychosocial assistance for five sessions, if it is decided, on the basis of the multidisciplinary consultation, that an operation is necessary and if the rightholder has also given its informed written consent. You will understand that this is sensitive in such a sensitive environment and that women must first be accompanied. We get a quarterly follow-up from the RIZIV with regard to the number of women that are received and supervised by the centres. The total budget is EUR 500 000, maximum, but real expenditure depends on the number of performances actually delivered by the centres. It's a payment per performance. A revision of the agreement is not excluded, but it is unusual for this to happen before the end of the experimental phase. As mentioned above, the Agreement will be reviewed globally on 28 February 2017. Given the limited number of guidance and interventions, the maximum amount entered for the time being is half a million euros.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic107x.u70	Thank you, Madam Secretary. I hear clearly in your reply that you support the reference centres and that you intend to await the evaluation. There is indeed a great need for it. Surgery alone is not treatment. There must be a mixed psychosexual and medical-chirugic treatment to cover all facets of such trauma. It is strange that I saw on the website of the Saint Peter's Hospital Brussels that 14 patients received a clitorical reconstruction following the agreement. Maybe they haven't been included in the performance yet? It is clear that in addition to the 200 consultations announced, 100 patients have been treated. Maybe that number hasn't been included in the RIZIV data yet? This shows that the reference centres are a response to major needs. I fear it will not decrease but increase. The global figures show that tradition continues to exist in Africa and is increasingly being exported to Europe by the migratory waves from those countries. The girls who come here from the tradition of genital mutilation have many questions about sexual relations, pregnancy, childbirth. Some people get horrible urinary infections. So I can only advocate a good evaluation and sound figures in order to maintain support.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic107x.u71	(...) There is word-of-mouth advertising that people are being helped there, and indeed, the more women will attract to the reference centres. There is a great distrust of women who have been circumcised, but I think they will gradually find their way. It is therefore good that there is information on the website, which indicates that many stakeholders still have confidence in the reference centres. However, the information I have is already available from the RIZIV. I assume there's a latency time between treatment and reporting.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic107x.u72	I suspect so. It is important to know that children are being circumcised younger and younger. In the case of organisations such as Child and Family, more attention should be paid to the fact that circumcisions take place on vacation to the countries concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic107x.u73	Question No 2643 by Mr Damien Thiéry is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic107x.u74	Madam Secretary, you are following the file very closely. So you may also have heard that the students of the VUB have already voted by a large majority in favour of an entrance examination by analogy with the entrance examination already in existence in Flanders. You may also have read the interview with the French-speaking Minister of Education, Mr Marcort, in La Libre Belgique on 28 February. I will not fail to take some elements out of it. For example, he says the following in the interview: "I hate comparative exams." They're stupid. By way of provocation, he adds: "The medical lobby is behind the reduction of the number of doctors." This is how they protect their income. We are making another analysis of the problem, but that aside. In the interview I also read that the land register should believe in it, but I was confused for a while. After all, he says: 'What is not possible at all is that if Minister Onkelinx comes out with a cadastre that proves that there is a shortage of doctors, this cadastre should not be done properly and again according to this government.' That is strange, because in previous interviews he stated that there has been no dynamic register for years and that this is just the problem. He also said that the quota is based on false figures and that a competition should be based on the figures of a medical register that we still do not have today: "I therefore urge that the Public Health Office and the RIZIV provide us with that land register." Despite your comprehensive explanation, Madam Secretary, Minister Marcourt still does not understand it. In the meantime, although you have repeatedly asked him to do so, he does not seem to have any intention of setting up an adequate filter at the beginning of the academic year. I therefore ask you the question I have asked you before. In the meantime, have you received official confirmation of the plans announced by Minister Marcourt? Do you see enough time to find and implement a solution at the beginning of the academic year 2015-2016?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic107x.u75	Madam President, Minister, the end of 2014 has been an exciting year for medical students. There was a great deal of concern about the granting of INAMI numbers. As Federal Minister of Social Affairs and Health, you have taken on your responsibilities and have agreed to assign an INAMI number to all students for 2015. In return, however, Minister Marcourt had to introduce a filter to limit the flow of medical and dental students in the future. A few weeks ago, Mr Marcourt spoke of a solution and advocated a competition, at the end of the first year, setting the list of students authorized to pursue medical studies with the certainty of obtaining an INAMI number. Minister, have you had an opportunity to talk to Minister Marcourt about his filter proposal? If so, what can be seen from the discussions you had? If not, when do you expect to meet with him in order to find a solution? In my opinion, we are facing a contract, a win-win situation. In doing so, both sides must respect their words and help to change the issue, as provided for in the original agreement. Unfortunately, in fact, this does not seem to be the case. I therefore wish to have information on this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic107x.u76	Mrs Van Peel, Mrs Cassart, this is going to be a real soap opera on the committee. After reading the interview in La Libre Belgique on 28 February, I will make the same analysis as you. I can only remind you that Minister Marcourt also insisted on the so-called dynamic register being made available on the occasion of the meeting I had with him and Minister Crevits on 5 December 2014. Then he told me to have the also vite que possible. He sent a letter at the end of January 2015 in which he gave some intentions about setting up a filter from the 2015-2016 academic year to bring the influx of students into medicine in line with the quotas set by the Planning Committee. Mr Marcourt's view has apparently changed enormously between the letter of the end of January and the interview of the end of February. That surprises me because in the same letter to me, which was also published in the newspaper and is therefore not secret, Minister Marcort reiterated the need to have a dynamic register. I quote from his letter of 21 January 2015, which was also published in the newspaper: "With you, I want to implement a lasting and structural solution to quota management. The latter must necessarily rely on a dynamic cadastre of medical activity in order to cover the needs of providers for the Communities of the country and by integrating changes in time." What happened to Minister Marcort between the end of January and the end of February, I do not know. As you say, it's a win-win. I said I wanted to do this, and he said he preferred other actions. I can tell you that the work in the Planning Committee is carried out in a strict manner. I'd have asked you to do that, too. Between December 2014 and February 2015, several working group meetings for all specialities and for general practitioners validated the data that will be required for that dynamic register. The Planning Committee gave a presentation on this at a hearing of the French Community in the Walloon Parliament. Minister Marcourt was present and gave his interview afterwards. I would like to reiterate what I have already explained on this subject several months ago, in response to other parliamentary questions on this subject, namely that the introduction of an effective filter starting in 2015-2016 is a prerequisite for the adoption of an extension regime for the smoothing period after 2018. Everyone knows that without this smoothing regime, a serious problem will arise for students who have already started their studies and who will graduate in the years 2016-2020. If he does not, he will create an insurmountable problem for the students who have already started their studies. I also consulted the students on this. It is unacceptable to both students and their parents that they should not have access to their profession if they have already started these studies. I have therefore drawn up my proposal in this direction. All those who have already started their studies will be given the opportunity to join the profession through the positive lissage I may wish to extend. Afterwards, however, a negative bid will also be imposed if there is a surplus. The dynamic cadastre was needed to know how many doctors will be needed for our health care and taking into account all demographic, geographical and other evolutions. All these parameters were communicated to the Planning Committee because it is necessary to know how many doctors will be needed and how many we should start from 2015-2016. This issue was placed on the agenda of the March 30 interdepartmental conference and the previous meetings of the Intercabinet Working Group on Care Professions. The Community Ministers responsible for higher education were obviously invited to participate in the work and to present a note, which specifies how the Communities will develop and implement the filter in question from the academic year 2015-2016. Flemish Minister Crevits is also reviewing this filter because, as you know, there have also been difficulties surrounding the entrance examination. These notes should also ensure, during the discussions on the file, that the Communities can convince each other and the federal level of the relevance and effectiveness of the proposed filter. The timely introduction of the filter is and remains the exclusive responsibility of the Communities. We cannot work better than in full transparency, with the relevant ministers around the table. There must be an agreement at the federal level, but also at the Community level, at the inter-ministerial conference. I took it on March 30th.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic107x.u77	Madam Secretary, we will meet again on 31 March anyway, if we could. I would like to mention something. With regard to your analysis of how the statements on the land register may change in this way, I may not have any certainty, but I do have an idea on the matter. I think that discussion will be more internal in the party. This aside, because that is not the most important thing. Again I have heard you say that the entrance exam at the beginning of 2015 is an absolute condition for a further lissage. I also hear you say, I hope, that the negative lissage that will have to follow to pay it back, to put it that way, will be deployed right from the start, so that those two will be linked from the outset to the new quotas. I do not want to be confronted here with a kind of general pardon after 15 years of non-policy on the Walloon side, without having the certainty that this situation will be rectified. I know that there is a point of pain there and that it is not so obvious to link it up, but in this respect I would like to argue that this would happen in one way or another.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic107x.u78	It's two things. In the proposal I have made, those who are now in first or second bachelor's year will no longer be able to obtain their diploma. Therefore, it is important to do that test already at the beginning of 2015. Anyone who's in that cohort from then on will be subject to that negative lissage. That's why we need to cut that number down. I have also told you that, given the surplus made in Wallonia, we will have to spread that negative lissage in Wallonia over a number of years. Forced. It's been a long time. We are adding up all these transfers and that will have to be spread over a number of years. They will also have to be compensated. In Wallonia there have been many years in succession. The number of copies can, of course, be changed if we have the right information from the dynamic register. Given all those elements and full-time equivalents, it is possible that we say that there are several doctors needed. In that case, the negative lissage will be less bad than is currently expected, but it will have to be compensated. Otherwise, we won't have an agreement between the three. It's not about an invention of mine. I have tried to make an agreement with the two Communities. Not to mention a political agreement with the government's partners. So the compensation you are concerned about must and will come. At the moment, however, I will not have any figures on it, nor will I say how many years that compensation should run, because we need to have all the data at our disposal first. We must not run the risk of developing a pénuria, neither in Flanders nor in Wallonia. It doesn't help us. To do that, we really need that dynamic land register. The Planning Committee is very enthusiastic, because these people have never had so many good figures and parameters in the past. This brings the added value of the crossover of data from the dynamic cadastre.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic107x.u79	Minister, thank you for the completeness of your answer. I think you're in very good control of the case, you know where you're going. At some point, you must continue to defend your position. That's indispensable. The future of these students and the number of doctors is at stake. It's a very important decision. I hear that the meeting will be held on March 30, 2015 and preceded by intercabinets. This meeting must be of paramount importance. We must put back on the table the agreement that was agreed a few months ago in relation to this dynamic cadastre and not wishing to achieve this negative smoothing. I am not saying that it is only your responsibility because you have implemented what you have promised. In this case, you are not responsible, but I really hope that on 30 March the regional ministers will be faced with their responsibilities and their share of the work to be done. I believe that with your strong character, you have the capacity to do so. This file can be a win-win if everyone does their job. Minister, I'll let you work until March 30, 2015 and I'll come back after Easter to try to get more information. I stress the importance of this file.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic107x.u80	For six weeks, from October 11 to the end of November, I took the time to consult with students, deans, etc.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic107x.u81	I'm not blaming you, minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic107x.u82	I made my proposal. I've never changed my mind and I'm doing what I promised to do. You can list all my statements and interviews in Flanders and Wallonia. I've always said the same thing. I've figured out a solution. We've been very inventive. That solution will have to be found; another solution is not possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic107x.u83	More precise inquiries may have to be addressed to the French Community rather than to the federal government.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic107x.u84	Madam Secretary, very recently we heard from the newspapers that there is a shortage of dentists. According to the Flemish Professional Association Dentists, the number of dentists has fallen by 4.5 % in ten years. Dentists are getting scarcer and they're getting older too. The average age is currently 55 years. Many stop or do not take new patients. An even bigger problem is that almost one in three Flemish dentists is not in agreement, which means that the standard rates are not always applied. I also hear that the number of dentists who have been deconventional or partially deconventional is increasing. The figures speak for themselves. Of the lower skilled, only 36% made an appointment at the dentist's office last year, while the higher skilled had a rate of 72 percent. It is therefore important that the dentist's price is clearly controlled. I am concerned that otherwise we will have two-speed dental care, with an increase in the health gap. So I have a few questions. You promised a dentist's cadastral equivalent to the physician's cadastral. However, you have also said that this will take some time. So I'm afraid it won't be there soon enough. If we wait years, we'll really be short of dentists. What do you think of the Dutch system whereby dentists are encouraged to unite in group practices and are also financially rewarded through assistance or practical funding? Can that system offer any relief here? Secondly, are you in favour of the training of dental care assistant as there are already a few in our country or certainly in Flanders? Thirdly, what measures will you take to encourage dentists to sign up and not to increasingly deconventional themselves in order to keep the patient's price under control?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic107x.u85	Mrs Dedry, thank you for your question. The aim is to keep access to dental care at a high level. This means, among other things, that care must be affordable and that sufficient dentists must be active. We're working on a business register. This is a necessary instrument drawn up by persons other than those engaged in dental records. However, the way of working is the same. We need such a register so that we can make effective decisions on the provision of dental care and, where appropriate, the promotion of group practices. Can I tell you that some 70 young people have started dental training in Flanders and about 700 in Wallonia? The land register should also be used to take the necessary measures in this respect. The quality of training is compromised. I have received an opinion from the Dental Council concerning the dental assistant. This is an auxiliary for the dentist who is similar to the dental hygienist in other European countries. I think I know that in the Netherlands there is even a cheerful song about the dentist. However, the council opted not to use the term oral hygienist because it would have a negative connotation. After all, the patient would no longer recognize the competence of the healthcare provider. In accordance with the advice of the Dental Council, we are therefore talking about a dental assistant who will always work on prescription from a dentist. The dentist, on whose prescription the treatment is carried out, should be available and callable during the course of the treatment. It may be possible for this to happen in the same practice. In addition to the advice of the Dental Council, my administration has made a legal analysis of the possibilities of creating this profession in accordance with the advice of the Council. This must be defined in terms of responsibility and the level of supervision. As far as the affordability of dental care is concerned, I refer to the national agreement on dental health funds, which was approved by the Council of Ministers last week. The dentomut agreement builds on findings and guidelines set out in the dental care guidance note in health insurance. The agreement includes innovative approaches aimed at making even better and more efficient use of the available financial resources within the health insurance system and at attracting dentists back to the Convention. I refer, among other things, to the process of oral care, where new refunds are introduced for people who have their teeth checked regularly, and the anti-fraud measures. I have recently taken note of the number of refusals to accede to the agreement. Unfortunately, I have to note that there was a high level of convention in 2014 and that it is being perpetuated, which I very much regret because the entry into the dentomut agreement offers tariff security to patients. I have therefore asked the National Committee on Dental Medical Funds to look at the current situation. The Committee also agreed that professional associations and insurance institutions would take short-term action in the arrondissements of Antwerp and Mechelen, where the agreement cannot enter into force at present due to a low degree of convention. If the agreement is not signed by a sufficient number of dentists, the agreement will not enter into force there. I am very concerned about that. As far as the health gap is concerned, we all know that dental care is most often delayed. There is no turning back in that respect. When the teeth disappear, it is difficult to give people a sufficiently presentable teeth again. I am not talking about the other health consequences of bad teeth. That is a great concern for me, also in the context of reducing the health gap.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic107x.u86	Madam Secretary, what is the reason why dentists are so massively deconventional? Their average age is 55 years, which means that the majority of them had been in conflict for years. What prompts them to deconvent?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic107x.u87	I don't know. It has always been a tricky point in recent years. We knew it would be dangerous in certain descriptions. That's what's happened now. In Antwerp and Mechelen, the number of covenants is too low to allow the agreement to enter into force.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic107x.u88	Madam President, Minister, paracetamol is the molecule present in a series of medications designed to treat various types of pain, such as fever or migraine. While it is already known that the use of this high-dose drug presents a danger (if hepatitis fulminant or if it is dangerous for the liver), a recent study highlights new risks associated with its long-term use. Indeed, this study points to the existence of side effects that could cause cardiovascular, gastrointestinal or renal complications. Professor Philip Conaghan of the Leeds Institute of Rheumatic & Musculoskeletal Medicine, who conducted this study, indicates that the risks associated with long-term consumption of paracetamol are higher than currently perceived by the medical community. If the percentage of risks remains relatively low, the study suggests the need for physicians who prescribe paracetamol to inform their patients of these risks. Given the great use of this type of medication and its large-scale availability, I would like to ask you a number of questions, Madam Minister. So has communication already been established with the medical community in Belgium in order to analyse the results of this study? Will the FPS Public Health offer physicians to further inform their patients about the adverse effects of this medication? At the industry level, are the various manufacturers of these medicines in good standing with regard to information on their side effects? Is there a dialogue on this issue between industry and the medical community?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic107x.u89	Mr Friart, the Federal Agency for Medicinal Products and Health Products (AFMPS) is responsible for pharmacovigilance in Belgium, i.e. monitoring the safety profile of medicinal products. Within the framework of European pharmacovigilance, Belgium acts as lead member state for paracetamol, i.e. Belgium is responsible for coordinating the monitoring of possible pharmacovigilance signals for this molecule at European level. This role involves, among other things, a monthly review of the literature on the safety of paracetamol and the analysis of the data contained in the European Pharmacovigilance Database. In this context, the AFMPS analysed the article published in the journal Annals of the Rheumatic Diseases. We believe that the article does not provide new data and that the associations found in this article between long-term paracetamol and the adverse reactions studied, as you have said, at the cardiovascular, gastrointestinal, renal or mortality levels are subject to biases that do not allow us to conclude as to the causality of paracetamol. The main limitations of this literature review are the limited number of studies that have been included in this review and the limited quality of these studies. The conclusions of the AFMPS experts will be presented to the Belgian Commission for Medicinal Products, composed of academic experts in the field of medicinal products. Since the association between the adverse reactions studied in the article and the prolonged use of paracetamol is subject to potential biases, the causal link with paracetamol is not established. Therefore, there is no need to propose a specific communication on these side effects at this stage. If this conclusion were to evolve on the basis of other information available in the future, the AFMPS would of course communicate on this subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic107x.u90	Overall, the legislation on European pharmacovigilance defines the roles and responsibilities of each of the actors with regard to pharmacovigilance, including signal detection. Any undertaking or body operating a medicinal product or product for human use shall establish a system of pharmacovigilance to ensure the collection, recording and scientific evaluation of information relating to adverse reactions, which may be due to medicinal products for the purpose of prevention and risk reduction and, if necessary, to take appropriate measures. This pharmacovigilance service shall be under the responsibility of a qualified person, who shall provide evidence of expertise in the field of pharmacovigilance. Pharmacovigilance officials must ensure compliance with the pharmacovigilance reporting obligations with the AFMPS. The service is also subject to regular pharmacovigilance inspections by AFMPS. According to the regulations, any information or advertising to professionals carried out by a company must conform to the summary of the characteristics of the product, which includes the adverse reactions of the medicinal products concerned. In this regard, I believe that good work is being done on an ongoing basis. It's always proof that paracetamol is a drug. The slogan of our action is "A drug is not a candy". Of course, there are always possible side effects for each drug, hence the importance of continued pharmacovigilance.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic107x.u91	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. It is very important to know the role that the pharmacovigilance service plays in this case. So we can be sure that paracetamol and everything connected with it is well followed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic107x.u92	As Mrs Gerkens has to go to another meeting, we will deal with item 21/2 for item 21/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic107x.u93	Madam Chair, in last week's Journal of the Physician, many pages were dedicated to managing the eHealth platform. Minister, it has been a long time since 2010, just two years after the eHealth platform was put in place, that I regularly ask Health Ministers about the management of this tool. This platform must be defended as it should be a tool at the disposal of health actors to enable the transmission of information between hospital care providers, general practitioners and others, with a view to improving patient follow-up and avoiding repeated examinations. However, it must be acknowledged that its management, via Mr Robben, managing director of eHealth, and the ASBL Smals, responsible for providing workers to eHealth, pose real concerns. The relationship between eHealth management, doctors, hospitals and patients is characterized by numerous harassments, non-consideration of decisions and, therefore, lack of confidence. In June 2012, following one of my last inquiries, Minister Onkelinx had to reframe Mr. Robben by restricting his ability to represent eHealth outside of Canada and by limiting conflict of interest situations related to privacy and case management. In fact, if this tool is indispensable, if it has existed in recent years, its development is below expectations. In my view, this is the result of the lack of trust and management difficulties I have just mentioned. In addition, I can see from the questions that it is almost impossible to know who actually works at eHealth, who works at the ASBL Smals, who performs the management and functions. When I put a parliamentary question on the subject, in general, as long as I put the question, there was mobility of workers to fill managers, followed by a change in the situation a few months later. Minister, do you know the status of eHealth staff? What are the legal requirements? What is the framework? What is the proportion of Francophones/Nerland speakers for the different functions? What has been the turnover in the last three years? In my question, I also discussed the agreement of patients and the possible willingness to change the opt-in into an opt-out. I will not go back to that, because you answered earlier. As far as financial management is concerned, it can be said that eHealth thesaurus instead of performing its tasks properly. Two examples will illustrate this. The first is the harmonisation of codification. When a kine and a doctor intervene with the same patient, they do not encode their respective performance. A budget is therefore necessary for the harmonization of these registrations. The training and information of general practitioners to help them develop their software and update their files are tasks that have been entrusted for some time, but are difficult to achieve. The related budget does not appear to be used. Then I would have liked to have some information about a rumor that is circulating right now. Mr. Robben would have asked for a room. It seems that it is alive instead of using it on an episodic basis. It's also included in eHealth's funding. The Journal du Médecin shows that the workers at last dare to express themselves – certainly anonymously. I also know that the Chairs and Vice-Chairs of the Management Committee have been alerted on several occasions, but they have never acted on these signals. There are therefore combined responsibilities in monitoring this management. I myself was called to order because I dared to denounce certain practices. Do not misunderstand my intentions: I defend the tool, but I wonder about its management. Although one is a computer, programming and database engineer, human resources and collaboration with other services fall under other jurisdictions. It is therefore a matter of taking action. I would also like to know what your intentions were in this regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic107x.u94	Madam Minister, first of all I would like to make an explicit reference to my question No. 622, which I put at the end of November. In the reply I expressed my concern that certain persons involved in the start-up group would wear a double hat. You said at the time that you would investigate that. Have you examined whether persons with a double hat are members of the working group? What were your findings and what did you do? Secondly, you have, of course, been aware of the problem. What exactly is the point of that? If the problem is correct, what actions will you take? Thirdly, how is the evaluation of that person and his work going? Should he report on his claims at fixed intervals? Since the entire course of the system is compromised by that person, we also want to know when we can expect the implementation of the eHealth platform. Has that been delayed, or can we still make the deadline? Finally, the mandate of the administrator-general is about to expire. Will that be extended?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic107x.u95	I am, of course, aware of the articles in which a number of stories and statements are made about the possible functioning of the eHealth platform in general and the functioning of the leading official in particular. In the Federal Public Office, there are procedures for the evaluation of senior officials. In addition, specific mechanisms are in place in the public social security institutions, to which the eHealth platform belongs, where joint management through the management committees plays an important role, including in the monitoring of the functioning of the institutions and their senior officials. I have every confidence in those procedures and mechanisms for monitoring and evaluation. I also have frequent contacts with all the senior officials and the chairman of the management committees. The contacts allow us to discuss the progress and achievement of the objectives and functioning of the eHealth platform. Based on my conversations, as well as regular contacts with the partners and users of the eHealth platform, I underline that I still have confidence in the leading official and his staff to accomplish his mission and the tasks of the eHealth platform. In the last three years, respectively, 5, 4 and 8 collaborators have left the eHealth platform. The staff plan provides for 40.5 part-time equivalents of which 34 are currently available. The distribution between Francophone and Dutch-speaking collaborators is 18 Francophones for 16 Dutch-speaking. There were also questions about any conflict of interest or double caps. I do not have any clues about this to date. That civil servant only gets one bet. I do not want to leave any doubt that, if there are conflicts of interest, I will act decisively. The government agreement contains ambitious objectives for the further development of eHealth in our health care. The eHealth platform plays an important role in this context. The deputy head shall report to the management committee of the eHealth platform on progress made, in general, and on the management contract in particular, on a semi-annual basis. This report, approved by the Management Committee, shows that the evolution of the eHealth platform is in line with the logic of the management contract. The eHealth platform also plays an important role in the eHealth Roadmap 2013-2018. Nevertheless, I would point out that this roadmap covers a wider scope than the eHealth platform's missions alone. Many of the actions of this roadmap are being implemented. As part of my policy note, I have planned an interim evaluation in mid-2015 to assess the status of each action in the Roadmap and to define the timetable for the coming years. The implementation of the eHealth strategy for the quality and effectiveness of patient care requires the collaboration of a wide range of political and field actors. This strategy will have a strong impact on administrative and medical methods and processes in the area of health care and health care. To gain the support of all concerned, it is very important to build a climate of trust. As the federal minister responsible for eHealth health care, I will of course ensure that my administrations respect and encourage the principles of open and constructive collaboration.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic107x.u96	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. You did not reply about eHealth's financial management and the mobilization or the theasurization of its means to fulfill its missions. I'll check myself because we have access to his accounts. For the rest, I defend this tool and I would like it to develop real partnerships with general practitioners, hospitals, Walloon and Brussels networks and Flemish actors. We must emerge from the illusion that all data exchanges take place. That's not the case. I would like to draw your attention to the difficulties in managing human resources within this platform. One of the reasons why this tool has not developed is because there are concerns of this nature between the managing official and the actors on the ground. In three years, seventeen people have left the platform while the work is very interesting; they are skilled computer scientists and programmers motivated by their work. It would be worthwhile for you to analyze the situation. It is true that the management committee plays an evaluation and oversight role, but I think you could conduct more intensive investigations.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic107x.u97	I would like to make a small correction in my speech. I mentioned 34 part-time equivalents, but they were 34 full-time equivalents, the abbreviation (FTE) being the same.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic107x.u98	It is not, of course, because someone receives an official wager, he or she cannot have an interest in other sectors. You have not completely removed my concerns in this respect. Nor have I received an answer to my question as to whether the mandate will be extended.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic107x.u99	The evaluation is scheduled to take place in three months. This is accompanied by certain plowings in an administration. A self-evaluation must be carried out first. Then an accompanying agency will be appointed, mostly Accor. Then there will be an evaluation by me on the basis of the well-founded report and the self-evaluation. It goes without saying that I will not anticipate that. That would be fundamentally unfair, three months before the evaluation takes place. I've had some experience with evaluations, and I've had to do a lot of evaluations for my other administrations. The evaluation will therefore be carried out in the same, very thorough manner. I will not anticipate it. I'm evaluating the official on the basis of his functioning in my administration. Rumors and stories about a person's private life are not of the utmost importance to me as far as they do not affect the functioning of the official. This is part of the respect for the privacy of the officials, who have the right to organise their lives as they wish. I'd like everyone to maintain that deontology.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic107x.u100	Madam President, Minister, there has been a lot to do over the past week about whether or not there is a shortage of places in the psychiatry of children. Especially as a result of the 16-year-old girl who ended up in an adult's bed in the light of a treatment that should have happened in the psychiatry of children. I don't want to have the discussion here today. There has been a game in the press over the last few days about whether there are places too short or too many. Someone always showed up to testify that it was sister or something. Madam Secretary, I would like to have a discussion with you today on the issue. We are all well aware of the problem. It is not just up to you when we take up the reports of the past few years. Madam Secretary, perhaps the shortage was already there in your time. It is a debate that often comes back, namely the debate on medicines in medical care, both for adults and for children. It is a discussion that we had very often with Minister Onkelinx during the previous legislature. Everyone here knows that things must be done, and that children and young people are a very vulnerable group in this area. There is a great deal to be done in this area and a great deal has to be done. Over the last few years, we have had the whole discussion here about the model of mental health care that we are evolving towards, namely residential care, in conjunction with outpatient care. We have set up the mobile teams for the adults, the article 107. It was very soon confirmed in both federal and regional policy that something had to be done very urgently for children and young people too. Both residential and in the context of chronic care, crisis care and outpatient care outside the institutions had to be dealt with. Madam Minister, at the end of 2012 a statement from your predecessor was drawn up in the framework of the Inter-Ministerial Conference and in cooperation with the region's regions, stating that the government also wants to work with the care circuits for children and young people. It also wants to work partly in the same way as Article 107 for adults. A guide would be provided and 34 actions would be prepared within the framework of the World Health Organisation's mental health objectives. Madam Minister, I understand that the Inter-Ministerial Conference, which you mentioned, was due to take place at the end of March 2015, would also have talks with your fellow Members from the region, or that this would have happened. My question is as follows: how do we proceed? I know it's about a shared competence. Everything that still has to do with psychiatric hospitals and with whether or not to cut down and bet is still federal matter. All that belongs to the further implementation is regional competence. I have also read the note on children and young people, which also includes around five functions, mainly on screening, diagnosis and treatment, but also on research. Madam Secretary, how do we proceed? I'm very much involved in mental health care in my province, more specifically with the psychiatric hospitals. Recently I saw good studies showing that a high prevalence is not exceptional in young people. The same figures apply to adults. The more than two million young people in our country also seem to have a 20% concern. That could be through middle use, not feeling good, bullying. The studies also show that 5% or 6% of our young people actually need specialised mental health care. This means that they often need long-term treatment. I only know the figures for my province, but I know that today in West Flanders only one in five young people can be answered. Due to a lack of space, only one in five young people can be provided with specialised care. This means that four out of five young people end up somewhere else today, among other things in the first line and receiving fragmentary care. That's a problem, isn't it? By the way, 3 percent of hospital beds in the GGZ go to children and young people. Madam Secretary, I know this is a shared competence, but I ask you what can I expect from the federal level? Will the guide containing the 34 actions be further developed at the Inter-Ministerial Conference on 30 March? Over the last few days, you have pointed out in the press the 1.2 million allocated to the network coordinators. There would be one per province, and EUR 100 000 has been allocated to coordinate. Coordination is necessary, you have a point. The question is whether, in addition to this coordination, there will be additional resources for out-of-patient care, for outreach projects? In addition to what you have already announced, will additional resources go to children and young people? Budgetary control is in full swing, Madam Secretary. I suspect you have a list of savings, but also a list of items on which you would like to spend additional resources. Are those resources planned? I've already asked you if there are resources planned for extra beds. I hear there's a demand for that, especially for A-beds, K-beds and T-beds. At the same time, I hear there is a demand for more outpatient care. According to the sector, there can only be additional resources if the number of hospital beds is reduced and the number of hospital beds is re-used in the outpatient care sector. Madam Minister, I believe that the maps are on the table and that in the coming period we can only examine what actions we are going to take and, from that point of view, what budgets we are going to link to them.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic107x.u101	Madam Secretary, I am largely in agreement with my colleague. Given the advanced hour, I will not repeat everything she has said. However, I would like to add that the majority of the sector agrees that there is a shortage of places. It is not just about not putting resources in the right place. We can't just take that up with coordinators. I agree with the questions put by my colleague. On 13 January, you already gave me an answer to a question on this issue in connection with another poignant case. How far along are you with that guide? When will the coordinators be able to get to work? Is the 1.2 million euros that would be distributed in the first half of 2015 already the route? Are you going to take advantage of the occasion of the Inter-Ministerial Conference to place this issue high on the agenda? Do you intend to ask for an extra budget for mental health in the framework of budgetary control? For me, it may also be a greater use of outpatient care, but 6% of the total budget is a lean animal, especially in the psychiatry of children.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic107x.u102	Mrs Muylle, Mrs Dedry, thank you for raising this subject in a very nuanced manner. I knew the mental health care in our country was sick. That is why I have included it as a priority for the elections in my healthcare plan, including suggestions for policies at the various levels, both regional and federal. Now that I myself have a policy function on that domain, I know that it is much worse than I ever thought. From the outset, also strengthened by the provisions we have put together in the coalition agreement, I have made it absolutely a priority to develop mental health care and better organise capacity in this area, especially for children and young people. A number of problems in terms of capacity have been identified, for example in the areas of crisis relief or outpatient care. The harrowing situations therefore appear in the press. From the beginning of my term of office, I took the bull by the horns, so to speak, and took various initiatives. In cooperation with the Communities, my staff are finalizing the guide to a new mental health policy for children and young people. The purpose of this guide is to define the lines of reference for a mental health policy for children and young people that seeks integration and continuity in the actions of all concerned care actors. It is necessary to eliminate the existing gaps in the supply of aid. We have paid a great deal of attention to the fact that the fragmentation of powers should not make a difference to the patient. There should be a seamless transition between residential assistance and aftercare, a seamless transition between prevention, diagnosis and the provision of the necessary assistance. In the end, the citizens who depend on this kind of aid do not have a message that politics has shredded those powers. It attaches great importance to the possibility of keeping children and young people in their own living and learning environment for as long as possible. Residential recordings will of course always be necessary if they are really necessary. Such a diverse range of assistance is also best achieved here by networks of healthcare actors. The Inter-Ministerial Conference is scheduled for 30 March. This guide is on the agenda of this Inter-Ministerial Conference. We have worked hard to get this guide approved at the forthcoming Inter-Ministerial Conference. The implementation of the new mental health policy for children and young people will require joint efforts from all relevant authorities and all relevant sectors and actors. In order to shape the networks of care actors, there is also a need for more consultation and coordination. In order to ensure this coordination for the sector, I committed an amount of 1.2 million by the end of 2014. These funds will be transferred as soon as possible to the hospitals which were responsible for financing the mental health consultation platforms and which became state Matter after the state reform. The allocation is automatic to the 12 hospitals concerned. However, this does not mean that these hospitals will actually be responsible for the concrete implementation of the coordination of the networks we need for children and young people. I hope that the guide will be approved at the Inter-Ministerial Conference. We have certainly worked well with the Communities for the preparation and preparation of the guide. At the same time, we are trying to agree on how coordination will be completed and how it will be implemented on the ground. The adoption is scheduled for 30 March. The target for the full implementation of the guide is at the end of this year. This isn't nothing. If you know what this means for a province, then you also know what this means for the whole country. It is true that coordination alone will not fill the gaps. Additional resources will be requested for prevention, for outpatient care and for beds. I believe that additional resources will be needed both at the federal level and at the federal level to implement the national plan as described in the guide. On the basis of the funds released, work will be carried out on the deployment of a series of priority actions, including the promotion of mobile outreach teams, which will be able to assist in the transition to residential inclusion and flow. It is therefore not only a matter of more beds, but also of better linking the stages before and after the recording. There's a legitimate big question because of the patients. This is a domain that has been treated stepmotherly for years. This also proves the budget of 6%. In that respect, I still have a very long list of resources to use. I'm glad to find you both as a partner in that. This is a very important area of health care. Mrs Muylle has given the figures for her province, but many people throughout the country need the right reception, referral and help in this area. Some situations are harrowing. There's a lot of work on the shelf on mental health. Step by step, we will try to change the picture in this respect by the end of the legislature. You can count on it. I'll go for it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic107x.u103	Thank you, Minister, for your positive reply. You are quite right to outline the problem. In the light of the coalition agreement, the issue was discussed for a long time and the needs were clearly addressed. We know that huge budgetary efforts are needed to correct everything. I am pleased that this issue will be on the agenda in March and that you want to be fully involved in the roll-out of the actions by the end of the year. You also rightly and specifically mention the outreach teams, which can provide rapid profits. In the short term, they can do this. You have my support. You must also speak during budgetary control. You say you want to start rolling out this year, but then additional resources will be needed, also in the context of the 1.2 million already going to hospitals to replace the consultation platforms. The sector is not waiting for pilot projects and for temporary resources, but for good measures and for structural funding that can go on for years. I call for additional resources to be allocated to this in the context of budgetary control. I'll argue that through my channels, too.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic107x.u104	I do not have the same channels as my honourable colleague, but I will do my best to do so from my part. It is incredible how many e-mails I have received about this from the sector, through the grassroots. So the problem is very much alive. Madam Minister, I would ask you to put this at the top of your list of priorities during budgetary control and to provide an additional budget for this. I'll hold you to your good intentions. I'll keep an eye on your timing, too.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic107x.u105	I take the willingness of my fellow Members to invest more in mental health care to the negotiating table. But I am not just with a wish list and we must also be realistic. Better coordination certainly has its merits. Then we can see where the needs are, where more investment needs to be made, where there may be a need to change beds. That is also possible. Of course more money can certainly help. Those are all things we're taking with us. You say you've been getting a lot of e-mails in the last few weeks. I think we have all heard the same stories from other people for several years. So there's a big emergency in the patients. There is also a great deal of willingness on the part of carers in this sector to pursue a different policy e with greater cooperation and coordination. The willingness to cooperate is therefore very great. We will certainly continue with this. We have really done our best with the guides to the next Inter-Ministerial Conference.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic107x.u106	We must also examine the possible change today, Madam Minister. Today there is a care path for depression and alcohol abuse, in which we are very often dealing with young people. There are many patients with a family problem who also end up in other beds, especially in C- and D-beds, with a different pathology.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic107x.u107	I said that, but I dare not repeat it, because then I get the wind ahead.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic107x.u108	It's true.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic107x.u109	That's one of the problems. I'm not pointing fingers at anyone. Some people think I'm looking at them, but that's not true at all. We know from the analyses that not all patients end up in the right beds. Of course, things will continue to go wrong, because that's how they keep the other patients out of those beds.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic107x.u110	Often one comes in with, for example, a liver cirrhosis or kidney stones, and one quickly sees that there is no family problem. The liaison function in the hospitals is extremely important. As you rightly say, there is still a great deal to be done.
