ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic161x.u1	The questions are now on our agenda. Mrs. Smaers, are you ready to start, just back from Washington and already on the Finance Committee?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic161x.u2	Mr President, Minister, I have a first question on the committee's agenda on the taxation of charges. I understand that the tax authorities are currently carrying out targeted checks in connection with this tax. The plaques shall be based on sticky letters which are visible to the public and the surface of which is equal to or greater than 1 m2. The Court of Cassatie gives the following definition to the concept of a letter of credence: each fixed or mobile means of visual advertising or publication, whether or not durable, by any process created. I understand that, in the context of these targeted controls, the tax authorities have also made an assessment of ballooners and their advertising on their balloons. The advertising on those balloons flying in the air can be seen from far on the ground. The subject matter of these taxes or adhesives is apparently interpreted quite widely. After all, the tax authorities also consider the temporary advertising 'in fact,' it is not permanent 'invisible' on small areas on the balloons, as advertising covered by the sticking tackle. For the Belgian ballooners, of course, this has a significant negative impact on their competitiveness. Apparently, they are already struggling in Belgium with regard to some other countries, such as the Dutch ballooners. Apparently, there's serious competition. Belgium is already having a hard time finding Belgian balloon sailors. I've heard there aren't so many more. Again, this tax is a difficult one for them. I therefore have the following questions. Firstly, do you recognise that Belgian ballooners suffer from a competitive disadvantage as a result of the subjugation to that charge for docking? What initiatives will you take to harmonise the tax treatment of balloons within the Benelux and the European Union? Secondly, can you confirm that the stickers are only payable once per balloon, regardless of any transfer of the balloon? Can you confirm that the repair of a balloon is not taxable? Thirdly, can you confirm that a balloon sailor or balloon company is a priori not an entrepreneur or an enterprise of attraction? Finally, can you confirm that the tax is no longer due when the advertiser has been declared bankrupt?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic161x.u3	Mrs Smaers, first of all I would like to point out that the publicity on balloons has already been subject to this tax since the introduction of the tax on docking. The charge for placing the goods on the market is linked to the place where the advertising is carried out, so that there can be no competitive disadvantage. The tax is indeed only payable once, regardless of the number of times a balloon takes off. A pure repair does not, of course, result in any new tax. The tax is jointly and severally due by the person who has an interest in the publicity and by the entrepreneur of employment. It is theoretically possible that a balloon sailor or a balloon company has neither qualities. The charge for placing the poster may be payable by the person from whom the poster is issued, by the owner or owner of the place where the poster is placed, by the operator of the poster or by the manufacturer of the posters. A declaration within the bankruptcy will always be possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic161x.u4	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I understand that the place is the criterion for levying the tax in itself. The joint and several liability of the posters is for both the advertiser and the user. That might offer prospects for the balloon sailor. He remains in sight but can recover it from the advertiser of the advertising himself. In any case, I thank you for your reply and I will hear whether the answer is satisfactory in the air balloon industry. After that, I may return to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic161x.u5	Debates of the European Parliament 3617 by Mr Verherstraeten is put a little later.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic161x.u6	Mr Minister, my question concerns the interconnection and exchange of information between the Flemish tax databases and the federal databases. At the end of March, a hearing with the administrator-general of VLABEL was held in the Flemish Parliament in the Finance and Budget Committee. He spoke there about the issue of insufficient information access to the federal databases and this after the tax and financial powers acquired by VLABEL following the sixth state reform. During that meeting in the Flemish Parliament, the administrator-general of VLABEL expressly said: 'I would like to take a moment to comment on a Minister's remark that the operation should not be underestimated. With the purchasing committees there are almost 470 people from the federal administration to the Flemish Tax Administration. You should also know that we have had to rebuild completely in a year and a half, because we have received virtually nothing from the federal level of software or applications, literally nothing. As far as access to databases is concerned, too, we are almost completely closed down. The federal administration won't allow us on their systems, with no tax officer, even if it's their former officials. We are not allowed to enter any application of the federal administration. So you must understand that we have to rebuild everything completely from scratch in the Flemish tax administration. What the administrator-general of VLABEL raises in committee defies all imagination. It cannot be the intention that the administrations work separately from each other, while at Flemish level they do almost the same as before at federal level. They cannot be expected to have to rebuild their systems and their information from scratch, nor to be able to access the data of the federal tax administration, which they do need. I also hear that this leads to delays in the case files of ground acquisition. They cannot go to the databases of the purchasing committees, which now also fall under Flemish competence. This leads to serious delays. What we have always assumed is that what Flanders is doing is doing better, it does not prove to be the case: they cannot move faster to ground acquisition and purchases because there are conflicts in the information systems and they cannot get into the federal information systems. Hence my questions. First of all, do you recognise the problem raised? Secondly, will you try to create some openness in the exchange of data? If so, would this mean that an agreed official, administrator of the regional tax authorities, may and can access the federal databases of the FPS Finance? Thirdly, how do you think more openness could be created between the FPS Finance and the regional tax authorities? Finally, will you instruct your administration to work on pooling and sharing ICT data with regional tax administrations? What is your vision of cooperation and sharing and exchanging information?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic161x.u7	Mrs Smaers, let me get this straight. The federal government systematically conducts the fifth and sixth state reform loyally and in close consultation with the Regions. That principle should also be made clear. Since the beginning of 2012, therefore, before the acquisition of inheritance and some registration rights as a result of the fifth state reform was officially served by the Flemish Region, bilateral discussions have already been held on the issues you mentioned. That consultation resulted in two protocols and a gentlemen's agreement between myself and colleague Turtelboom of the Flemish Region at the end of 2014. Maybe we should talk about an agreement between gentleman and gentleman. A cooperation protocol was also concluded on 15 May 2014 with regard to the transfer of the purchasing committees under the sixth state reform. In addition, a cooperation agreement was concluded between the Federal Government and the Regions on the "Fundamental Coordination Structure for Patrimonium Information', which was confirmed by the respective parliaments and is therefore fully, fully and fully in force. As stipulated in the protocols on inheritance tax and registration duty, the necessary extracts were delivered to VLABEL in a timely and digital manner by the federal government. Those extracts shall contain the open files on inheritance duty, infringements of registration and inheritance duty, return records, control of favor regimes such as modest residences and the like, plus the abattoirs, professional salesmen, and so on. Where necessary, the paper files were also transferred. Since the beginning of this year, the notarial documents are immediately sent to VLABEL in PDF format and with the metadata. This is also the case for documents submitted for registration on paper. My administration effectively developed the digital exchange for VLABEL in 2014 regarding the deceased's property. In May of this year, the digital exchange of sales prices will be made available through a similar application. Finally, the FPS Finance has taken the necessary measures to ensure continuous service provision. Pending the operationality of regional web services, additional temporary and labour-intensive measures were developed so that VLABEL could continue to perform its tasks properly. The transitional measures provided for have recently been extended to 30 June of this year.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic161x.u8	Mr Minister, I hear from your answer that cooperation is indeed being used, but yesterday I received a phone call that showed that questions still remain on the Flemish side of the exchange. We want to speed up the exchange and federal support of VLABEL, in particular with regard to purchasing committees and ground information. So I would once again like to draw your attention to the fact that it seems that things are not quite as they should be. It is appropriate that you put your administration behind the file, so that the right exchange and support does indeed take place. I understand from your answer that all the right instructions are being given and that it should indeed be done on the ground. However, I also hear that there would seem to be still problems.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic161x.u9	The more specific information you can provide about where things go wrong or crash, the more targeted the questions can be asked or comments can be made.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic161x.u10	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Blanchart's 3742 was converted into a written question. We now welcome Mrs Van Hoof, who is from the Foreign Affairs Committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic161x.u11	Mr President, I have two further questions on the agenda, but I am also expected to take part in the Committee on Business and Business in order to take part in the discussion of a draft law. Could I ask my remaining questions now?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic161x.u12	Yeah, at least if the other members agree? [[Assent]] Mrs Smaers, you can ask your questions, but try to be as concise as possible, because other members also have to go to other committees.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic161x.u13	Mr Minister, my twelfth question concerns the tax shelter and the starter discount that I read in the notifications of the Council of Ministers of 3 April 2015. The attached report contains a number of references to a start-up discount. The concept of microcompany is also included. A number of measures were proposed on the tax relief for shareholders or natural persons investing in a microcompany or in an SME. It was also stipulated that, as a business manager, a start-up would be excluded from a tax reduction, as well as managers working with a management company. In that context, reference was also made to thresholds for the applicability of that tax reduction. I note that a number of conditions were added to the notifications of the Council of Ministers on 3 April 2015 with a start-up discount and tax shelter, and I would like to ask you a few questions about that. What could be the threshold that was announced? Are these turnover figures, the number of employees or share rates? What is meant by partial repayment in those terms? Is this determined on the basis of the number of years in which the participation was maintained and then offset by the amount of the initial tax that would have to be paid if there had been no tax reduction? How will the concept of a management company be defined in those measures? Will this be made sufficiently conclusive, especially with regard to the advantages of that start-up discount in relation to the use of a management company? Is it also taken into account for managers of such start-ups who are in good faith and acquire shares but are not able to benefit from the tax relief provided for in those conditions, even if they have no or not sufficient personal capacity to provide their food? Finally, what is the intended purpose of the measure? Are certain sectors covered by this measure and by this favour? Or does this apply to all sectors of tax shelters and start-up discounts? We have already heard from Minister De Croo that he wants to make use of the tax shelter system in the digital economy. Do you foresee this also for wider sectors or is the measure only intended for the Digital Economy plan?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic161x.u14	Mrs Smaers, unfortunately I will have to give a short answer. Budgetary control did indeed decide to take measures in favour of start-ups, with the aim of mobilising private capital for the purchase of risk capital to unlisted SMEs. However, the subject is still at the stage of further discussion and refinement within the government, through the usual channels, and so I am currently unable to give a precise answer to almost any of your questions. The draft will be submitted and discussed in this committee as part of the Programme Act.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic161x.u15	As part of the program law? Good. Then it'll be a while.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic161x.u16	Perhaps I should have intervened earlier to spare you that long question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic161x.u17	Mr President, Mrs Smaers, the same applies here. At the moment it is further refined and aligned. The Programme Act will clearly define what is meant and how it should be defined.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic161x.u18	Thank you, Minister, for your brief reply. Since it seems that there is not much to say because this matter is still under discussion, I will not ask any more questions for the time being and wait for the draft programme law to be discussed. I take it this is something for the next few weeks?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic161x.u19	That will be before the end of May.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic161x.u20	Minister, in April Oxfam published a report on the incorrect and undesirable use of funds that should serve development objectives. The report, you are probably familiar with, is entitled The Suffering of Others and states that the International Finance Corporation (IFC), which is the World Bank's private investment vehicle, has forwarded no less than 36 billion dollars to several third parties in recent years. What has become the ultimate destination of these resources is not always fully clear. Several NGOs, including 11.11.11, have already pointed out in the past that the lack of transparency of similar constructions and assignments does far more harm than good. Everyone knows the examples of land robbery and the fact that people have to relocate as a result of global banking projects. Since the 1990s, the World Bank Group has been expected to ensure that its investments comply with certain social and environmental standards, that the projects financed do not harm and that there is a relevant development impact. The same goes, of course, for the International Finance Corporation, the World Bank subsidiary, which provides loans to the private sector. The practices of the IFC should be of grave concern to our country, as a major shareholder. The problematic projects are mainly in the form of loans which the IFC does not make available directly but through financial companies such as micro-credit companies and hedge funds, the so-called financial intermediaries. The 2013 Compliance Advisor/Ombudsman (CAO) report showed that the IFC barely knows whether its investments help people or harm them or whether they contribute to poverty reduction, which is ultimately the World Bank's objective. It is also alarming that, according to a leaked survey among staff members, less than half of the staff felt that the World Bank considered development results to be more important than the volume of transactions. This has to do with the long-established corporate culture of staff incentives, which rewards, for example, the rapid realization of turnover rather than the follow-up to social and environmental standards. What would you be like in that case? So, Minister, I would like to ask you the following questions. First of all, what is your response to Oxfam's report? What is your response to the collective agreement report on IFC investment through financial intermediaries? What concrete steps have you and your administration taken since the publication of the report to address this? Secondly, do you agree that greater transparency with regard to the IFC projects, which are carried out through these financial intermediaries, is an important requirement? If so, what specific guidelines and assignments will you give to your administration and to the Belgian representative? Thirdly, will you support the question to the IFC to release relevant contract information? I am referring here to information on contractual obligations, liability and, where appropriate, sanctions relating to compliance with the IFC performance standards and to informing the IFC in good time of developments that may occur on the ground as a result of projects which are negative and do not help the people. Fourthly, will you urge the IFC to temporarily halt investment in high-risk projects until acceptable systems for identifying and managing risk derivatives are developed and installed? Fifthly, as far as staff incentives are concerned, I believe that greater transparency is needed in this respect. After all, they have an important place in this problem. What is your position on the management of the World Bank? Can steps be taken for improvement? Do you believe that the IFC should develop an action plan to bring about much-needed changes in the institutional structure, culture and staff incentives? Do you believe that this action plan should be made public?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic161x.u21	Mr President, Mrs Van Hoof, as regards your first question, the International Financial Corporation, with its specific focus on the private sector, is making an important contribution to achieving the dual objective of the World Bank, in particular the eradication of extreme poverty and the promotion of shared prosperity. Through its projects through financial intermediaries, it provides access to basic financial services and capital for millions of individuals, self-employed persons and enterprises, one of the main pillars of the World Bank's overall strategy. A report by the compliance advisor, the World Bank Ombudsman, showed in 2013 that a number of projects funded by the IFC through these FIFAs have indeed encountered significant problems, including social impact and/or environmental impact of a number of projects. I therefore agree with the concerns raised by this report. Following this report, the Belgian representative on the board of directors of the IFC discussed the issue extensively with the management of the IFC. The IFC then presented a comprehensive action plan on its activities through FIs, a plan approved by the Committee on Development Effectiveness. The organisation has committed itself, among other things, to developing more effective systems for managing the social and environmental risks associated with projects through FIs, to be more selective in the selection of partners and private funds working together and to be stricter in the evaluation of those partners. This year, cooperation with several partners was already discontinued which failed to comply with the social and environmental standards imposed. The Action Plan is still in full implementation. My administration, and in particular the Belgian representative on the board of directors of the IFC, are following the implementation of the action plan in a constructive but critical way. As far as your second question is concerned, I agree that increased transparency regarding the cooperation of the IFC with the FIFAs is desirable. In view of the large number of FIs, this requires more clear general guidelines and procedures and closer cooperation with FIs in their implementation. The IFC Action Plan provides not only for an accurate follow-up of the FIs, but also for enhanced cooperation between the IFC and those FIs on the management of environmental risks and social risks associated with the projects being carried out. This is in line with the recommendations made explicitly by the Belgian representative in this respect. I come to your third question. The World Bank's disclosure policy approved by the World Bank's Board of Governors, as well as the current rules on the protection of confidential data limit the information that can be released. It should be borne in mind that the activities of the IFC are located in the private sector where the unrestricted release of all contractual information would be detrimental to the undertakings and institutions operating in competitive markets concerned. The non-confidential information is currently already shared by the IFC with the Governing Board. To your fourth question, I can answer that the IFC makes an important contribution to the development of the private sector in developing countries, including and especially in countries where sub-optimal market conditions, such as a lack of available capital, severely limit the development of well-functioning markets. Taking risks is inherent in entrepreneurship and therefore also in private development projects. I believe that it is appropriate for the IFC to better identify the risks and work actively with the FIS to avoid the potentially harmful effects of projects. Finally, as regards your fifth question, as indicated in the answer to the first question, the IFC is currently fully working on the implementation of the action plan which seeks to address in a thorough and decisive manner the shortcomings identified in the report drawn up by the compliance advisor or the World Bank Ombudsman. Furthermore, the relevant documents and presentations relating to this action plan can be consulted extensively on the World Bank website.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic161x.u22	Thank you, Minister, for your detailed reply. Of course, the answer dates from not after the Oxfam report but after what the collective agreement said about it. I do not know whether, on the basis of Oxfam's new data, there have been adjustments to the Belgian representation?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic161x.u23	I'm gonna have to check it out.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic161x.u24	That was actually also a specific question because Oxfam's report dates back to 2015 while I suspect the action plan dates back to 2013 or 2014. It is therefore important to look at whether there is any new data that will lead to this action plan being revised. That's a first thing. Since there are a lot of resources going to the World Bank, USD 1.2 billion in taxpayers' money, it is also necessary that these public funds can always be tested democratically. One can, of course, always screen things that have to do with competitiveness that must always be between companies, without releasing certain items. However, I think that we need to go a lot further there, even internally, in order to increase this transparency. After all, it cannot be that even the IFC does not know the impact of certain projects on the ground. After all, it is a development organisation that must know what will happen in the field with these resources. It must also carry out internal evaluations with its resources, which is expected of every development organisation. The Belgian NGOs are closely monitored for what they are doing. I suspect that it should also be possible for an organisation such as the World Bank to look into, with its representatives, how concrete projects to which public funds are spent are going. Moreover, it is also the question of Belgian NGOs such as 11.11.11 who are themselves closely monitored for what they are doing, in order to do so also for the public funds that go to multilateral and international organisations which apparently do not have to answer to their expectations. My question is to work on transparency and evaluation criteria, which are perhaps now contained in the action plan, even though Oxfam seems to have some questions there and to consider whether further work can be done on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic161x.u25	Mr President, Minister, the press has recently echoed the misadventure experienced by more than 700 Belgian savers who were victims of a fraud involving a total amount of 250 million euros. These savers had invested their savings with the promise of a high return on foreign life insurance purchased from a Turnhout insurance office, namely Cubex Investment Fund, Irish Life or Excell Life. These investments eventually gave nothing and led to the loss of huge sums of money for the investors concerned. In view of this situation, the question can be raised of the quality of the prudential supervision prior to the placing on the market of this financial product and of all those of the same type. Minister, what information do you have about this fraud file? How many investors have been victims of this scam? What is the total amount that has been lost? What were the insurance products concerned? Do you confirm the information cited? Had these life insurance products been subject to screening, approval and/or sales authorisation by the Banking, Financial and Insurance Commission (CBFA), if it was still competent, or by the Autorité des services et marchés financiers (FSMA), depending on the date of sale of the products? What was the result of this? Do you confirm that the products concerned or some of them have been banned for sale in their country of origin and in other countries such as France or the Netherlands? If so, how is it possible that they were allowed to sell at home? Is the responsibility of the FSMA, or of the CBFA if it was still competent, not incurred in this case? What are the means used in Belgium to combat this type of scam? Should they not be strengthened? Is it not appropriate to put this issue on the agenda of a forthcoming ECOFIN meeting and to propose a revision of the directives on the control of insurance products?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic161x.u26	Mr Gilkinet, the financial product in question is a life insurance contract linked to one or more investment funds. Branch 23 is the insurance counterpart of sicavs usually distributed by banks. As is the case for a sicav, insurance premiums in branch 23 are placed in shares, bonds, real estate or other authorized assets. The policyholder takes the investment risk itself in branch 23 because its capital fluctuates according to the benefits of the selected funds without prejudice to the possible risk of fraud. In this case, Irish and Luxembourg insurers offered insurance contracts related to the Cubex Investment Fund, located in the Cayman Islands. According to my information, the minimum amount to be invested in this fund was set at EUR 250,000, indicating that the fund was not intended to be marketed to the general public. Moreover, wrongly or rightly, the European legislator has severely limited the supervisory powers of the competent authorities in the case of the distribution of life insurance contracts. Neither the supervisory authority of the home Member State nor that of the host Member State may establish a systematic control system and no system of notification to the national authorities of products sold in their territory is provided for. The 2002 Life Insurance Directive also provides for this provision, which has unfortunately been included in the current Solvency II Directive. It follows that the products concerned were not approved in any way by FSMA, being marketed in Belgium under the freedom to provide services. The Belgian Government has already called for the development of the European Life Insurance Directive in this area and for the creation of a level playing field for all financial products with comparable economic characteristics. However, so far no decisive support has been given for an amendment of the Solvency II Directive – and I regret that. This approach differs considerably from the usual control approach to financial products as exercised in Belgium by FSMA. Thus, in the field of sicavs, each sicav must be registered with the FSMA and is obliged to publish a key investor information document, which must be approved by the FSMA or notified to the FSMA in advance. This document explains the different aspects of the fund in a simple and understandable language. The distributor of a sicav is obliged to submit this document before the customer invests. I asked FSMA to organise a consultation with Belgian insurers on how best to prevent such cases, taking into account the regulatory constraints mentioned above.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic161x.u27	Mr Minister, you have not given me any information on the specific case, but what you are telling me is clear enough for us to agree on the fact that there is a gap in European law, and therefore in Belgian law, in the field of life insurance, in this case life insurance linked to a financial product. It is therefore more a financial product than a life insurance as normally understood and there is a huge risk for those who invest in it. The relevant European directive should be amended. I can only encourage you to put this issue on the agenda of a forthcoming ECOFIN summit. In the meantime, I think that investors should be informed more correctly. Regardless of the European Directive, it seems to me that the authorities, the FSMA in this case, can inform potential investors that these products have not been subject to prior control and approval. If the consultation you are announcing between the FSMA and the insurers could at least lead to more transparency and prior information, it would be a step forward. This shows that there is still work to be done in this area and in the fight against speculation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic161x.u28	Mr. Chair, Minister, the federal government has just renewed the composition of the Anticipated Decisions Service (ADS). One of your employees thus takes over the presidency of the service. The remaining seats are allocated to personalities from the other three parties comprising the majority of the Government. It is a service whose missions are sensitive – the issue has already been discussed in the context of the first item on the agenda of our committee today – as demonstrated by the investigation launched by the European Commission in relation to certain rules for multinationals or by the Special Commission "TAXE" of the European Parliament. In this context, the selection of ADS officials is of particular importance. I would therefore like to take stock with you of the modalities of this selection and its consequences. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that I cannot be suspected of wanting to defend one or the other person who would not have had access to the function in question. What interests me is governance issues. Minister, can you give us more information on these six appointments? What was the nature of the replacement contract? Were they mandated? Did they benefit from a fixed-term or indefinite contract? Will the predecessors receive a disqualification allowance or notice? What amount, if any, will this amount be? What criteria have been used, in particular in terms of competencies for the appointment of the new members of the ADS Executive Committee? What will be the impact of these designations on the organization and operation of the ADS? Have any new objectives been set, in particular in the context of ECOFIN's work on the automatic exchange of information on the rulings? Will an explicit mandate regime be put in place for these or other equivalent functions in the federal public service? I conclude by telling you that we are playing hide-and-seek, but that we are not formally part of a mandate regime here. In doing so, this type of political appointment is problematic. If you want to put in place a mandate regime, make it clear, which I do not think is the case here.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic161x.u29	Mr Gilkinet, the Council of Ministers of 3 April has indeed approved the new composition of the College of the Anticipated Decisions Service (SDA) in tax matters. The royal decrees designating the selected candidates were signed by the King and entered into force on 1 May 2015. The members of the SDA College in tax matters are appointed for a period of five years on the basis of Article 2 of the Royal Decree of 2004 concerning the creation of the SDA in tax matters within the SPF Finances. Since the term of appointment of the members of the ADS College is limited to five years, a disqualification or notice allowance is not provided at the end of their appointment. The criteria to be met by the candidates were set out in the call for candidates to serve as a member of the SDA's board of directors in tax matters, published in the Moniteur belge on 19 February 2015. The designations are intended to ensure the continuity of the operation of the service and are therefore not in line with the possible new objective for this service. At present, it is not envisaged to make any amendments to the Royal Decree in question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic161x.u30	Minister, I take note of the fact that the forms have been respected, that there has been a call for applications, that there has been a royal order. Nevertheless, in view of the label of the designated persons - the chairman of the ruling commission comes from your firm after having passed through the private sector - you will not prevent me from thinking that the choice was first and foremost political! Given the specificity and sensitivity of the role of the ruling in our country, given the international context and the discussions that you are also conducting within the ECOFIN framework, I believe that, beyond respect for the form and rules of appointment, you could have made wiser and more prudent choices and taken advantage of these appointments to advance the ruling service in the sense of what is regularly highlighted when it is heard here in the Finance Committee. I am thinking in particular of the transparency of the decisions taken and the cooperation of the ruling department with the rest of the tax administration in order to clarify elements of the legislation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic161x.u31	Mr Gilkinet, the person in question was detached from the FPS Finances in my firm and did not come at all from the private sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic161x.u32	Minister, I apologize for this inaccuracy, which does not remove the rest of my remarks.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic161x.u33	In the past, there have also been appointments of people who belonged to other party ideologies. That wasn't a problem in the old days. I don't want to defend anything or anyone here. We're in Belgium and we'll always be part of it. (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic161x.u34	I don't speak about names, but there are other appointments...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic161x.u35	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I shall be brief. My question indeed deals with VAT for occasional restaurant and catering services of sports clubs, youth clubs and so on. Mr President, I would like to refer to Rule 21a of the Rules of Procedure. 1 provides that an operator of an establishment where regular meals are consumed, as well as the caterer who regularly provides catering services, is obliged to issue VAT receipts to taxable persons, or even non-taxable persons. Many youth clubs and sports clubs are subject to VAT, mainly because they run a public service. Many of them also organise dinner parties at regular intervals such as musselsoupers or spaghetti evenings. The question is whether or not these activities are covered by the above rules. If yes, the KB provides that those organisations, in the context of a GKS regulation, must issue VAT receipts if the restaurant and catering services are provided on a regular basis. There would be an exemption for very occasional activities, in accordance with a directive of the administration. In addition, the administration states that where those transactions are exempted under Article 44 of the VAT Code, they are also exempted from the GKS regulation regardless of the amount of the amounts or the number of transactions. My questions are as follows, Minister. Can you confirm that sports and youth clubs that organise such dining parties are covered by that exemption from very occasional activities? In other words, what are very occasional activities? If so, what are the actual criteria? Could you clarify a little more about the VAT administration's decision on this matter?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic161x.u36	Mr President, Mr Verherstraeten, the turnover of the restoration and catering services provided by a VAT payer, excluding the drinks involved, is at least 10% of the total turnover of his catering activities, and he had to inform the administration that he would have to work with a registered cash register system in the future. As a result of this 10 % rule, VAT payers who occasionally organise a so-called food feast but otherwise do not achieve a catering turnover may have to purchase a GKS, just for this annual food feast. Therefore, the administration has recently decided that VAT payers who provide very occasional restaurant and catering services are exempted from the use of a GKS. In particular, this is the case under the following three conditions: if the restaurant and catering services are limited to five calendar days per year, if the turnover from the meals used on the spot, excluding the associated drinks, does not exceed EUR 15 000 per calendar year, and if the taxable person does not carry out any other activities in the hospitality or food sector. Consequently, in the case envisaged by you, where a sports club organises a dinner party in the cafeteria, this administrative tolerance does not apply, as the sports club already carries out a catering activity. The question then arises as to whether the organisation of a dinner party by a sports club exempted from VAT under Article 44 of the VAT Code is also exempt from VAT. This is the case when the proceeds of the dinner are used for financial support for the exempted activity of the sports club itself. As an administrative tolerance, it is accepted that these revenues may also be used for the financial support of a good cause. Moreover, the exemption only applies if the organisation of the food feast does not go beyond obtaining financial support and therefore does not constitute an end in itself. It therefore does not apply to regular, for example weekly or monthly, activities which may cause distortions of competition. If such an eating feast is organised once a year, the exemption may indeed apply. The decision is that this is actually a matter of fact that needs to be assessed on a case-by-case basis.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic161x.u37	Hopefully they will be satisfied with the answer in Mol.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic161x.u38	Mr President, the question came from Turnhout.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic161x.u39	(...).
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic161x.u40	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply. You refer to the finding that this is a case-by-case assessment. I call for the necessary flexibility of assessment, especially when it comes to associations such as sports clubs, cultural clubs and youth clubs. These are usually activities for the benefit of our society.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic161x.u41	Minister, negotiations are under way to update the preventive double taxation convention between France and Belgium. I would like to know whether these discussions deal with the fate of Belgian pensioners who have worked in France, who were taxed in France during their professional activity and are taxed in Belgium during their pension, which is a unique case. I would also like to know whether there is a question of the taxation of supplementary pensions, which is normally subject to reduced rates of taxation in Belgium, whereas this is not the case in France. I wanted to know whether these items were part of the discussion and whether that was not the case, if you could add them to the agenda of the discussions, since about 30,000 borderers are involved, from La Panne to Athus.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic161x.u42	Belgium supports the taxation of pensions in the State of source. It systematically tries to assert this position in any negotiations aimed at concluding a new tax convention or revising an existing convention. This is also the position defended in the ongoing negotiations with France. However, France is one of the many countries firmly committed to the exclusive taxation of pensions in the beneficiary's State of residence. This system is also advocated by the OECD Model Tax Convention. It is therefore feared that France will refuse to amend the current scheme applicable to private sector pensions, as it has always done in previous negotiations. I would also like to make two points. First, French pensions are not the only foreign pensions to be taxed in Belgium. Under the agreement with the Netherlands, Dutch-source pensions may be taxed in the Netherlands only when certain conditions are met. Other agreements, such as those concluded with Spain and Italy, provide for the exclusive taxation of all private pensions in the beneficiary's State of residence. Second, the reduced rate of 16.5% applies only to pensions paid in the form of capital. Belgian pensions paid in a periodic form also do not benefit from this reduced rate.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic161x.u43	I thank you for these answers, Minister, because there is a kind of argument that has, for years, blamed Belgium for being responsible for this. It seemed to me that this was not the case. Some parties have made great efforts to rectify the matter with the Belgian Minister of Finance. But it is in France that the problem is to be solved.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic161x.u44	Mr President, Minister, the number of people who suffer losses through Internet financial products, such as binary options (the possibility of betting), is constantly increasing. More and more intense advertising attracts these people. These ads are not necessarily reliable. They're even more of a lie. Those who venture into this kind of investment suffer heavy losses on a regular basis. In order to combat these advertisements, the Autorité des marchés financiers (AMF) proposed that a legislative provision should give the regulator – therefore, to itself – the legal capacity to prohibit advertising on extremely risky products. It would seem that this idea would help to curb the public's enthusiasm, which may not always be aware of the risk it is taking. Minister, what are FSMA's current prerogatives in controlling financial advertising on the Internet? What do you think of such a proposal? Is the FSMA seeking such jurisdiction?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic161x.u45	Mr Mathot, thank you for your question concerning the control of advertising of dangerous financial products on the Internet, such as binary options or contracts for differences on foreign exchange, which is currently under discussion at both national and international level. I can say that most of these products are available from abroad. In Belgium, they are prohibited from marketing due to the lack of prospectuses approved by the FSMA. In addition, these products are the subject of warnings by the FSMA and ESMA. In general, FSMA has the same powers for the control of Internet advertising as for other advertisements provided that they are made in Belgium and relate to specific products. Notoriety advertising is currently not subject to FSMA control. Finally, know that from 3 January 2017, the European framework better known as MiFIR will offer ESMA and/or national supervisors the possibility of prohibiting the sale of dangerous products to consumers, subject to certain conditions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic161x.u46	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic161x.u47	Question No 3813 by Mr Benoît Friart was transformed into a written question. Questions Nos 3856 and 3857 by Mrs Griet Smaers have already been asked. We're waiting for Mrs. Lahaye-Battheu. Question No 3869 by Mrs Barbara Pas has also been transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic161x.u48	Mr President, Minister, I would like to ask you about the target groups that will be subject to more tax control by the tax authorities. For this year, if I am not mistaken, it is the heads of companies and management companies that will be subject to this strengthened control. Can you briefly explain the criteria and procedure under which the target groups are selected annually?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic161x.u49	Mr Crusnière, the General Administration of Taxation lists all the information on tax risks that comes to it from different sources, including the suggestions made by the operatives via the internal application "Fisc-Idées". Each input is evaluated to assess the relevance, occurrence and impact of the risk. On the basis of the elements thus identified and analysed, and also taking into account the results of previous actions, the administration shall make certain priority projects annually. In accordance with the most appropriate approach, a project may lead to the organisation of an action for research services, a control operation by the tax authorities or an assistance measure. The latter can be translated into a letter to taxpayers, professional organisations or social secretariats, or into a contract with the number professionals. The various options thus chosen are integrated into an action plan which is subject to validation by the Management Committee of the General Administration of Taxation. Managers and management companies represent two of the target groups targeted by the control actions decided by the administration for this year. However, there are, of course, still others. As reflected in the announcement just published, attention is also drawn to individuals when processing their returns electronically.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic161x.u50	Mr President, I thank the Minister for all these clarifications.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic161x.u51	Minister, in his Code of 29 March 2014 "to win back the real economy", the French legislator introduced a series of "measures in favour of long-term ownership", integrated into the Commercial Code. Thus, article L225-123 of the Code, in its third paragraph, provides that "in companies whose shares are admitted to trading on a regulated market, the double voting rights provided for in the first paragraph shall be entitled, except as otherwise provided in the statutes adopted after the enactment of the law of 29 March 2014 aimed at regaining the real economy for all fully paid-up shares, for which it is justified by a nominative entry for two years in the name of the same shareholder". This is an interesting step on paper in that it "rewards" the medium- and long-term shareholders who accompany the strategy and support the company with the aim of making it evolve in the medium-term. The Belgian State has been a shareholder of BNP Paribas for seven years and is therefore eligible for double voting rights. It would seem, however, that BNP Paribas management wants to maintain the principle of "one action = one vote", which would require a statutory amendment in order not to apply the law. I would like to know the intentions of the federal government with regard to this possible amendment of BNP's statutes, which I believe would not be in the interests of our state. It is better for us to have the most important voting right in this bank and to be able to influence it from within. Minister, are you aware of this text? Do you intend to assert this right to a better representation of the Belgian State, either through direct contacts with the bank's management or through the directors appointed by the federal government within it? What will be the position of its representatives if such a statutory amendment is submitted to the General Assembly? If so, does this mean that new directors representing the Belgian State should be appointed to the Bank? What method would then be used to appoint the additional representatives of the Belgian State?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic161x.u52	Mr Gilkinet, you're asking four questions. At the first, I can reply that I am indeed aware of this text. On the second, I will reply that the participation of BNP Paribas Fortis is held on behalf of the State by SFPI. This participation is followed both by the SFPI and, I assure you, by my firm. In this regard, I can tell you that this Monday, 27 April, I had another meeting with BNP Paribas CEO Jean-Laurent Bonnafé. The SFPI and my firm also maintain regular contacts with the directors who represent Belgium. Let me stress, in this context, that all parties are obliged to respect the legislation, also French, on professional secrecy. Let me turn to your third question. On the agenda of the general meeting of BNP Paribas Fortis scheduled for Wednesday, 13 May 2015, there is a resolution to approve a derogation from the Florange law adopted on 29 March 2015. This law provides that shares held by the same shareholder shall be given a double voting right for at least two years, unless the general meeting approves the derogation "one share = one vote". BNP Paribas is indeed asking for approval of this derogation. The Belgian State, in its capacity as the largest shareholder, with a stake of more than 10%, will oppose this resolution and therefore stick to the Florange law. This not only reinforces the Belgian position, but it also offers more possibilities for optimally defending Belgian interests. Moreover, this encourages longer-term ownership and therefore a long-term vision, which is very important in the financial sector. However, short-term shareholders are in no way penalized because they retain their voice, but this rewards long-term shareholders. It is also important to keep the two directors appointed by the Belgian State on the board of BNP Paribas more easily. With regard to your fourth question, the Memorandum of Understanding of 10 October 2008 as amended by Amendment No 3 of 12 March 2009 stipulates that, as long as the Belgian State holds at least 10% of the voting rights, it is authorised to present two directors for approval by the General Assembly. If the Belgian State holds between 5 and 10 % of the voting rights, it may present an administrator, which is why the rejection of the resolution by and for Belgium is even more important. However, this cannot lead to the right to obtain more than two directors.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic161x.u53	Minister, thank you. I share your concern to defend the interests of the Belgian State through our representatives and, more broadly, a sounder banking model than that sometimes represented by BNP Paribas. I understood the voting behaviour of representatives of the Belgian State at the next general meeting of BNP Paribas on 13 May. I do not know if this will be enough to block this statutory amendment because it will depend on the voting behaviour of the other shareholders, if I understand correctly. I will re-examine you after May 13 to find out the outcome of this general meeting. I also note with interest the regular monitoring by the SFPI and your firm of the work carried out by our two directors at BNP Paribas. This was often denied to me by your predecessors, who felt that there should be no contact between the Belgian authority and its administrators. I think we need a more proactive approach to the issue. Belgium, not only in its interest but also in the more global interest in the sound management of financial affairs by banks, must use this participation to try to influence BNP Paribas and encourage it to behave more virtuously in terms of collaboration with tax evasion mechanisms and the sustainability of its investments. I hope you're also attentive to it. We will return after 13 May.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic161x.u54	Mr President, Minister, Belgium is the subject of a FATF report on financial crime and money laundering. This report is oddly late, as the release was scheduled for April 13, 2015. Since my question was introduced a few weeks ago, things may have changed. I'd be happy to hear that. It seems obvious that the implementation of measures for diamond miners is not at a sufficient level to ensure that the high risks found in this sector are controlled. This is due in particular to the fact that, due to the lack of available resources, controls are very limited and that, despite the proven risk of money laundering through this sector, suspicious transaction reports are non-existent. You justified the implementation of the carat tax by the fact that the budgetary return would be EUR 50 million. And to add that, in any case, the sector is difficult to control. Minister, is this your way of responding to the FATF? Since there is no longer a clear desire to provide the means to control this sector, it is proposed to pay a lump sum to continue its operations called into question by the FATF. Is this the price of a license to money laundering despite the FATF procedure? Finally, could you tell us when the FATF report will be available and why it has been so late in its publication?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic161x.u55	Mr President, Minister, I would like to supplement the information given to my colleague, Mr Laaouej. I think I can say that the FATF published its report on its website on April 23. This report analyses the measures taken by Belgium to combat money laundering and the financing of terrorism. In plenary session, on 26 February 2015, when I asked you about the elements that had filtered into the press, you said: "After the publication of the FATF's final report on Belgium's assessment, which will take a few more weeks, the government will take the measures it considers necessary to respond to the specific conclusions of this report." Since February 26, the government has made a budgetary adjustment. Among the measures announced is the introduction of a carat tax for the diamond sector. I would like to read you an excerpt from the FATF report specifically on the diamond sector: "The implementation of the measures by diamond dealers does not seem to be of a sufficient level to ensure that the high risks of the sector are controlled. The controls they are subject to remain very limited, in particular due to a lack of available resources. Reports of suspicious transactions are non-existent despite the proven risk of money laundering through this sector. The number of criminal investigations and convictions does not seem to be in line with the level of risk identified so far, even if two important cases are ongoing." In addition to the diamond sector, the report points to high-risk activities, such as cash flows such as used vehicle or gold trade and cash transfer services. Minister, what are the government's responses to the FATF report? What additional means have been foreseen to strengthen the fight against fraud in the sectors concerned? Is the carat tax for the diamond sector one of the measures taken to limit the risk of money laundering?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic161x.u56	Mr Minister, my attention has been drawn to the same report that my two colleagues have mentioned, and above all to the recommendations on the policies in our country to combat money laundering: the consolidation of a comprehensive approach against money laundering and the financing of terrorism; better collaboration between the Financial Information Processing Unit (FTIC), supervisory authorities and professionals but also with criminal authorities; more effective implementation of measures vis-à-vis money service providers and bureaux de change, etc. The report is not very positive about the way in which the fight against fraud and money laundering is conducted in the country. The FATF notes in particular that the way in which anti-money laundering and anti-terrorist financing measures are implemented by diamond dealers is insufficient and that the controls against them are "very limited", the number of investigations and convictions "does not seem to be in line with the level of risk identified so far". This is particularly severe and is in particular in contrast to the measures announced on the tax side in the context of the budgetary adjustment, in particular the diamond tax on which I have already asked you. Minister, can you tell me your main conclusions when you read the FATF report? For me, there's really work for the government and all the tax services. What measures are you going to implement to improve the next FATF evaluation of Belgium's efforts to combat money laundering and terrorist financing? In particular, what steps are you going to take in relation to those sectors considered to be more at risk, such as the diamond sector or those in which a lot of cash flows like used cars?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic161x.u57	Mr President, the evaluation report of Belgium by the Financial Action Task Force was published on Thursday, 23 April 2015. The deadline between the adoption of the report in February 2015 and its publication in April 2015 is quite normal. It is due to the procedure and technical constraints related to the posting of the report on the FATF website. The procedure is for the mutual evaluation report to be submitted again to the evaluated country before publication, which has two weeks to make its final remarks. Secondly, the mutual evaluation report is submitted for a final review to all FATF member delegations who also have two weeks to comment. The publication of the report is accompanied by technical constraints, including the preparation by the FATF secretariat of a communiqué accompanying the publication. This press release, written in English and French, is also submitted to the evaluated country. The report and the communiqué are then published. This explains why a delay of six to eight weeks is required to arrive at the publication of the report. Following the adoption of the mutual evaluation report of Belgium by the FATF in February 2015, the Coordination College for the Fight against Money Laundering has drawn up an action plan to address the shortcomings identified by the FATF and to respond to the recommendations made to remedy those shortcomings. This plan sets out a series of measures that the Coordinating College proposes to take to address the FATF's findings. The proposed measures include strengthening controls against money laundering and terrorist financing among professionals who have not yet sufficiently assessed the risks of money laundering and terrorist financing and who do not report sufficiently to the Financial Information Processing Unit. Measures are proposed in this plan to increase controls in the areas you cite. The diamond regime referred to is based on a different angle and does not open the door to money laundering and the financing of terrorism at all. The diamond regime aims, on the one hand, at a proper budgetary contribution from the diamond sector by applying a method of perception which is easily controllable and efficient. On the other hand, it provides greater legal certainty and fiscal predictability. It is simple to apply, which allows to promote the trade of large volumes of diamonds with a relatively large turnover of stocks.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic161x.u58	Minister, thank you for your answers, but they deserve further consideration. Because of the different agendas, we had interrupted the work of the committee when we had to explore the issue of tax evasion. Perhaps this is an opportunity to take them back and, why not, to meet with FATF members to question them about their report on Belgium. I take advantage of my reply to make this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic161x.u59	In this regard, we contacted FATF a few weeks ago. We have been informed that only three or four people work there in Paris. In addition, none of them is willing to go to a national parliament. We have had the same problem with the OECD. Pascal Saint-Amans had also explained that he refused to come to a national parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic161x.u60	Mr. President, I can hear you. However, someone had to write the report on Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic161x.u61	Mr. De Geeter phoned the FATF, but he was told that his collaborators would not travel here, as they would then have to do so in all the countries concerned. I am telling you that it is illusory to believe that this group will come to Parliament in a few weeks' time.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic161x.u62	Mr President, I do not mind going to Paris.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic161x.u63	It's a great trip!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic161x.u64	An hour and a half of TGV travel, Mr. President! We could go together.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic161x.u65	This is a good suggestion: a delegation from the committee would travel to Paris for two days to meet with OECD and FATF members!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic161x.u66	Minister, I cannot hide from you that I am a little disappointed by your answer. On the basis of the co-ordination college's proposals, you are announcing a strengthening of existing measures and an increase in controls, but without really giving any details or indicating with what additional means this reinforcement or increase in controls can take place. This answer seems slightly literary to me, if I may say so. With regard to the carat tax, frankly, I am almost saddened by the proposal you made to the government. We're with each other. So I can confide in you. There is an illustrious finance minister in another country who has made a great career – I wish you a career as prestigious as his – it was Valéry Giscard d'Estaing, who was Minister of Finance before becoming President of the Republic. His career was stopped when he was a victim, wrongly or right – the former journalist you certainly remember – of the diamond affair. I'm not making a parallel. At the end of his term of office, he was suspected of collusion with an African regime and thus benefited from diamonds which he allegedly used in his personal capacity. It cost him dearly, wrongly or rightly. I think that in public opinion the feeling of connivance with the diamond sector has harmed him. Frankly, I wouldn't want you to suffer the same fate. The public expects fair treatment of all sectors. Whatever your arguments are, the plan you are proposing is a preferential plan. We will certainly discuss this again at the time of adjustment. From this point of view, this regime is shocking. I regret that you did not have the caution of your predecessor with this measure. He had given it up. I think that in your good ministerial journey it would have been wise not to follow up on this suggestion made by the sector itself, but which clearly runs counter to the warning signals that the FATF has given us in the fight against fraud and money laundering, particularly in the diamond sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic161x.u67	Mr Minister, in order to complete Mr Laaouej's proposal on the follow-up to this report, in the absence of the FATF or a trip to Paris, perhaps we could invite representatives of the College of Attorneys General. According to your information, a plan had been drawn up following this report. It might be useful to hear representatives of prosecutors general about this action plan, to be aware of it and to discuss it with them. It is easier to invite the College of Attorneys General than the FATF. They have already come to the Finance Committee. That would be useful for the continuation of the work on combating tax fraud that we have planned. For the rest, we disagree with the diamond tax, on which I have already asked you several times. You bring us new information at the very end of the answer, according to which it is to encourage the exchange of large volumes of diamonds and the variation of stocks via the flat-rate system that you have imagined. This means that there will be an increase in the volume, and therefore in the benefit to the industry concerned. You also tell us that you want to increase their contribution from EUR 20 million to EUR 50 million. I have the impression that they will be able to gain much more from the volume of trade that remains minimal, beyond the questions I ask about a preferential regime, which would benefit only one sector and beyond the questions that can be asked about the probity of certain players in this sector. At the time of the discussion of the program law – and I regret that it is part of a program law and not a piece of legislation as such – we will still have a lot of grain to grind and I hope you will have some answers to give me. The questions I will ask you at this time will relate to the significance of larger volumes and a greater variation in stocks. What does this mean in terms of profits for the diamond sector? Is the additional contribution actually proportional to the benefit granted to them? I have more than doubts about this.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic161x.u68	Mr Minister, my question concerns the payment of mainly fines by means of a deduction from the VAT or tax refund. Apparently, there are some problems with the registration. There should be a direct line between, on the one hand, the service which collects the fine, e.g. through the deduction of VAT and, on the other hand, the recipient of penalty fines, which should therefore record the fine as "payable'. Let me give you an example of what someone I know well has been through. This person had a fine of 450 euros. The fine was paid through his VAT refund in December of last year. However, in March of this year, at the next VAT refund, a further EUR 450 was deducted. The office claims that the payment was not yet registered at the time of the set-off and that it will be refunded at the VAT account in June. Unfortunately, the story isn't over yet. A few weeks later, at the beginning of April, the same person was stopped during a routine check by the customs services, who found that he had an unpaid fine of 450 euros open. He'll have to pay that fine immediately, if not his vehicle will be hacked. That person could not do otherwise than pay the 450 euro fine for the third time, because the Customs had no knowledge of the payment either. Are you aware of similar practical experiences? Do you recognize the problem? What do you think caused it? What is a reasonable period between the payment of a fine via the VAT refund and its registration in the system? Should measures be taken? If so, which one?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic161x.u69	Mrs Lahaye, the case you have outlined is quite impressive, but not sufficiently detailed to be able to give a ruling on it. I'll have the case examined by my administration if you can provide additional information. The result will of course be communicated to you. More generally, the time limits for the repayment of a VAT credit are laid down by law. The credit shall in principle be repaid no later than the third month following the period covered by the quarterly declaration or by the last month of that quarter and no later than the second month following the period covered by the VAT monthly return, if the trader has a licence to receive a monthly VAT refund. These time limits also apply where part of the VAT refund is withheld for the payment of tax or non-tax claims. The administration has recently taken measures to speed up the processing of refunds on tax and non-fiscal claims. For example, direct tax refunds can be transferred directly to the postal account of the other FPS services from March 2015. The recipients, responsible for the penalty payments, will in the near future be able to enter a retention of a payment refund for an unpaid penalty directly into their computer system. As a result, customs will no longer claim payment for fines paid by their creditors who are entitled to a credit.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic161x.u70	Minister, I can only welcome the fact that processing will be accelerated. I will provide you with further information on the case that was entrusted to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic161x.u71	Mr Van der Maelen has not spoken, so his question No. 3961 is not stopped. We are not going to postpone all the questions, otherwise it will be a game where many questions are submitted but the questioner will not hear from us. Those questions will be deleted. Debates of the European Parliament Question No 3982 by Mr Van Biesen Mr Van de Velde's report was postponed for 3985.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic161x.u72	Mr Minister, a credit rating agency recently issued negative prospects for the Belgian banking sector. Through the press, this agency justifies these forecasts by the fact that Belgium has not yet transposed into national law the European Directive 2014/59/EU establishing a framework for the recovery and resolution of credit institutions and investment firms. As regards the transposition of directives, Belgium has never been a good pupil, although, according to the information available on the European Commission's website, the situation has improved in recent years. In November 2014, Belgium had yet to transpose nine directives, which represents a delay above the European average. Minister, when are you going to submit to Parliament the draft transposition of this European directive on the banking resolution? How many European directives still need to be transposed by Belgium in the matters that fall within your competence? Can you give us a timetable for draft legislation transposing the European directives?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic161x.u73	Mr Dispa, concerning the transposition of the 2014 Directive, it has already taken place in large part in the provision of Title VIII of our new banking law. However, it is still necessary to introduce the so-called internal bailout resolution instrument, which aims to make shareholders and creditors contribute to the bailout of the bank and thus to limit the possibilities of public support. This element must be introduced by royal decree and enter into force, as provided for in the Directive, on 1 January 2016. As far as your second question is concerned, there are fourteen non-tax directives which have to be transposed and which fall within my domain. I make available to the members of the committee a detailed timetable for the draft legislation transposing the European directives.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic161x.u74	So if I understand correctly, you'll file a transposition schedule. Thank you. I'll take care of it. Thank you also for your response to this internal bailout instrument. I think that if we go faster than the expected deadline of 1 January 2016, it will be an element that will strengthen confidence in the Belgian banking system a little bit. So as much not to wait until the end of the year to do what is necessary. Thank you, anyway, for the schedule you'll be filing.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic161x.u75	Question No 4021 by Mr Luk Van Biesen is transformed into a written question. Question No 4044 by Mrs Carina Van Cauter is postponed. Questions Nos 4047 and 4061 by Mr Van de Velde have been postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic161x.u76	Mr President, we will soon have to present the commune's 2014 accounts to the municipal council. Indeed, they are not very good in terms of tax revenues. I would like to ask the minister not at the outset of this very local situation, but simply because this theme of the payment of the extras, whether to the PPI or to the real estate discount is really important. With regard to the additional cents to the PPI, you answered an oral question at the January 29 plenary session that your administration was developing a system of structural advances for the treatment of the additionals. This would enable cities and municipalities to better manage their financial planning and budgetary situation. As a result, the estimates provided periodically by the Finance FPS will be more in line with the actual fiscal capacity of the municipalities. Like the communal additions to the PPI, the municipal additions to the real estate discount are also subject to significant fluctuations. You yourself insisted, in an answer to the question on the tax in the diamond sector, on the need for some fiscal predictability. This is certainly the case for cities and municipalities as well. Does the proposed structural solution for the additions to the PPI also concern the payment of the additionals to the real estate discount? Is the proposed structural solution a system of fixed advances? Could you give me more details on the variations in the amounts transferred to the municipalities between 2013 and 2014 for the municipal additions to the property discount? What part of the variation is attributable, if any, to delayed recruitment?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic161x.u77	My colleague, first of all, it should be pointed out that at the level of recruitments in respect of real estate prepayments relating to the 2014 tax year, the entire process has been completed within the statutory deadlines provided for in the Income Tax Code. Specifically, the process took place between July and October 2014, while enrolment for the 2013 tax year was conducted between June and September 2013. The delay in the start of recruitment in 2014 is mainly due to the adaptation of the programmes following the amendment of the legislation of the Walloon Region. It was necessary to review all the role-extract warning models as a result of this change in legislation and the explanations of the reductions attached. The consequence of this delay is a shift in the revenue allocated to the municipalities in the area of municipal additions to the property discount. Since this shift in revenue is, by its exceptional nature, different from that of the municipal additions to the PPI, a system of structural advances is not currently envisaged. The amounts transferred to all municipalities amount to a total of 1,389 billion euros for 2014, compared to 1,422 billion euros for 2013. Notwithstanding the 2.7% increase in duties observed in the 2014 budget year, the decrease in revenue of EUR 33 million can be explained by the following. 1. The above-mentioned revenue shift had an effect on the duties to be carried forward to the end of 2014. The increase in these duties to be carried forward by EUR 33 million generated additional revenue, mainly in January 2015 and, to a lesser extent, in February and March 2015. 2. The significant increase in the rebates is mainly due to the agreement signed by a large group, the Federal State and the authorities of the Brussels-Capital Region, on a property discount dispute. From the above, it follows that the FPS Finance can only pay the revenues to the municipalities in question as they are collected. The administration shall make every effort to ensure that such recruitment is carried out as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic161x.u78	Mr Minister, thank you for this very comprehensive answer, for the figures you give me, for the information you give on the need to adapt the models following the change attributable to the Walloon Region and on the decreases due to the dispute whose resolution involved a reduction. Nevertheless, you are aware that, whatever the explanations, the decrease in revenue creates a problem for local authorities and delays in payments also penalise communes in terms of cash flow. I take note of the good will of the FPS Finances, which I had no doubt about, but beyond the good will, there is really room to improve the information given to the communes. Objectively, it is sometimes very difficult to obtain reliable and understandable data. On the other hand, I wonder if we should not look at a system of advances. Perhaps that would be a way of responding to the cash flow difficulties I mentioned. The FPS Finance must be encouraged for its good will, but if such significant variations were to be confirmed, perhaps a structural mechanism of advance would be a more satisfactory response.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic161x.u79	Mr. Chairman, Minister, the inter-federal working group on the stability programme of Tuesday, April 28, 2015 was informed that the actual result of the enrolments of the 2013 taxation year would be - 5,632,719,577.24 euros after the expiry of the ordinary 18-month tax period. For the 2014 and 2015 tax year, the electronic document states that the disaggregated method used for budgetary work provides an estimate of the amounts of the PPI roles by fiscal year, in respect of rights recognized, to the legislation of the previous fiscal year (the impact of the tax measures is taken into account when entering the SEC). This method gives the following results for the roles: - €6.853 billion for the financial year 2014; - €6.874 billion for the financial year 2015. These two amounts are set out in Table 13 of the Monitoring Committee (budget control estimates 2015) of 19 March 2015 in point 1.4 (IPP Sec - Balance of duties recognised under legislation T-1). Minister, how can you explain that the roles increased by 21.66% between fiscal year 2013 and fiscal year 2014-15? Is this dramatic increase noted in the enrolment of returns for the 2014 tax year, the regular tax period of which expires on June 30, 2015? In this regard, could you please provide us with the amount of duties recognized for the 2014 tax year as of April 30, 2015 and the total number of returns for that fiscal year that were enrolled up to that date? We are very concerned about the budgetary implications that could result from these actual results. It is in this context that I have sent a letter to the Court of Auditors to address, in particular, these points on the occasion of the budgetary conclave.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic161x.u80	Mr Laaouej, the figures quoted are not directly comparable. As regards Table 13, page 28 of the report of the Monitoring Committee, the figures to which reference is made are intermediate results. The purpose of this table is not to provide an estimate of duties recognized by tax year but rather SEC revenue from the roles. The number quoted is only a step in the calculation. Subsequent to this figure, adjustments are still made to take account of various items, including uncollected revenue from accruals in the financial year, income, discounts and refunds from or from previous years. Account shall also be taken of the fact that part of the professional discount collected is not charged to the PPI because it is charged to non-residents. The relevant figure is that of the roles with current legislation per fiscal year based on ESA. For the 2015 budget year, it amounts to - €5,433 million. This figure is shown in the table on page 28 of the Monitoring Committee's report. I assume that your question is part of a reconstitution process to calculate the allocation of the regional PPI. In this respect, and in view of the large gap between the initial budget estimate and the budget control figure, I have given an order to carry out a full audit costing. On the margins of the Consultation Committee of 29 April 2015, it was agreed with the Regions that the FPS Finance would perform this new calculation on the basis of a much larger sample which should be considered representative by the FPS Statistics Directorate Economic Affairs. The results are expected to be known by the summer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic161x.u81	Mr. Minister, your answer is to tell us that at this stage these figures are intermediate and that they do not take into account certain elements, slippages, professional discounts that should be neglected because they would concern non-residents, but also uncollected revenues. In short, these data do not represent the whole calculation. I would therefore like to know what figures have been produced, which take into account all the factors that make it possible to determine the amount of the negative roles and, beyond that, the tax revenue figures of the globalised natural persons – by integrating the discount, the role and the advance payments, which are the three criteria that determine the amount of tax revenue to the IPP. These data are available, as we are talking about relatively old exercises. Second, however, I am pleased that the minister added that the analysis would be further developed. This would involve a new stakeholder, the Directorate-General for Statistics of Economic Affairs. That's a good thing. I hope that contacts with the Regions will continue with a view to clarifying the figures. Finally, this summer, we would see clearly between the figures of the initial 2015 and those of the conclave. Does this mean that a new conclave would be programmed if this reconciliation were to be concluded in opposition to the federal share of IPP's revenues, while that of the Regions would increase? Therefore, the budget would be affected. Nevertheless, Minister, I confess to you that I tried to take note of everything, but I did not succeed. Could I then get a copy of your answer? In any case, a difficult conclave is coming.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic161x.u82	Mrs Vanheste is not present, her question No. 4117 is deleted. Question No 4131 by Mrs Fonck, who was absent, was also withdrawn. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Van Biesen's 4137 was converted into a written question. Questions Nos 4151 and 4154 by Mrs Wilmès have been postponed. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Friart's 4168 was converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic161x.u83	Mr Gilkinet, this question is a problem to me because it is a question of one person.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic161x.u84	Mr President, the content of my question is not about Mr Bouckaert's person. I have already asked questions about Mr Bouckaert while he was president of Belfius. Rather, these are the consequences of (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic161x.u85	You have to be very careful with these things.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic161x.u86	I'm always very careful.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic161x.u87	You can ask the question, but it is up to the minister to answer it or not because it is a question about a person.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic161x.u88	Mr President, you will see that the question is not primarily about Mr Bouckaert. It was on the occasion of the condemnation of the former President of Belfius that I wanted to question the minister about the consequences of this conviction in terms of the right and the ability of the state to recover sums that were fraudulently committed. On 24 April, the Brussels Correctional Court found the former president of Belfius guilty of forgery and forgery. It's the judicial truth. The facts which led to his conviction date back to the late 1980s and early 1990s, when he chaired the management committee of Crédit Lyonnais Belgique. The latter institution then proposed installations designed to "clean up huge amounts of taxable base". Since several banks were involved in these fraudulent manoeuvres, it was EUR 400 million that was not collected by the Belgian State, according to the figures published. This conviction opens up the possibility for the Belgian State to recover part of these amounts through civil proceedings, in which the government would be well inspired to commit itself. Minister, what are the consequences of this judgment on the possibility of civil action, not against Mr Bouckaert but against the bank? Has this possibility been explored? Will the government take this action? If so, within what time frame and with what legal means?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic161x.u89	Mr Gilkinet, the administration has not yet received a copy of the judgment in this case, which is not final. However, I would like to make it clear that my department was a civil party. It is therefore premature to answer the questions asked.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic161x.u90	So I'll come back to you. I was at least clear about my concern. I believe that if there is a recognition of fraud for such large amounts, the Belgian State would be inspired to try to recover these sums beyond the potential conviction of the person responsible. I have no doubt that you will be attentive to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic161x.u91	Minister, the Council of Ministers of 15 October 2014 decided on the principle of taxing the welfare envelope. This principle raises questions in particular with regard to the delay in the calculation of the tax - hence the reality of the grant of this allowance supplement - as well as with respect to the beneficiaries, whose income is below the taxable threshold. Minister, how has the file evolved since this decision in principle? Do you confirm the principle of taxing the welfare envelope, as decided at the Council of Ministers on 15 October? How will the tax advantage of the eligible beneficiaries be calculated, without knowing the result of their tax calculation? Will the beneficiaries be able to benefit from the real-time revalorisation of their income or will they have to wait for the result of their tax calculation to benefit from this revalorisation? What about taxpayers whose income is below the taxable threshold? Will they benefit from a tax credit?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic161x.u92	Mr Gilkinet, the 2015-2016 interprofessional agreement, concluded on 30 January 2015 by five of the six social partners, includes a proposal to allocate the envelope to be allocated to the welfare of workers, which, on an annual basis, amounts to EUR 319.5 million for 2015 and EUR 627.2 million for 2016. On February 6, 2015, the government confirmed that it would implement the agreement in full. With regard to the allocation of this envelope, the government has opted for a direct increase in allocations rather than for adjustment to welfare through taxation. In this context, I refer, for example, to the amendments made to the Workers' Compensation Act, to the coordinated laws relating to the prevention of occupational diseases, to the distribution of the damage resulting from them by the Act of 23 April 2015 concerning the promotion of employment, to the Royal Decree of 3 April 2015 adapting to the well-being of certain pensions in the scheme for employed persons. Other royal decrees are in preparation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic161x.u93	Minister, this means that the government has decided to reverse its decision of October 15, 2014 and not to use the tax channel. It's a wise decision! We are challenging this principle for reasons that I have set out. I am thinking in particular of those who are below the tax threshold. We will be paying attention to future decisions in this area.
