ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic258x.u1	Mr President, Madam Minister, the concerns raised by the PS group during the various parliamentary debates regarding the financing of the tax shift are today confirmed by what the Budget Minister said in the press. Indeed, according to him, it would be missing 2 billion euros. We think it's a minimum of $2 billion. It's at least 2.8 billion euros and maybe more, I'll come back to it. Let's be clear! I would like to pay tribute to the candidness of the Minister for Budgets and, above all, to the fact that she must not be burdened with a number of mistakes or errors committed by others. And I do not even target his predecessor, Mr. Jamar, who was also doing what he could, since he himself confessed to us that he was not aware of a number of fundamental data which the Minister of Finance did not transmit to him. What is at stake today is the repeated amateurism of the government as a whole. From this point of view, the Prime Minister bears a heavy share of responsibility when, on two occasions, he has presented to public opinion a tax reform that is not funded, despite words that indicate the opposite. What are the facts? We have an alleged tax reform of more than €4 billion financed by a proven increase that is already experiencing taxes on consumption – I put in brackets the index jump. This does not mean that this is negligible, but it also affects purchasing power. Let's call him back! – and then, by an alleged increase in taxes on capital, of which we know that the revenues are quite questionable. And now, from the words of the Minister for Budgets, we learn that there is at least EUR 2 billion missing in the financing of the said tax reform. In parliamentary debate, we said on the basis of the tables presented by the government itself – I have them here and I have them at the disposal of the committee – that, from the outset, there was, on the budget path, EUR 1 billion 641 million that were not yet funded, with regard to the budget path. In addition, $1.1 billion was added, which inflated the envelope for the so-called tax reform of the federal government, totalling a hole of €2.8 billion. So I don't know what to call it anymore. The vocabulary of the French language is exhausted. Is that amateurism? Is that deception? Is that mystification? Is it a mixture of the three? In any case, it is irresponsibility because what does that mean? This means that tax reductions are promised to the population by 2019, minus EUR 100 per month, but half of these reductions are not funded. This is irresponsibility because this budget gap will have to be financed at some point, new revenue or additional savings will have to be found. What does that mean? New revenue: new taxes on consumption? Economies: new cuts in social security? As if there wasn't enough already. Does that mean that we are going to go after public services again and again? Is that how the government intends to manage the finances, with such unforeseeableness, so irresponsibility? I repeat, Mrs Wilmès inherits a situation and has the merit of being frank, but at the same time, what I ask her as Minister of Budget is to tighten a little bit of the bolts to the Minister of Finance, who sends her the estimates of tax revenues, but also to the Prime Minister who is the arbitrator and who must, at some point, stop these announcement effects! What happened between July and October? That's the heart of the problem. In July, the Prime Minister announced a tax reduction of 100 euros for low and medium incomes. He masked as much as he could the fact that there was a huge increase in taxes on consumption. "I give with one hand but I take with the other." Occulted also the effect of index jump. He's not talking about it anymore. Even in his statement on the state of the Union, he forgot the index jump. And then he realized, between July and October, that to reach his promise of 100 euros a month, he did not have enough budgetary resources. It therefore inflated the budget but without funding. He didn't have the courage to present a budget-truth. And that is a fundamental reproach that can be addressed to him. An impregnancy such as this means that efforts that should be considered immediately will be postponed, in particular by making better use of other plates, as we have said enough, speculators for example. Strengthen the fight against tax fraud. When I talk about speculators, I'm not talking about the "fights and traps" that are being presented to us by the government. So I believe that today we are in a situation where the government is caught up in the facts. I thank Mrs Wilmès for having had the frankness to say that there are two billion missing. At least the debate is clarified. But let us at least be methodical and present up-to-date budget tables; let us know exactly what the government's roadmap is; let us have a debate-truth; let us get out of deceit. It's only legitimate, Mr. President, and you know it! On every occasion, in plenary, in this committee, we have asked for information. We were also the first to say "attention, you overestimate your tax revenues", at least a billion to corporate tax that is not justified. Be careful, your policy will contract domestic demand. That means there will be less VAT revenue. What are we learning today? That the tax administration confirms what we've been saying from the beginning, that revenue estimates are overestimated in the head of government. Beyond the 2.8 billion we are talking about, we must therefore expect a few billion more by 2019-2020. It is now high time to get out of this cover-up as a method of government. It is high time to present us, and I think it is legitimate to ask for it, with real figures that will allow us to have a real political debate. I repeat, the government is not in its first mistake. Do I have to recall the 750 million error towards the Regions? Should I recall that the Minister of Finance has never answered our questions about overestimation of tax revenues? What we are asking now is for the Michel government to stop telling people that it is going to give them 100 euros a month without telling them that in return, it is going to send them a more expensive bill for social security, public services, or even an increase in taxes on consumption, as if there were not enough already.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic258x.u2	Mr President, Madam Minister, the inquiry that I tabled last week followed the debate that we had here in committee with the Minister of Finance. This long debate last Wednesday left us all hungry because most of the questions we asked were not answered, so we had to question the credibility of this famous tax shift. Credibility on both objectives and means. On the goals, to date, the government is still unable to give us a few objectives that are somewhat credible in terms of job creation. But we know that it was the ultimate ambition, the leitmotiv. How many jobs are expected from this operation? This is a question that has been referred to the Office of the Plan and to the National Bank, and to which the government has not yet responded. Credibility on means since the financing of this tax shift, from the beginning, seems to us random, and last week's debate did not allow to remove the unknowns and concerns about a number of large items of this funding. I'm thinking about the back and forth effects. The Minister of Finance told us that they were calculated in a more measured way than in Austria. It's still unconvincing. We do not know the calculation methodology. Uncertainties about the expected returns of the fight against tax fraud. Is there a plan? Are there any measures? Or is it simply a figure that has been fixed so that the mounting can be closed? Uncertainties about the speculation tax, which raises many problems. Huge uncertainties about what you call the "redesign" of the state supposed to generate savings but without knowing what kind of measures will be understood under the term "redesign" of the state. Uncertainties about the other measures that from the outset appeared to be missing to fund the project. So it was in this context that I wanted to question the Minister of Budget and I thought we would have answers today. I confess that I was stunned last night when I discovered on the website of the newspaper Le Soir this announcement of the article published this morning, implying that the tax shift was not funded since there are two billion euros missing to close it. I tend to congratulate you on the frankness. It's pretty good for you. If we can, in this committee, work in transparency and have you say something as clear as that, I think it's no worse. But still, it seems to me to be a serious problem, not only in your head, but in the head of the whole government, a problem of coherence. We remember the Prime Minister's interventions in his policy speeches, telling us that in order to restore fiscal balance, everything had been quantified. We had columns, lines allowing us to say that, post by post, we had evaluated, parameterized, calculated, that there was no uncertainty. That was the dominant speech. And then, the new Budget Minister denies the Prime Minister and sows the trouble, since it is now objectively difficult to know whether the government is still so assertive about its calculations or whether it is facing great insecurity. Consistency problem, credibility problem. You have us, and I am thinking in particular of those responsible for your party, Madam Minister, sold, oversold the EUR 100 cheque. Mr. Ducrame told us that the government was working for purchasing power and put 100 euros on the table. A thirteenth month, said the Prime Minister. We now realize, simply on the basis of your statements, Madam Minister, that this cheque of 100 euros is a cheque without provision, a wooden cheque whose financing is not known. The third cause of dissatisfaction is that, obviously, funding is not being secured, so there will need to be a new round of savings and additional measures. A year ago, I was telling you that the budget and the budgetary perspective were anxious. You further reinforce this anxiety in that all these uncertainties are not removed and necessarily lead to a loss of confidence. We know that confidence is essential in economic and budgetary matters. It cannot be on the rendezvous when the population realizes that it has had to pay several times. It paid for the first time with the introduction of index jump, so-called austerity measures, assumed as such by the new majority at the beginning of the legislature. It pays a second time with the rain of taxes that have been decided to partially offset the tax measures which have come into force and which weigh on consumption. It is a choice that can be made and assumed, but it does have a negative impact on the population. The public now knows, because you candidly say it, that it will have to pay a third time because what has been promised as a gift is not funded. How will she pay him? Will these be new taxes? Will these be savings in the departments? Last week I heard prominent members of the majority say that in terms of linear savings, and that was the government's course of action a year ago, we had reached the limit and that we were now unable to continue to apply this method. But it was announced for the full term of the legislature. It took a year to bury this approach, which we told you from the beginning that it was not tenable because it lacked finesse, selectivity. Here, these linear measures are apparently no longer relevant. What will replace them? What are the projects you are working on to generate the necessary budget savings to finance the tax shift? Without an answer to these questions, you will understand that we are unable to trust you. I am concerned about the budgetary neutrality of the reform, since you say that it is not guaranteed at the federal level. Let me tell you, on the occasion of this inquiry, that I am also concerned about the lack of neutrality of this reform for the other levels of power. A note from the FPS Finances circulated, which reveals significant shortfalls for the Regions and municipalities. The Minister of Finance, asked about it, did not answer anything, as if it were not his problem. You have suggested that you want to re-establish relationships of trust, if not collaboration, with other levels of power. Contacts have been made in this direction. That's a good sign. But what is your position on the impact of this tax shift on the regions and municipalities? Do you defend the principle of neutrality for these levels of power? Or consider that, in the same way as at the federal level, there is no assurance that the other levels of power can be satisfied with a funding problem that both will have to address according to their priorities, at the risk of encouraging local governments to raise their local taxes, which would completely contradict the will of the tax shift. How do you respond to these concerns that the Unions of the cities and communes of this country have expressed forcefully to the Prime Minister? There is every reason to believe that each will be returned to its copy and that the decisions taken by the government will have to be taken by the others. This tax shift gives me the impression of being a train thrown into the fog. For a positive advertising effect, for a gift offered to the public, that of uncertainties! The shock in return won't be long. I would like you to reassure us as to how you are going to ameliorate this shock, to cash it out without it being again the people of this country who are called upon to pay for the decisions you make.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic258x.u3	Mr President, Madam Minister, I would like to take this contrast from the tax shift between the ubiquitous communication of the government to the media – which sometimes confines itself to the generalities and sometimes chooses to focus on specific measures – and the weakness of the transmission of accurate and complete information to Parliament, which would like to know the scope and budgetary implications of this reform. Unfortunately, we only receive piecemeal information and global amounts. Various elements still thicken the fog. I am thinking of the mix between the tax shift 2, the real tax shift, and the re-invented tax shift 1 in one direction or another of budgetary adjustments. From year to year, we move forward and back – which would almost make me think of a little song... We were presented with this as a tax transfer, which was supposed to increase certain taxes and reduce others, so that the transaction would have been balanced. Of course, we find everything except that in this tax shift. Madam Minister, you said in Today's Evening: "It's not funded; it's not a secret. No one claimed the opposite to have to find two billion." It was this morning. Then, at noon, a Belga dispatch fell: your colleague Mr. Van Overveldt said: "Geen gat in taxshift". You're telling us there's a two-billion hole, while the finance minister says there's none. If we were in the Dutroux Commission, I would say, "One of you is lying." In any case, there is a gap in government communication. Rather, I tend to believe you and trust you more, minister. Maybe you're making a miscommunication, but you don't do it by saying there's at least two billion missing. Finally, what does this show? Quite simply, the great mystification of this tax shift. Indeed, the Prime Minister promises the population to offer it 100 euros... but - first reserve - by snooping in the pockets of it in other ways, in the form of indirect taxes on consumption, in the form of a reduction in public spending, which always has a cost to the population. The total will therefore be higher than 100 euros since it is also necessary to give 2 billion gifts to employers! The population will not necessarily be there in this accounting exercise. The second reserve is that we give these 100 euros, but with the money of the Regions and the municipalities, who participate unwittingly in this effort. The third reservation is that we give these 100 euros, but not immediately! We'll have to wait a few years. The fourth reservation is that we give these 100 euros, but that we will have to pay it again in the years to come! Madam Minister, it is worrying to see these techniques, which consist of making budgets quite optimistic at first, but which are then followed by adjustments or tax shifts which amount to billions. The consequence is that people will pay indirect taxes and there will be a "massacre at the chainsaw" in the public services. During the debate in committee on potpourri 2, the minister began by saying that it was a budgetary reform. All your reforms are budgetary. It costs the population billions and I will add a threat to social security when we see the decline in social contributions. My demands are of two kinds. With regard to transparency, it is necessary to have a precise scope of the tax shift and a detailed breakdown of the measures in order to know how much each of them will cost over the years. There is also a need for a clear fiscal trajectory, which is all but the case today. Finally, it is necessary to clarify all the shade zones, such as these magical feedback effects. We know that in fiscal years, a magic wand is always used to fill holes! Even more worrying, there are these redesigns that will participate in what I call "the chainsaw massacre" in the public services. My second requirement is to know who will pay for the hole you estimate to be at least 2 billion: the 99% of the population or the richest 1%? One little thing: since you're in charge of the budget, I'll give you a figure that's worth what it's worth. The richest 1% of the population, do you know how much it owns in heritage? EUR 420 billion in assets. The richest 1% of the population: 420 billion! That's as much as the 60 per cent of the population has. Don't you think that if you still have to find two billion, you would have to do what the tax shift has not done so far, as some coalition parties demanded: actually go get that money from the 1% of the population that is the most wealthy. Besides, it would please the N-VA. I remind you that Bart De Wever had said: "If I am shown that there is a way to get money from the 1% of the richest population, I sign!" Specifically, the PTB has tabled a bill on a millionaire tax that will seek money from the richest 1%. If you want to co-sign the law... (Mr. Van Hees bleeding from the nose) Excuse me, you see, I've got blood on my hands! Mr. Clarinval was right!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic258x.u4	Minister, thank you very much for this transparency. This morning, in Le Soir, you referred to the comments we made here in connection with the debate we had last Wednesday with Mr. Van Overtveldt, i.e. the tax shift account was not good. I followed the government press conference very carefully. He refused to come here to explain himself to the parliament, but he announced on 20 July and 14 October many good news, which proved very quickly to be half-good news, but he did not want to give us anything other than this table to explain to us what this tax shift was and the balance found. Minister, this is a zero-sum game! A transfer which, in total, allows the State to retain the same means. Thus, the contributions paid by the workers are reduced and are offset by other revenue which makes it possible to finance the essential tasks of the State and social security. If we don't, we risk a deficit. There is therefore a need for a balance between revenue and new expenditure. What you called tax shift has rather been preceded by bad news about state revenues. Prior to the tax shift, this government overestimated the revenues in question. Did he do it on a voluntary basis? Is the decline in tax revenues linked to the austerity measures you have taken and the slowdown in the economy? That is a point that needs to be clarified. As far as we are concerned, we have been asking the government – we have asked the Minister of Finance again last Wednesday – to shed some light on us and to tell us whether the account is good or not, and if not, to tell us what the stabilizing mechanisms are. Last Wednesday, Mr. Van Overtveldt, despite the fact that he was accompanied by many collaborators, did not answer our questions or did so using slogans. He explained to us that 500 million euros would be saved in public services through bundled markets. Perhaps this is about toilet paper or other supplies. In any case, this is a significant amount. What is behind this new design? What could he explain to us about the decline in tax revenues? In any case, we have not received an answer to these questions. Today, unlike you, he continues to say that the amount of 2 billion euros in question is not correct. I'm quoting the Belga dispatch that just fell. [[Who's right?]] Is that the Minister of Budget? Is it the Minister of Finance? This is an issue that needs to be clarified with regard to its consequences. Minister of the Budget, it often happens that your party members present themselves as fiscal hawks, good managers who want to limit the government's deficit and in doing so, the interest to be paid to our creditors. However, the government is creating gaps today with the application tomorrow of unfair new taxes, new economic measures that will hit the most fragile, public services or mobility, as has already been decided with more than 2 billion savings in SNCB, more than 3 billion savings in social security. This is not serious! Worse still, it is not fair because it is the most fragile and essential services, particularly in relation to our climate goals, that are affected. So this morning, you were announcing this $2 billion hole. In fact, this is likely to be a minimum of EUR 2.8 billion, if we continue along the same lines, which we regret, of a reduction in tax revenues that will be lower than the government's forecast. Just imagine what Mr. Van Overtveldt would have written if he was still a journalist today, of a government that has such frightful figures. Imagine it! In the majority, we hear different sounds. I have quoted this fundamental disagreement, which is not trivial, between Mr. Van Overtveldt and yourself. Do you assume two expressions that are so different today? There's an unfunded part. Mr. Van Overtveldt says "no, the 2 billion are there". I would refer to the statements of the chairman of this committee, a week ago, to the newspaper La Libre: it is rather on your line. Mr. Van Rompuy had intellectual honesty to say that the tax shift was not funded. He appealed to our memory by drawing up a typology of the various budget ministers. It was pretty interesting. He quoted his brother Herman, whom he likes to quote, and it is very good to have brotherly respect. He also quoted Mr. Vande Lanotte, to whom he could not be suspected of anything. He stated that it was ministers of the budget who controlled their figures and had an influence on policies. He also quoted - under his responsibility, but I can follow him in his analysis - Mr Chastel and Mr Jamar, who were a bit of a blow and were suffering the events. I don't want to be distracted. I'll give you the benefit of the doubt. I don't know where to rank you, minister. However, in reading your somewhat notarial statements this morning, finding that there were two billion missing, I had the impression that you are rather in the camp of impotence in relation to these figures which are really worrying for the budgetary future of our State. We fear all the consequences of poorly controlled budgets. So we have a specific request. This has already been expressed, but I will re-express it. We obtained, at the beginning of the legislature, the initial multi-year budget tables of the government, by Mr.Jamar, who had the merit of transmitting them to us. It is an essential document that we have been working on since the beginning of the legislature and in relation to which we have made an effort to develop an alternative budget. We want to get, rather than those five lines that we received ten days ago, the table that is facing you. What are you waiting for to adjust it? We want to obtain this picture so that we can carry out our work of democratic and budgetary control. This is the first task of a parliament: to check the effectiveness and veracity of a government's figures. We want to get this budget table adjusted so that we can hold a quality debate, which has not been allowed so far despite your multiple communications. We want it to be a real debate, to measure the extent to which the account is good or not, and to see with you what adjustments are necessary to avoid monstrous deficits tomorrow, which will result either in new unfair taxes - we have seen how you work - or in reductions in essential expenditure in terms of mobility or solidarity. That is the request we make in the motion for recommendation that I have submitted. Provide us with the numbers and an account that is correct.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic258x.u5	Madam Minister, I too would like to congratulate you, not only on your appointment, but also on the openness with which you are taking up office. What we have been able to read in the newspaper this morning is something the opposition has repeatedly said. It was wiped away every time, but the government has actually said so. The notifications of 28 August, after one of the many budgetary discussions, literally state: "Firstly, the second package of the tax shift is being implemented, the state of the budget and the implementation of structural reforms will be monitored. In other words, Madam Minister, we already knew at that time that there was a problem. What you said in the newspaper this morning and what the President said last week was already clear to everyone: there is a shortage. You, as the Minister for the Budget, confirm that. However, we must note, Madam Minister, that not more than an hour ago a Minister of your government, the Minister of Finance, said that there is no shortage at all. At 24 hours this government succeeds once again in sending two different messages to the population. Minister Van Overtveldt says: "The tax shift is fully funded until 2018. In fact, Minister Van Overtveldt says that Mrs Wilmès does not yet understand it. I cannot interpret it any differently, Madam Secretary, but I agree with you. You have already heard the previous speakers. In fact, everyone agrees with you and the chairman of this committee. It would be a good thing for the government not only to give the people the right figures and at least to give Parliament the right figures, but also to look at how it will solve the problems in advance. Well, that hasn't happened before. We will not talk about the climate, we are talking about the budget, but there is also disagreement about this. The worst thing, Madam Minister, is, of course, that the government has been telling the people for a long time that they will get something from them. What one will get and when one will get it, however, always becomes more unclear. It's always put later in time. Moreover, the government still does not know how it will finance this. However, measures to reduce the purchasing power of our people, families and pensioners have already been introduced immediately. The index jump has already been made. The VAT increase on electricity has also been approved. There's gonna be a sugar tax, and so on. All these measures are being dealt with very quickly by Parliament, because they must be implemented immediately. However, the compensation which is always being discussed is being postponed. The government does not yet know how that compensation will be financed. Madam Minister, we are asking for clarification on this point. We also call for precise figures to be given. In this context, I would like to quote Prime Minister Michel once again. On 13 October, he said very triumphantly that we were all happy at the beginning that we would all get a table of changes to the previous budget when we left the House. But actually, as the Prime Minister said, nothing has changed, because in the future only a few minor changes would happen. The original table is thus retained, the Prime Minister said. Now I will also quote, because two days later, the Prime Minister literally said the following. "I now come to the table on the tax shift. I take the president of the assembly as a witness. We distributed this table at the end of July. The tax shift table has not changed since, with a reservation that I mentioned in the government statement, namely that first, we add an additional 300 million euros in 2018 and 2019, and second, we use the 2020 purchasing power envelope of 8500 million euros as of 2019. These are the only changes." Madam Secretary, you may have already looked at both tables. I think you should see with me that there are differences. Not only do the tables differ, there are also differences with the PowerPoint presentation which the government presented to the journalists when announcing the taxshift agreement. I'll give you a few figures. There are more than one for illustration. For the ecotaxes and health taxes, 1.1 billion euros were registered in July for the period 2015-2020. In the PowerPoint, there is suddenly EUR 2.7 billion. Another item is capital taxes. In July, there was EUR 1.5 billion in capital taxes and EUR 2.4 billion in October, a difference of almost EUR 1 billion. This government doesn't like any of that. Moreover, in July, tax fraud was still part of that EUR 1.5 billion, but in the PowerPoint tax fraud was removed, and the difference is considerable, because in July, EUR 175 million of it was provided for in revenue and in October, it suddenly amounts to EUR 525 million. Another example is the redesign, which, according to the July table, amounts to EUR 750 million for the 2015-2020 period, whereas according to the October PowerPoint, it would only yield EUR 500 million. In short, not only does this government not succeed in communicating clearly whether or not there is a deficit. On top of that, different figures are given, while the government claims that this is the same table. Now it is possible that we may misread the tables and that other things will be added together, but I hope you will understand that this is not how we as Members of Parliament can work. If we do not get the right figures, we will not be able to make a proper analysis. Madam Secretary, I actually have two questions for you. In this morning's Conference of Presidents, we heard that we will have the budget on 13 November. I would remind you that it is more than a month too late. The law stipulates that Parliament must have the budget on 15 October. So you're already a month late. Madam Minister, I hope that you will bring the right figures. With all the tables that we have already received in mind, I hope that you will provide us with an improved table in which both the tax shift and the other measures are presented very clearly. Madam Minister, I also hope that you will continue to show the honesty you have shown today. How will the tax shift be financed and how will it be translated into the population? The important thing is not just to bring good news shows anymore, but to say clearly what the people are up to. If we have any savings, we'd like to hear them now. We like that they are not put away behind a number of other things. Let's be clear about that. What you give to the people, you delay. What you take from the population, you do today. That is a political choice of this government. Madam Minister, I hope that you will defend that choice and not try, like some other members of the government, to cover it up or to cover up the way that will happen. Thank you again for your honesty and for the answers you will give later.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic258x.u6	Mr President, Minister, on behalf of CD&V, I have to say that it is untenable for the government if it goes budgetaryally out of control now that the Socialists are not present. I agree with what my fellow Members have said. You come out with an honest communication. In your case, I wouldn't do anything else. That's a good thing for you, and that's a good thing. But something did happen today. Several statements have been made on the budget. It would also be unsustainable for CD&V should the government go budgetary. As the Minister responsible, can you confirm that you will follow the course? It is not just a question of the government achieving the structural balance in 2018, but also of doing what it has promised Europe, in particular implementing the Stability Programme. It clearly states that by 2015, the structural balance is limited to 1.7 % deficit and that the balance of claims will be maximum 2 % by the end of the year. This will be reduced step by step by 0.7 % per year, 0.6 % to 0 in 2018. So I am not only looking for a political answer to the question of whether the government still supports achieving the structural balance in 2018, but also whether it will follow the path it promised Europe just a few weeks ago. This means that for this year, the balance of loans and advances of a maximum amount shall be equal to 2,0%. Following that, I also have questions about the financing of the tax shift. The Monitoring Committee issued an update 2015-2016 on 22 September. Table 1 on the structural balance on page 6 shows four sub-tables. The third of the four sub-tables is called "impact/government measures on balances' and there are figures of EUR 540 million and EUR 1.7 billion respectively for September 2015 and September 2016. This table refers to the measures taken under the tax shift as explained on page 5 of the monitoring committee document of 22 September. I sent you that table just for the record. Unless I read it wrong, we can conclude that this tax shift has had a positive effect on the government budget of 540 million euros in 2015 and of 1.7 billion euros in 2016. That's another story, isn't it? This would mean that the tax shift would take away resources from the economic circuit, which would then go to the budget. I would like to make this clear politically. I would also like to know what the breakdown of these amounts is between, on the one hand, cost savings and, on the other hand, revenue increases. That's obvious, I think. I share the admiration of my fellow Members for your openness, but I am structurally concerned about the budget. Will we achieve the balance by 2018? Are we still on track as we promised Europe not so long ago? Or should we admit that we already have an anomaly? That is an important political question for CD&V.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic258x.u7	There are a number of groups that have not yet taken the floor. Anyone who has not submitted an interview or a question shall be given five minutes to make a statement. I am now giving the floor to those who need it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic258x.u8	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this government has made a very strong commitment to improving the situation of those who work and who have worked, in its coalition agreement and in its implementation with the tax shift. Moreover, it has made the same commitment to the companies which are at the root of the welfare state and of the prosperity that we all enjoy today. This commitment has not been maintained and it is intended to be implemented. The government has the openness to share its plans in an integral way, not only with Parliament, but also with the people. I understand that it has not been possible to implement it fully to date, given the short time available. Not only the Group of the European People's Party, but all the other groups would naturally like to see the budget submitted and approved not only as soon as possible, so that further work can be carried out, but also, provided that a number of drafts are implemented, on the commitments made by the government. We must wait for the figures in the budget to be submitted to Parliament and the texts of the drafts to the committees in order to be able to work in concrete terms. Criticism in advance brings nothing to the man in the street, the one about whom it is ultimately about. I know that friction creates light and that it is a pleasure to try to turn the members of the government against each other by pulling all kinds of statements out of context and increasing figures. That gives the employee nothing concrete on his paycheck. What we have seen so far is that the commitments made at the beginning of the legislature have been implemented. Has the deduction of flat-rate professional costs been increased or not? I can only conclude that it was indeed raised. I heard the word index jump drop. I'm glad to hear you say it here, Mrs. Temmerman. It is always said that the index jump cost the people money and did not teach them anything. I hear you now about the index jump. Well, in some cases, these cases have compensated each other. In some cases the index jump would not even have been a fact. That is where a net profit was made. As far as the other measures announced by the government are concerned, at least give it time and confidence to work on the plans it has implemented. As far as the figures are concerned, Madam Minister, I hope that you will explain to Parliament, as it should be, what you meant by what you said or did not say in the media. I'll listen to you. I have every confidence that you, together with the team, will offer the solutions the population is waiting for.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic258x.u9	Mr President, I shall begin with a quote from a high socialist priest. Mr. Moureaux said that "everything that is excessive is insignificant." I believe that as Halloween approaches, some people feel the desire for a museum of horrors. Mr. Van Hees even pulled out the chainsaw. We saw that it did not succeed! We are talking about a budgetary problem. I would like to thank my colleagues for the elegance they have shown in relation to the minister, who, just recently arrived, has been clear and clear in her vocabulary. Clearly, there are still misunderstandings about the government's message. The minister will explain to you that the figures and the speech are the same. You need that to be made clear. She said it this morning, she'll confirm it to you. In October, a correction of 900 million was made in 2015. The government corrected, in one night, about the equivalent of a billion. Making a projection on 2017, 2018 and 2019 knowing that there will be revenue to find, this is not a problem. This is an exercise that all governments are doing. On the other hand, we know that the fiscal year is an annual one. All five-year projections can be made; in the communes they are also made. This does not remove the annuality of the budget and the need to operate as well, and not only, year by year. The government made a projection. He knows there'll probably be some recipes to find. [[Protest]] The only thing we are certain of with your policy is that there are taxes to be put in place! When we change politics, when a new policy is developed, when we want to transform society and its functioning and develop activity, when we realize a €7 billion shift tax, we think it will produce effects. You think the opposite! We believe that this will produce effects! In the budget estimate, indeed, the return effect has been minimized, tax revenues resulting from the fight against fraud in particular have not been overvalued. If this had been overstated, you would have been critical. Now that this is undervalued, you're also criticizing! We make a reasonable revenue budget and we make a realistic spending budget. We believe that the government's policy will have a return effect. Having a correction of one billion by 2017, 2018 and 2019 on an annual budget of 170 billion euros is not a disaster! It's less than 1%! It is the role of a government to adjust its budget to the economic context. The minister will explain it to you, the language of the government is clear. To say that there is uncertainty about revenue does not question policy and the proposed tax shift. You're trying to shake demons as Halloween approaches, but this is really not the time to do it, because we have a clear vision. When we talk of revenue falling on local authorities and regional entities, first of all, we must take on the reforms of the State that have been implemented. We're witnessing some sort of schizophrenia. You say, "The tax shift is too little." In the Region, they say, "Tax shift is too much." You should know what you want, because you have a different language depending on the level of power! We believe that the policy implemented by the government will produce effects and that the effects will also be fiscal. As the Prime Minister said, we're going to check annually that we're on track and that we're going to achieve the goals. Minister, I am not going to ask you thirty-six questions like my colleagues. Could you explain to our colleagues that government language is a clear language, but it needs to be explained. [[Laughs]] Some people understand quickly, you have to explain at length to others. I think the minister's article this morning was remarkable. The minister will explain to you the consistency between the two statements.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic258x.u10	Is the N-VA asking for the floor? A technical suspension of 5 minutes is requested.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic258x.u11	Mr President, for the record: is Minister Van Overtveldt coming at 3:30 p.m.?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic258x.u12	I'll send for him when we're done here.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic258x.u13	It would be interesting to hear both opinions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic258x.u14	He's expected at 3:30 p.m. after the questions to Minister Wilmès have been dealt with. I did not ask Minister Van Overtveldt to be here at the same time as Minister Wilmès. Both are clearly separated on the calendar, but I understand your question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic258x.u15	I still have a personal fact, because I am constantly referred to. I've been talking about risque I didn't say it's impayable, but it might be. , unless economic growth remains below 1,5%. Without strong economic growth, and I think this is the logic itself, tax revenue will have to come to a level of normal trend growth in order to make the business affordable. That doesn't change the fact that it's interesting. We read the interview with the minister in Le Soir, I also read Minister Van Overtveldt's reply to Belga's message. For this we have a parliamentary committee, the Minister is here for the first time and so she can put things in order in relation to what is in the press, because what is in the title is not always what is in the interview. So, Minister, you will have the opportunity to clarify this debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic258x.u16	Ladies and gentlemen, I want to tell you how happy I am to be with you today. I remember with happiness the constructive exchanges, even though they were sometimes quite lively, that we had together. Indeed, I have not yet had the opportunity to address you in this committee, but this is the first time that I have been summoned. I am at the service of Parliament and, of course, whenever you consider it necessary, I will come to explain what will have to be done. I would also like to remind you that the government spoke during the plenary session and the policy statement. After that, we had the opportunity to debate thematically. I was present all day and ready to respond to you in plenary session on the finance and budget theme. Finally, Parliament decided not to continue the debates, which I fully respect, since I remind you that I am at your disposal. In his inquiry, Mr Laaouej spoke of a lack of prudence, a lack of seriousness. Worse, he even talks about deception. I absolutely cannot accept these terms. You can see that the government is showing absolute transparency. Why? Because the government provided parliamentarians, as early as the July conclave, with extraordinarily detailed, line-by-line documents, measures to be taken and their performance. When we discussed the fiscal adjustment in October, you received the document on this fiscal adjustment. About the corrections of the 995 million in 2015 and the 343 million in 2016, I cannot invent what does not exist. You have been given the corrections to the budget for fiscal consolidation, nothing else is possible. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that the preparation of a budget is not a single and fixed exercise. We must accept that a budget evolves over time. But you also have to agree to stop at some point, to make a photo, to identify the vision so that you can express yourself on it. Indeed, when making a budget, we are thinking of a permanent monitoring which will enable us to monitor the evolution of expenditure as best we can, to ensure that revenue returns are effective. As has been the case since the dawn of time, if a positive or negative deviation from the trajectory were to occur, responsible government should take action. I'm not teaching you anything. In my role as Minister of Budget, I do not close my eyes. Neither does the government. He takes on his responsibilities as he has always done. And the communications that were made in October do not in any way derogate from the reality of the paintings and are absolutely contradictory with the expression that I gave in the newspaper this morning. I'll explain to you why during my presentation. The objective of the October Conclave was twofold: it was to cope with the announced decline in revenues to ensure fiscal consolidation – this is the picture that Mrs Temmerman showed earlier; it was also to determine the modalities for implementing the tax shift II since the funding modality and the table of the conclave had already been distributed to you. When we determine the modalities, this table can evolve at the margin; I'll talk to you about it later. So these are two tables which complement each other, but which do not envisage things from the same angle: the one of the conclave is a July table which focuses on the modalities of the tax shift and the other focuses solely on the effort of the monitoring committee which was to be made. This is how the government worked. I would also like to remind you of the transparency in the pluriannuality of the tables. Indeed, when we limit ourselves, as we have done before, to presenting budgets for the year +1, i.e. only for the year, we do not take great risks at the level of the trajectories because they are more secure than if we work on tables of three or four years. That is an objective fact that we must be able to accept. For the table on fiscal consolidation, you will see several points because I know you have questions about this table. The exercise began with technical corrections. The first concerned advance payments on intercommunals. The monitoring committee had not taken into account any advance payments from the intercommunals in its estimate, although it appears that we will still have one. Taking this information into account, the technical correction was carried out for an amount of 30 million euros in 2015.Another technical correction concerns bpost. The government has made a bpost indexation correction that it has actually added to the table, as it is an additional expenditure. As for the assessment of the speculative tax, the return was initially estimated at EUR 28 million. It was revalued at EUR 34 million. This is why you find an additional €6 million in the technical corrections. With regard to the IPS envelopes, there was also a technical correction because, in the monitoring committee, the IPS had submitted an additional request for a budget which had in fact not been accepted by the government. This has been corrected due to competition. This is for the technical corrections that will be deduced from the effort of the monitoring committee. From the moment these technical corrections have been estimated, the measures you find in the table will be taken. With regard to the VAT correction: when VAT on electricity increased from 21 % to 6 %, the Monitoring Committee considered the reimbursement of 249 million to be a structural refund. Since this decline is not structural, we have corrected it all the more. There are two effects in regulation. The stock effect of 111 million had been taken by the monitoring committee in improvement of the nominal balance and had not considered it structural. As we have structured this regularisation, it therefore improves the structural balance all the more. The additional $73 million is the re-evaluation of what is in the pipeline today. This corresponds to an objective reality. Diesel ratchet, excise duty on alcohol. You have also seen it in the press, the decision is to raise the excise duty on alcohol and ratcheting from November 1, 2015. Yields are recorded. With regard to the banking tax, we had forecasted a return of 100 million. We realized that we might not achieve this performance. The scope of this bank tax should therefore be expanded. The widening of the scope of the banking tax to ensure the return of 100 million also has an impact on the expected returns in 2016. In the table (July), the pre-payment measure of furniture was also advanced from 2017 from 25 to 27%. This is how it is found in the chart you received in October. Under-utilization and budgetary prudence: This is a re-estimate of the natural under-use of FPS. Add an additional $50 million to this figure as a result of the budget prudence circular we have adopted. Some expenditure is related to the asylum crisis. The Monitoring Committee had considered them to be structural. On several occasions, we have made it clear that this is an exceptional and temporary exit. You are aware that discussions with European bodies are still ongoing. An interview published yesterday attempted to demonstrate that we were going to take the same direction. This is important, because if such an expenditure is to cut the budget while being considered in calculating the improvement of structural balances, we will be judged on the basis of this increase which most States consider exceptional. That's for the painting you received this month. As for the July one, I confirm what the Prime Minister said. Again, we act in transparency and pluriannuality. You have all received this document, which contains extremely precise figures.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic258x.u17	This one? But it's from July.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic258x.u18	It dates from the July conclave. I repeat. Don't try to look for another painting that doesn't exist. What did we explain at the press conference? We have said that this table differs from the previous one. It is a matter of fulfilling our commitment to purchasing power, which is fundamental in terms of economic recovery. How does the envelope look? First, citizens' purchasing power is being increased to boost domestic consumption, which Mr Laaouej is so often concerned about, because disposable income will be higher. Secondly, we are reducing employers' contributions in order to boost employment, which will create PPI and therefore bring additional income to the state, from which entities II will benefit, but I suggest that you talk about it a little later. You see, on this second table, a shift of 850 million 2020 towards 2019. This will have a clear impact on the balance to be financed. We have also announced an additional 150 million. The expectations we have presented in the budget adjustment table are the changes that need to be made. We had already planned, as Mr Laaouej pointed out, measures to be taken in the amount of EUR 1 billion for 2018. If you make your accounts, these additions make a difference: two billion in 2018 and three billion in 2019. It's mathematical. There's no perlimpinpin powder or shadow zone, far from there. This state of affairs is fully assumed. We should also be aware that positive measures will have a return effect. Mr. Van Overtveldt explained that they would be moderate. Studies have shown us that with equal intervention, we can take more. We have solved the 2015 budget. The one from 2016 is on the way. We'll be back on the date of his deposit, Mrs. Temmerman. As I said, there's a differential. This $2 billion differential in 2018 must be put in perspective against an annual budget of $170 billion. Don't forget the efforts of the monitoring committee, the budget conclave, we haven't invented them now. In October 2012, 3.7 billion efforts to be made, according to the monitoring committee. In June 2013, 3.3 billion efforts to be made according to the monitoring committee. In July 2014, 5.3 billion. In July 2015, etc., etc. I am not talking about now, where the government is showing absolute transparency, but at the time, when the budgets were being voted on, I am not convinced that there was already an announcement of possible gaps. The budget was voted and then there were monitoring committees. To blame this government for a lack of seriousness, inaccuracy and, worse, deception is to push the plug a little far from the commitment of this government. I tell you right away, with great respect and friendship, that I do not agree at all. After that, I don't minimize either. We must shoulder our responsibilities, there is a budgetary heading to be taken, which is very important. We must be honest, transparent, say things, but we must not scare the citizens to do a political blow. It's not very responsible. I would also like to remind you of the measures that are being taken. The government made a clear choice, we talked about it: to increase the purchasing power of lows and wage means. I still remember discussions with Mr. Laaouej, who explained that the lower the disposable income, the more the increase in disposable income could have an extraordinarily positive effect on economic recovery. That's what we do. I hope, Mr. Laaouej, that you will follow us. It's a clear commitment. No one is conceiving, considering that this commitment will be revisited. I recall that someone who reaches 2,100 euros gross will earn an additional 120 euros by 2019. For 1,500 euros gross, we are talking about 140 euros. I'll tell you again that the lower the wages, the greater the differential. This greatly revives the economy. As far as the employer's burden is concerned, do not forget this measure which I find fundamental, and I think you all agree with me: the exemption for the first job, for the first recruitment. This will have a huge positive influence on the financial route, the budget route. Of course, we will also be marked by macroeconomic effects. We don't live on an island. But all these back effects, all these positive effects, must be taken into account. We cannot forget them because we want to devote ourselves to the title of the article that is buzzing. I think the complexity is more important. As far as the consequences for entities II are concerned: yes, there is a cost to entities II, as well as the federal one, which also carries a significant cost. This cost exists. But there are positive effects. The positive effects I've been talking about, do you really think they're stopping at the federal door? They will also, as a matter of priority, positively influence the Regions and the municipalities. As you rightly say, we have re-established our relations. According to my Walloon colleague, "the plug is reconnected with the federal government". I'm not sure she was really disconnected. But everything is fine, we are talking and trying to explain the technical consequences of a particular measure. Even in these discussions, they recognize the existence of positive, and probably very positive, effects. For the ease of budgeting of entities II, the objective is to work together on the objectivation of these effects. Obviously, in addition to the economic effects that I was talking about, there are direct effects. Here we are talking about the reduction in VAT on school buildings, the measure you are saying, but which has had a significant effect on local and regional public finances, the index jump, and the Cayman tax. The latter will also have positive effects in terms of PPI. Regularization will have positive effects on inheritance rights. All of these positive effects do not make us deny the existence of a cost, as the federal government does. We have made a commitment between entities II and the federal government to work together. Mr Bogaert, you have asked me two questions. You asked me whether it was the intention to maintain the structural improvement. Of course, that's still the point. This is also part of the draft budgetary plan, in which we state that our measures for the 2015-2016 period represent a structural improvement of 0.6%. The figures are correct and the budget is complete. However, as every year, the European Commission will monitor and evaluate our draft budgetary plan. We expect an interesting meeting on this subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic258x.u19	Madam Secretary, you're actually confirming...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic258x.u20	I'd rather not be interrupted, please.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic258x.u21	Ladies and gentlemen, we are giving the Minister an opportunity to give her full explanation. After that, Members may ask for the floor for a reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic258x.u22	Mr President, the Minister had made her point.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic258x.u23	Mr Laaouej is burning in his seat to replicate.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic258x.u24	I'm not burning, but...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic258x.u25	Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic258x.u26	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Bogaert, you also refer to the monitoring committee's report and its figures. To answer your question, I must point out that the monitoring committee's note was still based on the notifications of 28 August. Meanwhile, the government has taken a few more measures. The government is pursuing a dual objective in public finances. On the one hand, the deficit needs to be further reduced, according to the path set out in the stability programme presented last year. On the other hand, by shifting burdens, the government wants to strengthen the competitiveness of our companies and increase the purchasing power of our citizens. This double approach is illustrated in the July conclave tables and a distinction has indeed been made. Firstly, savings and more revenue should contribute to the further reduction of the deficit. You will find this in the 540 and the 1 756, to which you refer. Secondly, there is the reduction in costs, both in terms of increasing purchasing power and in terms of increasing competitiveness, and in terms of compensating for these lower revenues, through a shift in fiscal pressure. The figures you are referring to are the results of the recovery of the figures from the July table. There you will find the distinction between the additional costs and the savings. Mrs. Temmerman, I confirmed you in French. Maybe that'll do. After the Prime Minister's speech and after what I said this morning, you will see that we are absolutely on the same page. About your interplay about the differences in the numbers in the table you have and in the PowerPoint presentation, I can confirm that there are several differences. Those differences can be explained by either taking the 2018 figures or the 2019 or 2020 figures. The second and most important point is that you should also take into account the fact that everything was included in the PowerPoint presentation presented to the press, including the tax shift. That explains the difference between the numbers. As far as the presentation of the budget is concerned, I would ask Parliament to understand. I know that the budget had to be submitted on 15 October. We expect to be able to submit the budget on 13 November. Last year it was exactly the same date. I didn't choose that, but we had problems getting the numbers. Also remember that the modalities of the tax shift should be included in the 2016 budget. That makes it a little more complete. There is also the problem of the transfer to the regions and the Communities which takes some time. We also had to work a great deal to be on time for the Draft Budget Plan to be submitted on 15 October.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic258x.u27	Each group now gets five minutes for a reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic258x.u28	Mr President, first of all I would like to thank Mrs Wilmès for the explanations she has just given us and, above all, to ask her to avoid confusion which would not help to clarify the debate. Three distinctions must be made. The first was the budget hole that existed as early as July 2015. The tables provided in July show that this hole was already 1.7 billion. The second is the budget envelope which was added by the government from July to October to ensure that we are going to be able to grant EUR 100 to low and medium incomes. This additional envelope represents $1.1 billion that is not funded. It is therefore in addition to the budget gap that already existed in July. That is how we achieve an amount of 2.8 billion that is not financed. The third element - where the Minister's explanations introduce confusion - is the estimation of the budgetary performance of the measures that are being taken, either to ensure a return to balance by 2018 or to fund tax reform. She reviewed a series of measures by criticizing our remarks because she believes that these measures will have the expected performance. She told us about the Cayman tax, which we are told today in the press, that it will be legally disputed in the courts. She told us about the intercommunals with a correction of 30 million. That's not what will make a difference, but those 30 million, I can't find them in the tables. She told us about the tax regularization. In this regard, I would simply like to point out that this is not a cumulative measure. What has been regularized will no longer be regularized! These are one shot measures and it will be noted that some of these measures have been anticipated in terms of their performance. But I don't want to get into this debate right now. We will have it on the occasion of the budget review. What I mean is that regardless of this third point, which is about whether the performance of the planned measures is reliable or not, there is the $2.8 billion hole that comes from the budget hole already present in the July tables, to which we add $1.1 billion. That's where the problem lies! These 2.8 billion represent more than half of the tax reform. We are not going to be drowned in a debate that we are trying to extend to matters that are not the subject of our concerns today. In our view, it is not serious, not admissible to issue a message to make it appear that we will give 100 euros a month to people when the measure is not funded. In doing so, the bill will be sent to people later. We promise them 100 euros now, but they will pay it later by cuts in social security – whether we like it or not, we are talking about disposable income – or cuts in public services – this is the standard of living that is being reduced – or by tax increases. That's what you're being blamed for. I would add, Mrs Wilmès, that we are faced with a general context of deterioration of tax revenues, which is still confirmed today by the Department of Finance, which obviously aggravates the situation. We have figures that we will put on the table. This amounts to several billion euros on the entire budget path. The government lacks foresight and carelessness. I also maintain the term used. I want to talk about the word deceit. Why? I want to say first of all that words have a weight. Besides, we are responsible for the language we use and I assume my language. With this clarification being made, Madam Minister, when we do not finance such a tax reform, we must be able to tell people that they will still have to make efforts and that they will be involved in one way or another. I'm not going to be fooled either by the ideological presentation of things. I am not referring here to the political doctrine of the government, but to the economic ideology of the government, which is to say that we are going to revive the economy through index jumps. It should be noted that the index jump is first of all a deprivation of wages or a deprivation of a pension or an allowance. This has an impact on domestic demand. We will have this debate with the Minister of Finance, who really comes from the ideology of the supply economy. Indeed, he does not realize that we need, in order to boost the economy, to support the disposable income of households. The government is doing the opposite. But above all - and this is the second mystification finally - the 100 euros not financed for half, it is for the 2018-2019 horizon, while the rain of taxes is now: the increase of the VAT on electricity and the excise on diesel; the tax on sodas, etc. I maintain, Mrs. Wilmès, that you have a big problem. He does not reside in the head of successive budget ministers. He resides in the Prime Minister's political speech - certainly pushed in the back by his partners - which today is locked in an announcement effect. The announcement effects are certainly unique to all governments. Except here, we find ourselves in a situation that for some 20 years has never been equivalent: while we empty the state's coffers, we promise people things that we can't hold on to. That's what we're saying. For the rest, Mrs Wilmès is not alone. Mr. Van Overtveldt is on the back foot today. We will have a political debate with him and with the Prime Minister. He says everything's fine. It's his habit, anyway. Mrs Wilmès, from this point of view, is probably more responsible. But we will also have a broader debate. Mr President, you have experience and have seen tax reforms. When you say "without 2% growth, it may be impeccable," it's struck at the corner of common sense. However, we do not have those 2%. When the 2001 tax reform took place, there was 4 per cent growth. We're far from it! And the budget allegedly devoted to tax reform by this government is still higher than the budget for the reform voted in 2001. That's to say irresponsibility. The government really needs to get back on track. I really feel sorry for Mrs Wilmès, who is going to have to dress the Prime Minister's political child every time. It's starting to work. When we begin to repeat a whole series of approximations, or even figures that are not correct - I come back to the 750 million which the Regions have been deprived of - until we find that there was a mistake of 600 million; when we come with underestimations of tax revenues proved when the opposition had said so on several occasions - Mr President, you are witnessing this, I refer you to the preparatory work - when we come to add a budget envelope because we realized that we were not going to be able to deliver on the promises, yes, Mrs Wilmès, it is deceit. I apologize for having to say it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic258x.u29	Madam Minister, thank you for the exercise that you carried out and that was not without interest. You have taken up the July and October tables by commenting on certain lines. This is the exercise we should have done in July and at the time of budgetary control. Today, the subject is no longer quite that one. The subject is really about the fiscal reliability of the tax shift. We would have liked an updated document, a table to date with all the elements you bring and those that remain relatively undetermined. That is the meaning of the inquiry that I have tabled and that of the document that will be put to the vote. The Prime Minister said in his return statement: "Our project is not an accounting project." That sentence went a little unnoticed. Of course, I would like to believe that we need a little enthusiasm and give some energy and credit to the magic of the speech. Still, a little accounting cannot be detrimental, especially with regard to the budget. I therefore believe that it is necessary for you to come back quickly with more precise explanations. Even assuming that we are at a hole of 2 or 3 billion euros, I would like to admit that by comparing it to the overall budget of the federal state, this seems insignificant, but in relation to the mass of the tax shift, it is nevertheless much more substantial. Staying with this indetermination is very problematic. I also noted on the CD&V benches that Mr. Bogaert, in particular, expressed concern. I share this concern and consider that what you have said does not allow it to be lifted. Nothing about new estimates of tax evasion. Is there anything to suggest that we can boost the revenues expected in the fight against fraud? Nothing about the redesignation of the administrative services. We are still talking about hundreds of millions of euros. It is a line in the table that can be increased or decreased. Good if, in the end, it matches the figures but it will not have brought much information about the methods put in place to obtain savings. As for the return effects, you continue to believe it. It is to be expected that there will be effects, but according to what methodology of calculation, on the basis of what volume of job creation? You're not indicating anything about it. You also say that tax regularization will have positive effects. All this is a little of the order of incantation. Minister, I am a little concerned about the rigour that you must embody in your position. You're talking about a photo at regular intervals. Let me tell you that, for the time being, the picture is blurred and that we will not be able to satisfy ourselves with these approximations for each exercise. You're talking about a monitoring. For me, a monitoring is a kind of follow-up in the analysis of the numbers that will fall as they go. We're looking at some good news that will come sooner or later, some bad news that we'll try to correct. That's not quite reassuring. As Minister of Budget, you need to appeal to your colleagues more rigorously, otherwise you're giving the impression of letting go by saying that the situation is going to change, that the macroeconomic parameters will not be the same, that there will still be conclaves and that, as you move forward, you will be able to correct the shot. Personally, I believe that we need a clearer, more reliable strategy that allows us to verify that the objective of budgetary balance in 2018 is well in line. Mr. Piedboeuf said that we were on the ropes, but we would have to go back to the nails to have an element to believe that the budget targets will be met, otherwise we may be able to make you the trial of intent that you allow the federal state to lose. I am not doing so at this stage, but I am concerned about the medium term. We will have the opportunity to talk about it again, but if the idea is to let it come, to see what it will give in the light of the evolution of the parameters that we do not quite control, I fear that we will eventually accentuate some sort of delingual federal services. If that is not your goal, it may be that of your partners. But do not favour this approach with a form of laxity in the budget estimate and in the impact calculations, laxity that I find in relation to the effects on entity 2! In this regard, you say that there will be a cost and positive effects. I am not sure that this is such a way of convincing the local authorities, in this case, who have shown themselves to the Prime Minister this week to express their concern: 264 million, that is not nothing in the fiscal trajectory of the local authorities! For Walloon communes alone, the amount is 77 million. It is not by referring to tax regularization that you will reassure the local authorities. This would be more so by putting on the table compensatory measures aimed at reassuring budgetary neutrality. I have not heard anything in this regard about the concern expressed or the proposal to apply the reduction of the employer's burden to local authorities. It is a request that is very clearly stated. Why would local authorities, as employers, also not be able to benefit from the reduction of employers' burdens? If this measure is so positive and job-creating, why not apply it to them? This would generate an estimated 58 million euros in savings for Walloon cities and municipalities. This would not fully compensate the 77 million lost profits, but at least it would be a slightly more balanced approach. Otherwise, they're just words. I don't think we can be satisfied with this facade optimism. Behind it, real concern remains about the credibility of the figures and the reliability of the budgetary strategy that you will have to embody.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic258x.u30	Mr President, in relation to Mr Piedboeuf's statements, I have never said that these measures would have no effect! Government measures will have a particularly negative effect on the population but positive for employers. Indeed, they will receive a gift, as they have never received, in the form of reductions in social contributions. I believe that this constitutes a form of social security de-financing. This is in fact an indirect wage reduction. This is the whole liberal demagogy on taxation. As long as you play on the pocket salary, it has an effect. But if we reduce the gross wage as a whole, i.e. in the accounting of a company the total wage costs in item 62, this does not have an indirect effect on the wages of workers. That's another idea. The Minister said that these measures would benefit particularly low-income earners. I have to show my astonishment. It is not indirect taxes that will benefit low incomes. Everyone pays taxes on consumption, whether they are subject to personal taxes or not. The real tax shift measure, called tax shift 2, that is, the change in the personal tax scale, benefits the highest incomes. At the PTB, we calculated the impact of this reform of the PPI scales on deciles. The first two deciles, the least affluent 20% of the population, will not be affected by this change in scales. On the other hand, deciles 8, 9 and 10, the richest 30%, will have a tax gain twice as much as the intermediate deciles. The richest earn twice as much as the moderately rich. Poor people don't earn anything. I don't know how it can be said that it benefits the lowest incomes, it's exactly the opposite. What is also surprising is to hear you talk about measures that were considered structural and that are no longer structural or vice versa. I still did not understand how tax regularization became structural. The same applies to expenditure on asylum. The government as a whole seems to consider that they will no longer land in subsequent years. All of a sudden, the refugee crisis will disappear. It's pretty amazing. Especially since you do not count the invisible effects of the tax amnesty – that's how I'm talking about regularisation – that is, the green light given to fraudsters to defraud lightly, because they will always have the opportunity to regularize if they feel they need it. Somewhere, it's an incentive to fraud that's going to be expensive but it's a cost that you can't see, although it's no less real. You're telling us that we can't program everything over the years to come. But it's your tax shift that disturbs things. If it were really honest, you would not take measures that favour the population in time lag with measures that must be paid by the same population. The tax shift would be balanced year by year and no blank checks would be made over the coming years. Who's gonna pay those billions that's gonna be missing? That is the essential question. I'm not sure it will be the big fortunes, the ones that are part of the 1%, as I proposed earlier, even if I advise you to go see what their heritage represents. It would be interesting for you to know this because your job is still to find money! I find your answer a little short on the return effect. Can you commit yourself to the mayors of your party or those of the majority to not using your tax shift to justify the imbalance in their communal budgets? Can you guarantee that none of the mayors of the majority, or at least of your party, will come with this kind of argument when presenting the communal budget to its population? [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic258x.u31	There's one who's already committed, that's good! I'll make it up to you. You say that this return effect will be positive, but we have never had the demonstration that the positive return effect will be a reality. On the other hand, what is clear is that the negative effect, "the effect back in your face", if I can call it that, will be the drop in income that workers will suffer. This decline will represent as much less consumption. This will lead to recovery and must also be taken into account. I conclude by quoting your colleague the Minister of Finance, who no longer dares to say that the tax shift will create jobs. He says that perhaps, in the coming years, employment will decrease. We don't know how to predict it, because it depends on the global situation, etc. Apparently, the government no longer dares to say that employment will increase tomorrow thanks to the tax shift. It's pretty lamentable. This shows the very, very hypothetical character of your return effect.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic258x.u32	Ladies and gentlemen, there are still a number of replies to be made. I propose that after 15 to 20 minutes we proceed to the discussion of a number of drafts with the Minister of Finance. Then, if there is time left because Minister Van Overtveldt has to leave the meeting at 6.30 p.m., questions can still be asked. I also propose that the questions addressed to Minister Wilmès, at least those which were not converted into written questions, should be returned after all-holy leave.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic258x.u33	Mr. Chair, Minister, you really have an important role to play in this government. You propose a typology of the budget ministers in an interview: the ministers of the budget who have a real impact on the budget and those who see missiles passing, a little the notaries of the budget. I noticed in this interview that you gave the Evening a certain form of lightness, which may be nice about form, but which is really worrying for the search for serious budget management. I can quote you, this is not just the title we are calling into question. Perhaps you regret what you said, but when you say that "all this is not yet funded, we'll see when...", it's not reassuring. If we ask you for new paintings, there is a clear contradiction between your interview at the Evening – I'm not talking about the title, which you seem to question – and those July paintings. I'm only going to take one box from the table, minister, it's "2015-2018, balance equals 0". You are aiming for a budgetary balance over the next three years. In your interview, you assume that there will be a significant slippage anyway and that measures will have to be taken, which you do not know, which will, according to the logic that followed, be difficult for the citizens. A second element of the difference between this table and today is the measures taken after 21 July to clarify how reductions in social contributions for enterprises, reductions in PPI for workers and not for social beneficiaries and pensioners will be decided. The choices you made have a budgetary impact that exceeds the July forecast. That is why we need an updated table that would include the tax costs of the tax cuts you have decided on and how they are compensated, the social security costs of the reductions in social contributions that have been decided and how it is compensated for the financing of social security – otherwise in two years you are going to announce further reductions in pensions or replacement income. We must be able to see if the exercise is actually credible and balanced – as I said, a tax shift is a zero-sum game – or if there is a slip, and how it will be compensated as quickly as possible. Will it be compensated in a fair manner, with an efficient redistribution in economic terms and in relation to environmental issues? This is still an essential and legitimate question. This table, which you gave us in July, is overtaken by the facts, by your statements to the Evening, by the decisions after its distribution. We need, as a parliament, to be able to verify the credibility of the statements and you, as the minister of the budget, responsible for the fiscal trajectory, must have a monitoring tool. You're talking about transparency. I'm sorry, but it doesn't exist. This morning's statements are worrying. These budget gaps which you assume in a particularly light way announce extremely painful and problematic measures for the future of our economic system, on our essential functions of redistribution, of public transport. You are aware of our concern about the de-financing of SNCB. Please come back as soon as possible with a suitable multi-year table that takes into account bad news that comes one by one and shows the lack of credibility and lies by omission of your government.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic258x.u34	Madam Secretary, I have been studying the July table. Indeed, it states that there is EUR 2 billion to be financed by 2015-2020. That was actually already communicated, so you're certainly not making a mistake there. However, what strikes me in the table is that there is no figure in the 2019 and 2020 columns. I just noticed it now. There is nothing there, but it is worth EUR 2 billion if you add it up. There is 500 million euros for 2017 and 500 million euros for 2018. A total of EUR 1 billion has been added for the period 2015-2018. However, there is nothing in the 2019 cell and the 2020 cell, but I understand now that there should actually be EUR 1 billion in the 2019 column. Is that right? This brings a total of EUR 2 billion. The second question concerns the route to 2018. Fortunately, you confirm that the government is still going for the structural balance in 2018 and you confirm that this is how I understand the trajectory. You confirm page 16 of the report on the Stability Pact which we communicated to Europe in April. This means a maximum structural balance of -1,7 % in 2015 and a balance of -2,0 % for entity 1 "social security', departments and federal government "government'. That's not nothing, which is why I want a politically correct answer. Do you confirm that we are still on that trajectory or not? The third question concerns the EUR 540 million and EUR 1.7 billion in the table. I understand that measures have been taken, but is it true that with the tax shift we are taking money out of the economy, for EUR 0.5 billion in 2015 and EUR 1.7 billion in 2016? I have questions about this, which I may be able to translate into written questions later, but I would like a correct answer, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic258x.u35	We have now had a two-hour debate. The budget discussion and the tax shift will also come.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic258x.u36	Mr President, I have not received an answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic258x.u37	Mr Bogaert, there were interplays, to which the Minister replied, followed by the replies. We can conclude the debate here with the Minister. There will be many other debates where questions can be asked.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic258x.u38	In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. A first motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mr. Georges Gilkinet and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the questionings of Messrs. Ahmed Laaouej, Benoît Dispa, Marco Van Hees et Georges Gilkinet et de Mme Karin Temmerman and the response of the Minister of Budget, responsible for the National Lottery, asks the government 1. to provide Parliament with an update of the multi-annual table distributed in July 2015 and on 14 October 2015 fully reflecting the expected evolution of the federal government's revenue and expenditure as a result of the so-called tax shift operation; 2. ensure at least the budgetary neutrality of the financial year and the establishment of correction mechanisms, in particular to safeguard investment expenditure and the financing of social security." A first motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr Georges Gilkinet and reads as follows: "The Chamber, Mr Ahmed Laaouej, Mr Benoît Dispa, Mr Marco Van Hees, Mr Georges Gilkinet and Mrs Karin Temmerman and the reply of the Minister for the Budget, responsible for the National Lottery, asks the government 1. to update the multiannual table distributed in July 2015 and on 14 October 2015 with a full overview of the expected evolution of the revenue and expenditure of the federal state as a result of the so-called tax shift operation; 2. at least ensure that the exercise remains budgetaryly neutral and introduce corrective mechanisms to secure investment expenditure and social security financing." A second motion for recommendation was tabled by Ms. Karin Temmerman and Mr. Ahmed Laaouej and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the questionings of Messrs. Ahmed Laaouej, Benoît Dispa, Marco Van Hees et Georges Gilkinet et de Mme Karin Temmerman and the response of the Minister of Budget, responsible for the National Lottery, asks the government 1. to carry out regular monitoring of the budgetary situation as well as of the many returns announced and to come and present the results to Parliament every three months; 2. to re-evaluate a number of questionable budgetary returns and to take into account the deterioration of certain tax revenues in order to obtain a clarified budgetary framework and to come to the House Finance Committee to present the audit on the advance payments planned by the Government; 3. to present promptly to the House Finance Committee the measures that still need to be taken to finance the $1.15 billion tax shift that is not funded; 4. to reconsider its desire to achieve short-term fiscal balance at the risk of halting economic growth and rather to forecast a pace of consolidation which is compatible with job creation and the improvement of the well-being of the population (as the previous government had done). In the event that it maintains its austerity policy, to present at least quickly in detail the "remediation measures to be defined" for 1.005 billion and measures to comply with the "structural effort" of 641 million shown in the tax shift table; 5. in this context, not to take any new measures which penalise consumption or purchasing power or measures which affect the quality of public services; 6. making more use of capital income to make our tax system fairer; 7. to provide parliamentarians with a comprehensive and up-to-date comprehensive budget table so that future debates can take place in full transparency." A second motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms Karin Temmerman and Mr Ahmed Laaouej and reads as follows: "The Chamber, Mr Ahmed Laaouej, Mr Benoît Dispa, Mr Marco Van Hees, Mr Georges Gilkinet and Mrs Karin Temmerman and the reply of the Minister for the Budget, responsible for the National Lottery, asks the government 1. regularly monitor the budgetary situation and the announced numerous payback effects and submit the results of that monitoring to Parliament every three months; 2. to re-evaluate a number of questionable budgetary revenues and to take account of the reduction in certain tax revenues in order to obtain a clear budgetary framework and to explain the audit planned by the Court of Auditors on advance payments; 3. propose without delay the measures still to be taken to finance the outstanding amount of EUR 1.15 billion of the tax shift in the Court of Auditors; 4. reconsider its intention to balance the budget in the short term, which could jeopardise economic growth, and instead maintain a pace at which it can create jobs and improve the well-being of the population (as the previous government has done); if it were to stick to its austerity policy, at least the'remediation measures' to be determined for an amount of EUR 1,005 billion and to explain without delay the measures to achieve the'structural effort' of EUR 641 million set out in the tax shift table; 5. not to take any new measures in this context which would further affect consumption and purchasing power or affect the quality of public services; 6. to tax more capital income in order to achieve a fairer tax system; 7. to provide Members with a complete updated budget table so that future debates can be conducted in full transparency." A third motion for recommendation was tabled by Ms. Karin Temmerman and Mr. Ahmed Laaouej and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the questionings of Messrs. Ahmed Laaouej, Benoît Dispa, Marco Van Hees et Georges Gilkinet et de Mme Karin Temmerman and the response of the Minister of Budget, responsible for the National Lottery, - requests the Minister of Budget to submit to Parliament an updated table containing details of the fiscal impact of the fiscal shift; - requests that the draft budget for the ways and means, the general budget for expenditure and the general outline of these projects be transmitted to the House of Representatives as soon as possible, since the law on the organization of the budget and the accounts of the Federal State provides for the compulsory deposit of these documents by 15 October at the latest." A third motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms Karin Temmerman and Mr Ahmed Laaouej: "The Chamber, Mr Ahmed Laaouej, Mr Benoît Dispa, Mr Marco Van Hees, Mr Georges Gilkinet and Mrs Karin Temmerman and the reply of the Minister for the Budget, responsible for the National Lottery, - asks the Minister for the Budget to provide Parliament with an updated table with the detailed budgetary impact of the tax shift; - asks the draft budget and general expenditure budget and the general explanatory memorandum to these drafts to be submitted as soon as possible to the Chamber of Representatives, since the law on the organization of the budget and the accounting of the federal State provides that this should have been done by 15 October at the latest." A fourth motion for recommendation was tabled by Mr. Benoît Dispa and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the questionings of Messrs. Ahmed Laaouej, Benoît Dispa, Marco Van Hees et Georges Gilkinet et de Mme Karin Temmerman and the response of the Minister of Budget, responsible for the National Lottery, asks the government detail all measures taken under the tax shift to ensure compliance with the multiannual budget path." A fourth motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr Benoît Dispa and reads as follows: "The Chamber, Mr Ahmed Laaouej, Mr Benoît Dispa, Mr Marco Van Hees, Mr Georges Gilkinet and Mrs Karin Temmerman and the reply of the Minister for the Budget, responsible for the National Lottery, asks the government provide a complete and detailed overview of the measures taken under the tax shift to ensure compliance with the multiannual budgetary path." A simple motion was tabled by Mrs Carina Van Cauter, Mrs Veerle Wouters and Mr Messrs. Gautier Calomne, Roel Deseyn, Benoît Piedboeuf and Vincent Scourneau. A simple motion was tabled by Mrs Carina Van Cauter and Mr Veerle Wouters and by Mr Gautier Calomne, Mr Roel Deseyn, Mr Benoît Piedboeuf and Mr Vincent Scourneau. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic258x.u39	Mrs. Jadin is not here.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic258x.u40	Mr President, Minister, we have understood from the press and through contacts that the Ghent BBI has sent a questionnaire to taxpayers who, in accordance with the 2013 law, have indicated a legal arrangement in their tax return. We have already asked questions about this in the past. The Ghent BBI wants to check whether the underlying assets are of legal origin and not about black money. We believe that it is a positive thing for the Ghent BBI to start with that. On previous occasions, I also insisted that this should happen. In a previous discussion in March 2015, you reported that at that time, 1 262 taxpayers had reported in the 2014 declaration that they were involved in such construction. I have a number of questions about this. How many constructions were finally indicated for the 2014 attack year? In how many cases are taxable persons within the scope of the FBI Ghent? In the meantime, how many constructions were indicated for the 2015 attack year? In the discussion in committee, I insisted that you organise a control action to check the origin of the capabilities in these structures. You said at that time that the control action could be carried out in that window at the earliest from the 2016 control period. Now it turns out that Ghent's BBI started these checks sooner than you indicated at the time. Hence the question of whether this is an unlawful action by the BBI. How do you explain that? Isn't it a problem that only taxpayers in the field of Ghent's FBI are given such a questionnaire? Shouldn't that be happening all over the country? In addition, I have a second question on the instruction of the BBI of 29 January 2015, on which we disagree, although I will not go into that further now. I'd have liked to have gotten an update. I'll explain it to you orally. It concerns the number of files dealt with by the BBI and currently under examination and the number of files for which the deadline has been extended to seven years. What is the number of files in which there is an unjustified initial balance? What is the total of the amounts that were effectively corrected? What is the total amount of the established tax supplements?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic258x.u41	Since the 2014 tax year, any taxpayer is required to indicate in his return to the tax of natural persons whether he, his spouse or legal cohabitant with whom he subscribes the joint declaration or one of his minor children not emancipated, is the founder of a legal construction or the beneficiary of a foreign trust or foundation. The Income Tax Code 1992 provides for a list of legal forms for specific countries or jurisdictions. This was fixed by the Royal Decree of 19 March 2014. It appears that one of the four regional directorates of the ISI, Ghent, has taken the initiative of systematically questioning the taxpayers concerned on various elements such as the origin of the funds concerned. The Spokesman for FPS Finance stated that it was not a national action but a regional initiative. Minister, can you tell us how many taxpayers have reported such legal constructions for the 2014 and 2015 taxation years? Can you provide me with this information by ISI Regional Directorate and by type of legal construction covered by the Royal Order of March 19, 2014? Is there an assessment of the amounts involved in these legal constructions? What are the questions asked by the Ghent ISI to the taxpayers concerned? Are they asked about the origin of the funds, about the previous taxation of the income generated by these legal constructions, about their exact composition? What are the first results and lessons learned from the ISI Ghent initiative? What is the reason why other ISI regional directorates, including Namur, do not proceed in the same way? Will any instructions be given to that effect?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic258x.u42	Question No 6153 by Mrs Jadin is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic258x.u43	I can confirm that the Ghent ISI selected about 15 files for the 2014 tax year, i.e. the 2013 revenues for which a "request for information" was sent to the taxpayers, who completed the relevant item in their return. ISI Antwerp, which in its jurisdiction is also competent for the entire Dutch-speaking Region, is also involved and is currently investigating selected files. It is customary for tax services, including the ISI, to request, if necessary, details of the data reported by taxpayers. Consideration of some responses is already under way. The question of whether the analysis of this limited number of files will lead to wider action is not yet on the agenda. This will be done after a critical assessment of the findings. In order to ensure that the survey is conducted in the most qualitative and representative way possible and to be able to apply a longitudinal vision, the ISI administration subsequently decided that different inspections would lead to a number of investigations in 2015. I'll give you the number of statements on legal constructions. For fiscal year 2014, the number of returns under code 10 is seven hundred and seven completed with "yes"; the number of files is 1,334; the number of persons is 2,156. For fiscal year 2015, the number of files is 613; the number of persons is 962. Mr Vanvelthoven, with regard to your questions on the application of the instruction, the follow-up of the action was subject to spontaneous corrections in the STIR fraud work plan of the BBI, including the creation of a specific sector code. However, as far as the situation is concerned, no data can be provided as of 31 August 2015, especially as they are still subject to a often complex quantitative analysis and further data mining because of the administration. This code in itself is not a clear indicator of abstraction that can be made. As far as your other questions are concerned, no data are available at the moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic258x.u44	Thank you, Minister, for the little information you can give me at the moment. I suppose we can get a look at that data by the end of the taxable era. It is not clear to me whether what the Ghent BBI has done is happening in other jurisdictions as well. I urge that this not only happens in the jurisdiction of Ghent but also in the rest of the country.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic258x.u45	Minister, there may be a lack of understanding on my part. I understood that this was a systematic survey of those who had declared that they had such a legal construction. I note that this is a focused analysis on some files. You're talking about a critical assessment of the findings. I do not know when it will take place, but it seems to me useful, with a view to good tax collection, to have a return to this committee on the outcome of these in-depth analyses. You have given me the numbers of the number of files and persons involved. I admit that I am surprised to see that the number is decreasing by about half between 2014 and 2015.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic258x.u46	(excluding microphone)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic258x.u47	That's because it's not the whole year in 2015. I was wondering if there was any bias. I will ask you again about the outcome of this critical assessment within a maximum of six months.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic258x.u48	Mr President, I will be very brief because this was also mentioned last week or two weeks ago. My question, Minister, is how far the European Commission's investigation is going. Do you have eyes on that in the meantime? Is there an answer in there yet? When do you expect that answer?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic258x.u49	We have submitted the dossier to the Commission, which has asked us some additional questions to which we have been able to answer very recently. The Commission normally has a period of two months to give its agreement. In addition, she has the opportunity to ask further additional questions. In that case, of course, the two-month period mentioned starts to run again. It is therefore a matter of waiting to see how the answers recently communicated to the Commission will be processed and whether or not they give rise to additional questions. In principle, however, it should be two months, depending on whether or not additional questions are asked.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic258x.u50	Okay, so wait.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic258x.u51	We'll have to wait. It does mean that the revenue entered in the budget this year will have to be offset elsewhere. Especially if we have to wait at least two months, you will not be able to achieve it this year.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic258x.u52	Mr President, Minister, I would like to ask you this question in connection with recent judgments of the Court of Cassation, which caused some storms in the legal and fiscal world. When a company incurs costs, they are, in principle, deductible. Article 49 of the Income Tax Code states that this may, firstly, if the costs have been incurred during the taxable period, secondly, if the costs have been incurred in order to obtain or retain taxable income and, thirdly, if the costs relate to the company's activities. It is now a question of that third condition, which does not follow quite literally from Article 49 of the Code, but since the judgment of the Court of Cassation of 18 January 2001, there was consensus that this condition had to be fulfilled. The Constitutional Court also confirmed this caselaw. The Court of cassation has now recently returned to that caselaw in a number of judgments and gives its farewell to that so-called causality condition. If no legal action is taken, this will undoubtedly have an important budgetary impact, and accountants will be overwhelmed to collect personal expenses from managers. Because of the coincidence with the increased flat-rate professional costs, they may come out of the tax shift as a big winner. In any case, these judgments of the Court of Cassation have not made taxation fairer. My interpretation is that this is an invitation from the Court of Appeal to Parliament, in other words to us, to amend the legislation and to take a clear and clear position on it. Mr Minister, are you willing to prepare a draft to amend Article 49 of the Income Tax Code so that the causality condition is effectively registered in the law?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic258x.u53	Mr Vanvelthoven, first of all, I would like to point out that the increase in the flat-rate professional costs applies only to the remuneration of employees and therefore does not apply to the remuneration of managers. I think this is very important in the light of your question. Secondly, with regard to the judgment of the Court of Cassation on Article 49 of the Income Tax Code 1992, my administration and my cabinet are now examining the possible impact of this ruling and how it can be implemented. However, I can already tell you that if a legislative amendment were required, Article 49 of the WIB 92 would not be adapted so much as specific articles within company law.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic258x.u54	Minister, do you have any idea when your administration will have investigated this? I would like to wait for that, but otherwise Parliament may have to take its own initiative.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic258x.u55	Maybe next year, the answer I get from the tax booze next to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic258x.u56	That is good, then we will wait for it and come back to it in January.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic258x.u57	Mr Minister, on Saturday 12 September, the 11 Member States of Europe participating in the enhanced cooperation procedure in the field of the financial transaction tax (FTT) should announce in Luxembourg an agreement on the key elements of the future FTT, in particular the proposed minimum rates and the financial instruments covered (shares, bonds, derivatives, etc.).). Nevertheless, negotiations continued beyond 12 September, as important issues remained open on several points. Several internal sources indicate, in particular, that the Belgian government is currently putting pressure on its European partners participating in the initiative to exclude life insurance and pension funds from the scope of the future TTF. Minister, do you confirm this information? What is the status of the negotiations? What would be the tax base and rate applied to this FTT? What position do you hold, on behalf of Belgium, on whether or not life insurance and pension funds are included in the TTF base? What justifies this position? Is it the government as a whole? What is the position of the other 10 Member States involved in this negotiation? What are the next steps in negotiating for the establishment of this TTF?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic258x.u58	Mr President, Mr Gilkinet has been so full that I simply agree with his questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic258x.u59	The question has been put in French, but does Mr Gilkinet have a problem with it if I answer in Dutch? [[no]] As far as I have participated in the discussions over the past few years, Belgium has cooperated constructively in the elaboration of this financial transaction tax. We are in favour of a measure that discourages speculation, and by that I mean the current government, so much is now clear. What is also very important is that this measure should preferably be supported by as many Member States as possible. It can be concluded from the discussion with the other Member States that, no matter how much effort is being made and in whatever direction proposals are being made, no consensus can be reached at the moment. I have always adopted a nuanced attitude in this regard. I have never done more or less than I have kept to what the government agreement prescribes in this regard. I quote: Belgium continues to contribute constructively to the gradual introduction of a financial transaction tax under the regime of enhanced cooperation. The government will argue that this tax should focus on shares and derivatives of a speculative nature, not on real economic activity, nor on transactions by pension funds and insurance undertakings, in terms of their cover assets or on government securities. In this context, the opportunity to maintain the stock exchange fee is examined. The texts currently before us, which are therefore circulating in the discussion between the 11 Member States that are still at the table, do not guarantee the safeguarding of the real economy, far from it. Both large and small companies are constantly fighting, through certain transactions, risks arising as a result of changes in commodity prices, changes in exchange rates and, of course, possible changes in interest charges. The various proposals before us may make it more difficult to cover them and may therefore have a negative impact on the real economy of enterprises and the employment associated with them. The proposals that are now circulating also involve risks to the Belgian financial sector. The relocation of financial institutions as a result of a financial transaction tax as it has now been drawn up would not be unthinkable, especially since some of the immediate neighbours, such as the Netherlands, the United Kingdom and Luxembourg, are not participating. So here too, I strictly follow the coalition agreement. Moreover, the current proposals on the financial transaction tax are in fact incompatible with the Capital Markets Union project, which aims to complete the internal financial market in capital movements. This has also been discussed more and more in the recent meetings. A financial transaction tax that would only be applied by 11 countries within a Capital Markets Union of 28 countries amounts to an anachronistic start of that Capital Markets Union. Finally, I would like to point out that Belgium already has a Tobin tax, namely the tax on stock exchange transactions which has been regularly increased in recent years.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic258x.u60	Minister, I am not very happy with your answer because there is an extraordinary contrast between the beginning of your response where you say we are promoters of the financial transaction tax. You then set out a series of principles and the application of these principles leads to the fact that today it is difficult to imagine that this objective is being achieved quickly. You have such a broad definition of what can have an impact on the real economy that no - or almost no - financial tool or financial transaction would be taxed. I find that, in relation to the damage to our economy caused by speculation and in relation to the budgetary needs of States, it is collectively irresponsible not to move more proactively and to give in to the diktats and threats of relocation of certain financial operators. This discussion on the tax on financial transactions can be compared to what is happening in the climate. Everyone will tell you that there is a need to fight speculation and that those who make a lot of money in the financial markets need to contribute more. As has been said today, climate change must be addressed, but no one wants to act and take the first step towards an ambitious international agreement. My interpretation of your answer is that you do not want and that you do nothing to achieve it. I find this to be damaging and contradictory to what is contained in the government statement. You are sabotaging the tax on financial transactions, it is my reading of your answer and I regret it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic258x.u61	Mr Minister, I regret to say that what I said in my question is correct. You are right to say that you are carrying out what is in the coalition agreement. Under this government, Belgium evolved from a pioneer of the Tobin tax to a gravedigger of it. If I understand you correctly, the latest changes you are advocating are that the calculations made will still have to be adjusted. Let me clarify this. The financial crisis has led to an increase of around 20% in debt in European countries. With the text on the table before you asked, together with others, to restrict it, so to speak, in order to protect the real economy, pension funds and insurance, it would have taken forty years for the financial sector with the speculative activities that they developed and are still developing to repay its debt. If you get your way with others and we get a totally stripped Tobin tax, it may take 50 or 60 years. I regret this on behalf of my group, but I am not surprised that this government considers that the invoice of the damage caused during the financial crisis should not be placed on those responsible for that crisis, the banks. Outside of this, there are many people who do not understand this attitude of the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic258x.u62	Perhaps some explanation of what Mr Gilkinet describes as sabotage. I think I have already covered it in a previous exchange of views, but I would like to repeat it. Let us be honest: when we talk about speculative vehicles, it is primarily about taxing derivatives. There is a very simple, clear blocking, even if you call it sabotage, because of the position of two large countries within Europe. Germany makes it very clear that there should be no impact on derivatives related to government debt. I am not saying that, but that is the German position. The French position is that derivatives linked to shares cannot in any way be taken into account by a financial transaction tax. I believe that we can agree that if we think about a financial transaction tax aimed at reducing speculation and generating returns, and these two large countries, in a strange kind of balance between themselves, exclude everything that has to do with derivatives on government debt and shares, then we will come to a lean animal anyway. However, this is not the Belgian Government's position. I believe that I have said this before, but for the sake of completeness I would like to add it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic258x.u63	Everyone agrees but everyone puts conditions that, if added together, make the system impossible. Is it a form of irresponsibility or collective hypocrisy? This is very serious with regard to the responsibility of speculators for our economy. Before you were Minister of Finance, we looked very carefully at the Dexia and Fortis files. It is because these banks have been allowed to speculate with confidence that the state would intervene in the event of a problem, because they are too big to fail, that we now have budgetary difficulties. In any case, it is one of the essential components of our budgetary difficulties. The need for recapitalisation and the destruction of value that is the consequence of their speculative games weigh very heavily on our economy. That the leaders of the states cancel any intention to prevent this speculation and, on the other hand, to make a greater contribution to those who make a lot of money in the financial markets, is a source of rage to me because it is obviously the opposite that would be necessary to try to slow down speculative games and to return to a balanced budget by not touching on essential missions which are those of redistribution or public investment, particularly in services of collective mobility.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic258x.u64	Minister, that was a useful answer. You are hiding behind the great backs of France and Germany. It was already clear in the coalition agreement that this government did not really want to know much about a Tobin tax. I am not surprised that the initiatives of France and Germany are coming. We know how France and Germany were the second main culprits for the further weakening of the banking regime agreed in Europe. When one reads the reports of Lamfalussy and others, at the beginning of the crisis, and what was proposed in them, and then when one looks at what finally came out of them, in the form of European decision-making and directives, one finds a great difference between them. This is all due to the lobbying power of the financial groups in France and Germany, which have ensured that these two governments have begun to act in defence of the interests of those banks. I can only regret that. It was a very useful answer, Minister. You've been a journalist and a politician for barely one year, but this was a very useful answer. You can hide behind the big backs of France and Germany.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic258x.u65	You will be complimented, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic258x.u66	Minister, I have a rather technical question or a question for clarification. Article 541 of the WIB 92 provides for the possibility to establish a special liquidation reserve for the purposes of the accounting profits of the financial years related to the 2013 and 2014 tax years. However, it is not entirely clear what is meant by Paragraph 1, 5° of the Act by reserves still recorded at the beginning of the financial year in which the respective special attacks were paid. At a literal reading, this would mean that the result transferred could not be used for the creation of a liquidation reserve. However, the profit distributed for the financial year may not be eligible. In view of the short term within which the special assessment of the special liquidation reserve must be paid, in particular 30 November 2015, and in view of the final nature of the payment of the special assessment, can you clarify Article 541, § 1, 5°, of the WIB 92? From what reserves can the special liquidation reserve be constituted and to what amounts?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic258x.u67	Mr President, Mrs Wouters, for the determination of the amounts of the special winding-up reserve to be built, reference can be made to the Explanatory Memorandum to the Programme Act of 10 August 2015, which sets out the objective for the introduction of the special winding-up reserve. The measure, contained in Article 541 of the WIB 92, is intended to allow, under certain conditions, for profits outside the scheme of Article 537 of the WIB 92 and outside the scheme of Article 184c of the WIB 92, to establish a liquidation reserve for these profits at a rate of 10% and to pay them in the event of liquidation without any additional charge. Taking into account the above, it is clear that the profit for the financial year related to the 2013 tax assessment year, which is paid out at the time of the result processing of that year, can never be taken into account. These profits have never been entered in the reserves, so that they are obviously not preserved in them. Moreover, they have already been paid, so that they can no longer be the subject of a distribution in the event of liquidation. The same applies mutatis mutandis to the profits for the financial year related to the tax year 2014. With regard to the profits transferred to a subsequent financial year, account 14........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Finally, for the accounting purposes of the special liquidation reserve, reference may be made to the advice 2015/6 of the Accounting Standards Commission.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic258x.u68	Thank you, Minister, for your very technical explanation of a very technical question. The question dates back to the beginning of November 2014 and I am glad that it has now been answered clearly.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic258x.u69	Mr President, Minister, my question may be brief. We have been waiting a long time for the appointment of the new top man in taxation and ICT top man. When do you think that post will be filled in? Is there any explanation why this appointment is taking so long?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic258x.u70	Various mandates remain to be filled at the top of certain federal administrations or in management bodies of public enterprises. In its 11 September edition, the Tijd reported on the ongoing negotiations between the parties members of the federal coalition for a comprehensive agreement on the allocation of different mandates, particularly within the FPS Finances. These include the Director General of Taxation and the Director General of Information and Communication Technologies. These two functions have not been filled for many months. This situation is likely to block certain projects, in particular for the operation of information technology in the tax administration. Minister, do you confirm that a comprehensive agreement covering several positions in the management bodies of federal governments and public enterprises is or has been negotiated by coalition partners? Can you tell me what criteria the mandates within the FPS Finance will be or have been assigned? Depending on the skills or political colour of the candidates? Are there any plans to validate candidates' skills through assessment and the intervention of SELOR or have they taken place as part of the discussions on these appointments? When has a solution been reached or will it occur? Pending such appointments, what steps are being taken to ensure the proper functioning of the services concerned and the optimal follow-up of ongoing projects?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic258x.u71	By Royal Order of 16 September 2015, Mr.Jacquij was appointed for a period of six years, beginning on 1 October 2015, as the Head of Tax Administration at the FPS Finances, with salary class 6. By royal decree of 16 September 2015, Mr Vandersmissen is appointed for a period of six years, from 1 October 2015, as the head of the management function "Director of the management service of information and communication technologies" at the FPS Finances, with salary class 6. The long term needed to complete these appointments is the result of two elements, on the one hand, the strict selection procedure to be followed and, on the other hand, the different language balances that should always be respected in these appointments. It is important to stress that the selection procedure, as provided for in the Royal Decree of October 2001, also guarantees the necessary objectivity in the appointment of the government managers and ensures that the federal government can also obtain the most suitable candidate for each of these functions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic258x.u72	Thank you, Minister, for the fact that the appointments have taken place in the meantime. I assume that those involved will also be able to take up the position effectively in the near future and that the functioning of the administration can be improved effectively in this way.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic258x.u73	Minister, I take note of the appointment of the two senior officials at the head of the FPS Finances. I also take note of your explanations concerning the time limits that have been necessary and the objectivity of the procedure. That is what you said and I hope that has been the case! Above all, I hope that positive work can be done by both parties.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic258x.u74	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Smaers' 6235 was postponed. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Dierick's 6254 will be converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Smaers' 6261 was postponed. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Dispa's 6268 was converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament 6269. Mr Dispa's 6270, 6272 and 6271 were postponed. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Dedecker's 6286 question was converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic258x.u75	Mr Minister, in implementation of the coalition agreement, the programme law of 19 December 2014 considerably eased the application of the separate attack, which was tightened by the previous government and regarded by the business community as a plague tax. With the circular 24/2015 of 11 June 2015, the administration gives an initial comment on the adjustments of the individual attack or the attack secret commissions. In practice, the new circular raises questions about compliance with the law. The new provisions of Article 219, paragraph 7, WIB 92 expressly state that the individual assessment cannot be applied if the acquirer has been clearly identified, no later than two years and six months after 1 January of the relevant year of assessment. However, on the basis of a passage in the Explanatory Memorandum, the administration considers that this condition can only be met if it is held by the transferee in writing, stating his identity, his national number and the amount obtained. By requiring a written agreement, the administration therefore adds a condition to the law. Mr Minister, I have the following questions. Is a written agreement by the transferee necessary to exclude the application of the special assessment? Can the special assessment be applied if a fee was entered on the wrong code of a sheet 281 drawn up in good time? Can the special assessment be applied if an amount of remuneration of the employer's own is indicated on a sheet 281 drawn up in good time, whereas the administration considers that it is taxable remuneration?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic258x.u76	Mrs Wouters, as regards your first question, I can tell you that the letter to which you refer does indeed state that the condition of unambiguous identification of the transferee is deemed to be fulfilled when there is a written agreement from the transferee. However, such an agreement is not imposed by law as such, but is only one of the possible examples of so-called unambiguous identification. There shall be unambiguous identification where there is no doubt as to the identity of the transferee and where it is established that the amount of expenditure included as professional costs corresponds to the amount paid to the transferee. An uncontested sheet 281, for example, also permits such unambiguous identification. I will therefore instruct my administration to amend the letter to that effect so that it is consistent with the clear legal provisions in this area. This brings me to your second and third questions. An error concerning the code on the sheet 281 does not in principle give rise to the application of the separate assessment. The aim is to ensure that income is taxed on the basis of the transferee. The two-year and six-month period provided for is in line with the same legislator's intention to give priority to the correction in respect of the recipient of that income. Where a sheet 281 lists all the sums obtained by the transferee during the taxable period and represents professional costs, but if that sheet has not been correctly completed, the application of the separate assessment should not be considered.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic258x.u77	Thank you, Minister, for your clear answer. There is a lot of resentment about this letter about the attack on secret commissions, because a number of transpositions that one wants to do are ultimately not in accordance with the law. I am pleased that you have been able to provide a very clear answer to this particular question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic258x.u78	Minister, this is a rather pragmatic problem. The Programme Act of 10 August 2015 provides for the introduction of a new exemption from the transfer of the pre-tax for small start-ups. Depending on the company's compliance with certain conditions, the 10% exemption may amount to 20% of the company's withholding tax which was deducted from the remuneration of employees. It's a nice measure to stimulate our economy. Pursuant to Article 275/10, second paragraph, 3°, WIB 92, the exemption applies to all undertakings, both sole proprietorships and companies, which are registered for less than 48 months in the Crossroads Bank of Enterprises. Only the date of registration in the FBO will be the starting point for this period. Pragmatically, it would be much easier to start the reference period on the first day of the next month. Is such an adjustment possible?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic258x.u79	Mrs Wouters, the law states, on the one hand, that the employer may be registered in the Crossroads Bank of Enterprises for a maximum period of forty-eight months. On the other hand, the law also states that if the employer continues an activity previously carried on by a natural person, the period of forty-eight months starts at the time of the first registration in the Crossroads Bank of Enterprises by that natural or legal person. I will instruct my administration to examine whether an adjustment is appropriate from a practical point of view, so that it would be clear from when the count should begin.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic258x.u80	Minister, the newspaper L'Écho of 29 August – yes, the deadlines for parliamentary holidays are such that questions can be asked very late... – announces that Belgium is considering investing in Greek gas through its financial arm, the SFPI (Federal Investment and Participation Corporation) which would be willing to release 30 million for this purpose. Do you confirm this information? Why such a project, while the Fluxys board of directors, after serious consideration of the matter, ended up with its entry into the capital of DEFSA, the company that owns and operates the high-voltage gas network in Greece? What arguments led Fluxys not to retain this project? What are the counter-arguments put forward by the SFPI, which is also a shareholder of the Fluxys group? Finally, behind all this, what is the concrete interest of the Belgian State in investing in Greek gas? Does the SFPI not emerge from its role by replacing the actor who should have invested directly himself?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic258x.u81	Mr Nollet, investment through equity investments in companies is at the heart of the tasks that the legislator has undertaken to entrust to the SFPI by means of an organic law. It is therefore only natural for the Commission to examine the investment opportunities that exist for it. As a reminder, SFPI entered the capital of Fluxys in 2012 with the aim of supporting the international development of Fluxys, capitalising on the know-how historically developed by Belgium in gas, but also in order to consolidate Fluxys in its status as European hub in terms of gas transport and transit. To date, the market circumstances had resulted in SFPI not having been able to invest in Fluxys' capital in the full amount of the means it had set aside for this purpose. Currently, therefore, there is still a tranche available to support the development of Fluxys in Europe. The Greek project led by Fluxys should enable it, on the one hand, to consolidate the development of the south-eastern European gas corridor, which will ensure the European Union's security of supply from 2020 by diversifying supply sources, by opening access to gas deposits in the Caspian region and, on the other hand, to develop its synergies with the trans-Adriatic pipeline under construction, in which Fluxys already holds a 19% stake alongside SOCAR, which holds 20%. The proposed participation would have the merit of stabilising DESFA and putting the expertise of Fluxys at the service of the development of the Balkans, and more particularly Greece as a gas hub and gateway to the new gas flows expected from Azerbaijan and the Eastern Mediterranean, including Cyprus, and even longer-term Iran and Egypt, in line with the European objectives for that region. In this context, the SOCAR initiative, a "Gaz" masterplan, which has been developed for the Balkans, in which Fluxys could participate, is to be noted. It is also worth noting that this project is part of the close relationship established in recent years between Fluxys and DESFA, but also between national regulators, a relationship embodied in the signing of a cooperation agreement in November 2014. The Caisse de dépôt et placement du Québec does not wish to invest in Greece at the moment and the shareholders of Fluxys as a whole do not see the need to increase the capital of Fluxys. The proposed joint participation formula between SFPI and Fluxys reconciles the different elements. There is therefore no substitution of the role of Fluxys pursuing its industrial objective as a gas infrastructure operator and the SFPI, its statutory mission as a financing vehicle of the Federal State in the interest of the Belgian economy.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic258x.u82	Minister, I will take the time to analyze this answer. It seems to me, to say the least, particular that Fluxys, who analysed the project, decided in the end not to consider it for itself but made all the risk borne by the SFPI. It's a little weird because at the starting point the editing was more mixed, to take your expression back. Here, Fluxys itself detachs itself and makes the SFPI play exclusively. I will take the time to analyse the situation also in view of the forced privatisations that have taken place in Greece. I would like to take this opportunity to thank my colleague Gilkinet for leaving me the floor before him. I know that this is the dimension of the Greek dossier.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic258x.u83	Question No 6379 by Mr Mathot has been postponed. Mr Wilrycx is not present and we have not received any notice from him, so his question No. 6396 is deleted. If we don't receive an apology, we'll delete the question. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Mathot's 6399, 6400, 6406 and 6407 were postponed. Question 6425 by Mrs Smaers has been postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic258x.u84	Minister, when a life insurance contract comes to an end, whether through death or at the end of the contract, it is necessary as a beneficiary to contact the insurance company so that it can pay the amount insured by the contract. However, by many phenomena, such as the evolution of family units and working life, it seems that many beneficiaries do not make themselves known and that large amounts "sorry" on the accounts of insurers. The law lays down the rules applicable to the insurance sector in this respect. Financial institutions and insurance companies must, in principle, necessarily seek out their "dorming" customers. They first send a mail to the last known address. If there is no reaction, they can search the National Register and Carrefour Bank file to obtain, for example, a new address. If a registered letter with acknowledgment of receipt does not give any result, the legal search procedure is completed for financial institutions and insurance companies. In this case, after a maximum of one year of search, the dormant assets as well as all data relating to the holder of the account entitled to benefit shall be transmitted to the Caisse des Dépôts. However, the proper application of these rules should be verified and, where appropriate, adapted in order to minimise the mass of these dormant funds. Minister, what is the body responsible for verifying insurance companies' compliance with their research obligations for dormant life insurance recipients? Are there regular reports by the Committee on the results of these checks? Are they accessible to the general public? What are the main conclusions of the most recent reports on insurance companies' compliance with their proactivity obligations? Can you provide me with recent statistics on the number of surveys that have been launched by insurance companies to find beneficiaries of dormant life insurance and on the number of such surveys that have been successful? For the last five years, how many life insurance contracts and for what total amount have they been transferred to the Caisse des Dépôts et Consignations, for lack of having found the beneficiaries?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic258x.u85	My colleague, the life insurance of the second pillar has been kept outside the scope of the Sleeping Assets Act. Insurance undertakings are therefore not obliged to transfer the capital to the Caisse des Dépôts et des Consignations if they fail to contact the beneficiary within a specified period. This does not mean, however, that pension organizations have no research obligation with respect to pension plan entitlements that have become due. Art. 26, § 4 of the PCA (Supplementary Pensions Act) provides that when retirement or other benefits become due, a pension body shall actively inform the beneficiary of the benefits that are due and of the possible payment options. Pension agencies have also been given access to data from the National Register in this context. As from 1 January 2016, there is also a back-up mechanism under which the ASBL Sigedis will have to look for each member who would not have received the full supplementary pension benefits to which he is entitled after six months from his legal pension. Sigedis should then promptly inform the member in question by mail of this situation and inform him or her of the pension organization(s) or, failing that, of the agency to which he or she may apply to obtain payment of the benefits payable. FSMA is responsible for monitoring compliance with the above-mentioned provision of social legislation. On the basis of the possibilities offered by DB2B, this social control is organised on the basis of periodic and thematic monitoring programmes. For the time being, a supervisory action on the subject of dormant pension rights is being implemented.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic258x.u86	Minister, I will certainly ask you again about this important matter. You have answered here with regard to the second pillar. I was also aiming for the third or personal pension savings. This is a topic that needs to be given particular attention, given the amounts involved and the number of workers (under the second pillar) or individuals (under the third pillar) who ultimately do not know their portfolio and the assets on these accounts that they do not have access to. As we have done for dormant assets in bank accounts, we must be careful. This is a particularly important field of investigation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic258x.u87	I propose that we ask two more questions in telegraphic style.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic258x.u88	Mr President, Minister, as of September 18th, many traders were the victims of a failure of the Bancontact electronic payment system operated by Atos Worldline. The payments were made by the customers but the amounts were not paid into the merchants' bank accounts. It was mainly independents and small traders who were affected. For some of them, this has created significant cash flow difficulties with the need to use cash credits with interest charges. Minister, I know that this is also a matter for the Minister of Economy, but in your capacity as Minister of Finance, I think you are also competent. Do you have any information on the number of traders that have been affected? For what period of time? In which region exactly? Have some regions been more affected than others? I'm aware of cases in Namur province. What are the causes of this situation? Have any officials been identified? How long has the situation been restored? Have compensatory payments been made or will they be paid by the firm responsible for this situation? What measures are being taken to prevent the recurrence of such incidents in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic258x.u89	Do you also ask your question about AB InBev? I'm trying to put the questions together.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic258x.u90	We're creative. Next question on tailor-made tax aid for AB InBev. According to information published by the Standaard on Saturday, 26 September, the federal government would consider significantly reducing the tax on dividends to be paid by foreign shareholders of AB InBev, in order to encourage the group to maintain its headquarters in Belgium. The brewing group would indeed study the possibility of moving to the United Kingdom, according to The Telegraph. This move could avoid large shareholders of SAB Miller - which AB InBev wishes to resume -, a large tax levy on the future dividends of the new group. According to the Standaard, the government wants to encourage the brewer to keep its seat in Belgium by developing a new tax regulation on dividends received by foreign shareholders. "This measure strengthens our competitive position vis-à-vis other countries," I quote. Minister, can you tell me if you confirm this information? What type and amount of tax benefit would AB InBev's shareholders benefit on the basis of the government's plan? What would ethically and economically justify such tailor-made treatment? Could other companies benefit from the same tax regulation as AB InBev? How much? What would be the tax cost in terms of lower revenue for the Belgian State of this new tax regulation? Would a notification and agreement from the European Commission be necessary, in your opinion, to implement this new tax regulation? Do you consider such a project to be compatible and consistent with the ongoing discussions between European Finance Ministers on the harmonisation of the taxable tax base and the limitation of tax competition between states?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic258x.u91	Thank you for both questions, Mr Gilkinet. Mr Minister, I will give you the floor for the answers, but I suggest that you also respond in telegram style. I fear that both questions will have to be separated for reporting purposes.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic258x.u92	Mr President, unfortunately the answer to Mr Gilkinet's first question is quite long. I can transmit it immediately in writing to Mr Gilkinet, with all the details.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic258x.u93	I agree to receive your reply in writing. Let's have the debate on the second question then.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic258x.u94	Mr Gilkinet, concerning AB Inbev, the order issued by the Court of Justice of the European Union on 12 July 2012 in the Investment Limited case obliges our country to find a solution for the unequal tax treatment between on the one hand Belgian parent companies and on the other hand European parent companies in the event that these parent companies receive dividends on account of a shareholding with an investment value of at least two and a half million euros and that this shareholding amounts to less than 10 % of the capital of the subsidiary company. In accordance with the Belgian tax legislation in force, with regard to dividends collected as a result of the participation of more than 10 %, the Government has decided to extend the favourable treatment of dividends distributed to holdings of at least two and a half million euros but less than 10 % of the capital to parent companies established in a country with which Belgium has concluded a preventive double taxation agreement. This measure strengthens Belgium's international competitive position and can therefore be used by the many companies active in Belgium, including AB InBev. As a follow-up, the Government expects this measure to serve as an argument for maintaining the head office in Belgium for companies operating in Belgium that are considering a transfer to abroad. Since the tax administration circular of 18 June 2013 on this case provides for a solution equivalent to the adoption of the proposed legal provision, its introduction will not entail any additional costs. Given that the purpose of this measure is to provide a legal basis for the consequences to be derived from the above-mentioned decree and since this measure is accessible to all undertakings active in our country, it is not necessary that this measure be notified to the European Commission in advance.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic258x.u95	Mr Minister, you have not answered my question about the compatibility of this measure with the European desire to harmonise the taxable base and, one day, I hope, the way companies are taxed in order to avoid a form of dumping and tax competition between states, which only benefits mobile capital and puts all states at a disadvantage. I regret that. For the rest, I will look more carefully at the circular of 18 June 2013 and, if necessary, return to you. If I understand correctly, we will debate this because you must sink these provisions into a law that will most certainly be submitted to our committee. This debate may take place at that time.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic258x.u96	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Dedecker's 6504 has been postponed. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Vanvelthoven's 6553 has been converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Smaers' 6556 has been postponed. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Vanvelthoven's 6606 has been converted into a written question. Mr Laaouej's and Mr Gilkinet's combined questions will be put to item 50. From that item on the agenda we will continue after the holy holiday, on Tuesday 10 November at 15:00. I would like to thank those who have held out to the end and the Minister for the answers.
