ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic261x.u1	Mr Prime Minister, I tabled this question a long time ago. There is confusion about the powers of the Minister of Health and of Agriculture over the BFSA. The Federal Food Safety Agency was established by law of 4 February 2000, following the dioxin crisis, and was actually seen as an overarching control agency that took over powers from both the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Health. At the moment, the donation to finance the BFSA is entered in the budget of Health. In the audit committee, there is only one representative of the Minister of Agriculture, while on the advisory committee there are representatives of both Health and the FPS Economy. When we talk about the custody of the BFSA, it becomes even more complicated. It is now with the Minister of Agriculture, Minister Borsu. This was confirmed in a royal decree on 5 February 2015. This Royal Decree also refers to the protocol concluded with the Minister of Health on specific powers. In short, when we look at all this, it is clear that both the Minister of Health and the Minister of Agriculture have certain powers over the BFSA. That is why I would like to ask the following question. Can you give me the status of the protocol between the Minister of Agriculture and the Minister of Health? What's the content of that? What role does the Ministry of Health play in the policy and strategy of the BFSA? Thank you in advance.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic261x.u2	The conclusion of this protocol between the Minister for Social Affairs and Health and the Minister for Small and Medium-sized Enterprises, SMEs, Agriculture and Social Integration resulted from the decision of the Council of Ministers of 23 October 2014 on the issue relating to the powers of the members of the government. This Protocol was signed on 6 November 2014 and ratified by the Royal Decree to which you referred. That took effect on 11 October 2014. Article 2 states that the BFSA falls under the exclusive competence of the Minister of Agriculture, but Article 3 of the Protocol provides that the Minister of Small and Medium-sized Enterprises shall inform the Minister of Social Affairs of the policy choice and/or legislative initiatives such as those related to matters directly related to Health, within a time limit allowing for consultation between the two ministers if necessary. During the previous legislature there was a similar protocol, signed by Minister of Agriculture Laruelle and Minister of Health Onkelinx. This protocol ensures the most efficient cooperation between the Minister for Agriculture and the Minister for Health.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic261x.u3	Mr Prime Minister, I understand that you think this protocol is effective, but this sometimes causes confusion within the committees. In any case, the answer is clear.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic261x.u4	Mr Gilkinet's combined questions Nos 5632 and 5665 are converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic261x.u5	Prime Minister, I was asking your Minister of Defence, some time ago, about your government's position on the share of GDP it intended to spend on defence. In his reply, your Minister told me that the North Atlantic Council Summit Declaration, which was held in Wales on 4 and 5 September 2014, had been acted upon by all Heads of State, including ours. According to my information, however, the previous government - current affairs oblige - had indicated in the annex to these conclusions that it could not commit itself to a level of military expenditure. Prime Minister, in the NATO framework, what are clearly your government's ambitions in terms of the percentage of GDP spent on defence under this legislature? Do you confirm the information of your Minister of National Defence that Belgium would not have made such reservations? If, on the contrary, you confirm to me that these reservations have indeed been made by Belgium, could you finally communicate this information to your minister so that he stops interpreting the reality? Finally, how does your Government, now of full exercise, stand against these conclusions?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic261x.u6	Mr President, over the past 40 years, defence resources have been steadily declining both at Belgian and European level. The collapse of the Eastern bloc in 1989 has undoubtedly accelerated a process of reducing defence spending that began in 1983 in our country. All European countries have therefore reaped a great deal of what some have called the peace dividend. I keep the figures at your disposal, in which we can see that between 1965 and 2005, we went from 3% of GDP to 1.1% of GDP. Today, our country spends 1% of its GDP on defence spending. These expenditures account for both the Defence budget and the pension expenditures of former members. This method of accounting for expenditure takes into account the way in which NATO itself accounts for expenditure. In recent years, the threat to internal and external security has increased and diversified. The same applies to our allies in NATO. This led to a consensus on defence spending at the Wales Summit in September 2014. For those countries, including our own, whose share of GDP spent on defence at the time of the summit was less than 2 per cent, several points were agreed. These countries will stop any reduction in defence spending, seek to increase their defence spending in real terms as their GDP grows, and seek to move closer in the next ten years to the 2% recommended in order to achieve their NATO capability objectives and fill NATO's capacity gaps. Prior to this summit, on 1 September 2014, Prime Minister Di Rupo addressed the Secretary General of NATO in the words: "I inform you, as well as the Council and the Allies, that it is not possible for a government in day-to-day affairs to make this kind of commitment that binds the next governments". My predecessor added: "Of course, I will make the next government aware that such a debate is under way within NATO and that it will be necessary for Belgium to finalize its position as soon as possible, once the government is invested." With respect to this government, the process of thinking about the Defence Strategic Plan has begun for many months now. On several occasions, Kern has discussed and agreed on a number of issues, including the analysis of the threat our country is facing and will face. We are continuing the discussions. We are convinced that the reflection cannot be exclusively budgetary. We must agree on a level of ambition and capacity-building resulting from this. I am aware that, in the very short term, it is important to stop all reductions in the Defence budget in order to enable our country to meet its international commitments. It is a matter of international credibility and reliability to our partners. I can tell you that the government is working so that, as soon as possible, in the coming weeks or months, we can finalize this Defence Strategic Plan, including its budget component.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic261x.u7	Prime Minister, thank you for your intellectual honesty. This information was well present at the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, which I attended earlier this month. It was pointed out that reaching 2% was a wish, a wish, but that it was in no way an obligation of result for NATO member countries.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic261x.u8	Mr President, Prime Minister, after the foiled attack in Thalys Amsterdam-Paris, there was naturally unanimous agreement on the need to strengthen and further improve the fight against terrorism in order to guarantee the right to security for all. If unanimity prevails as to the objective to be achieved, it is flouting over the means that could be privileged by your Government to achieve it. The right to security is a fundamental right, which coexists with other equally fundamental rights and which must also be protected. It is a delicate exercise to strengthen the fight against terrorism and to protect fundamental freedoms in parallel, as well as to strengthen security without falling into a security approach that weakens a range of individual freedoms and rights. When you announce that in order to better combat terrorism, you want to see Schengen again, you directly question the freedom of movement of people within the Schengen area and weaken the European feeling. Making effective this fundamental freedom already enshrined in the Treaty of Rome took more than thirty years, and Belgium was a real pioneer in this desire to abolish controls at internal borders. We need to avoid going back. You choose the Schengen strategy "emissary shield" and revive the myth of the border and, by this way, of the fortress Europe! In the current security situation and in the face of increasing threats, strong responses must be given in the short and long term. However, my group has always been convinced that the fundamental principles underlying the Schengen area must be maintained and strengthened, as all attacks on them would constitute a dangerous, irreversible and, above all, anachronistic political choice. The European Commission has not failed to intervene by recalling that as a fundamental right, the rules of free movement, guaranteed by the Schengen Convention abolishing borders between 26 European States, are non-negotiable and that sufficient tools are available within Schengen to ensure security. Prime Minister, I would therefore like to ask you the following questions. You have indicated that the Schengen agreements may need to be amended, but without specifying how. What do you clearly mean by such an amendment? What is your government's overall position on the Schengen area and the resulting fundamental freedoms? Are you of the opinion that the current provisions which allow for derogations, under certain conditions, from the abolition of internal border controls are insufficient?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic261x.u9	Mr Blanchart, thank you for your questions, since they will allow me to repeat what I have been saying for many months. As you pointed out, security is an extremely important issue. We share that conviction. It is true that we must always find this balance between the right to security and respect for fundamental freedoms, including those guaranteed by the Schengen agreements. To put it clearly, I am fully in favour of maintaining this fundamental principle of free movement, which is added value in the Schengen area. There is no ambiguity in this regard, even if one can pretend to misunderstand me. However, this principle is based on two ideas: on the one hand, free movement within the Schengen area and, on the other, strict, firm and well-organised control of the external borders. Is this second requirement met for the time being? I do not think so, and I am not alone, since all the Heads of State and Government say so: we have a major security problem at the external borders of the European Union. This is the meaning of the commitment which has been made, with regard to the reception of refugees, to set up hot spots, registration centres in Italy and Greece. Does it work? No, not yet. Strong political will has been expressed in this direction, but this is not yet achieved. My position is therefore clear; I have not changed my mind. In this context, we need to improve harmonisation in the implementation of the authorised control arrangements within the Schengen area. It is in this sense that my office has held meetings with the European Commission, which have been an opportunity for us to confirm that there are different national interpretations and assessments: for example, what type of check (identity or baggage); whether or not all passengers on a train or plane are identified? We therefore need harmonization and uniformity. It was the meaning of my message, which was heard. At my request in particular, meetings between the Ministers of the Interior and Transport have begun to take place on this subject. I will take another step by telling you, and I hope that I can also be joined, that we want to convince the European Parliament as soon as possible to take action by approving the PNR, which is the control of passenger data. What is currently on the table is a considerably reduced version of our proposals in terms of the right to security. We will continue, on behalf of the government, to try to convince European partners to move forward on this. There is a very large consensus on the subject in the European Council, but this is not yet the case in the European Parliament. According to political families, there are different approaches. In the meantime, in full compliance with the Schengen agreements, we have taken steps with the Minister of Safety and the Minister of Transport to strengthen a number of identity and baggage checks in transport and sometimes even at borders in certain situations. We fully assume this principle. If we want to guarantee the free movement we want, we must raise the level of security and therefore take steps in the European concert and the Schengen concert to try to harmonise practices.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic261x.u10	Prime Minister, I tabled my question on 28 August and since then you have made progress in a number of areas. I agree with you when you say that we need to make particular progress on this last point, because unfortunately we are forced to see that security at Europe's external borders is not complete. It is therefore necessary to move forward in this area in order to ensure better security for citizens within borders.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic261x.u11	I suspect that Mrs Lalieux, as chairman of the Infrastructure Committee, is still working on her presidency. I'll see to what extent she'll be able to come by later for her interplay.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic261x.u12	Prime Minister, it was with some astonishment that I became aware of the decisions of the Council of Ministers on 17 July. These decisions, according to leaks in the press, will indeed have serious consequences for the future of the SHAPE site in Casteau in my region and for the construction of the new NATO operations headquarters. This area would not be finished at the earliest until the end of 2021, when the previous government planned to open in the first half of 2019 or even at the end of 2018. Moreover, preferring to abandon the decisions taken under the previous government, the current government has decided to split the single NCIA/New HQ SHAPE project into two separate projects, raising concerns about the relocation of the NCIA from the current Casteau site. Can you tell me the exact scope of the decisions taken on the future of SHAPE in Casteau at the Council of Ministers on 17 July? What are the budgetary implications, from the timing and use of the site to the end of the project? Why did you decide to split the single project into two separate projects? Do the decisions of the Council of Ministers support the implementation of these two now separate projects at the current SHAPE site in Casteau? How did the Alliance react to the announcement of these decisions by your Government? I would also like to ask you about the reconstruction of the SHAPE International School. Would you be able, in the interests of transparency, to take stock of the state of play in this matter? How are the negotiations with the Wallonia-Brussels Federation, the federal and SHAPE authorities moving forward? As part of the progress of these negotiations, what new decisions will you take? When do you think that this dossier can finally be closed, so that the work of this school can begin?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic261x.u13	On July 17, 2015, we made a number of decisions on the subject. We decided to abandon the single project and deal with the two SHAPE and NCIA projects separately. We have also decided to terminate existing contracts that are currently suspended. Thirdly, we have decided to make a significant delay in the NCIA (NATO Communications and Information Agency) project, since the project is estimated at 53 months. We also experienced a significant delay in the SHAPE project, mainly due to the difficulty of SHAPE to express and formalize its needs. The project is estimated at 77 months. The fourth point of this deliberation is the first explanation of the significant delay that has been accumulated for the construction of the new SHAPE headquarters: the inability of SHAPE to express and formalise its needs also includes its inability at the present stage to indicate the place, on the site of Casteau, where it wishes to build its new headquarters. This difficulty makes it particularly difficult to choose a site to build the building to accommodate the NCIA's engine room as part of a unique project. Furthermore, the SHAPE authorities have denounced the choice of the previous government to move towards a single project, since this Belgian initiative has never received their approval. I would like to keep the relevant texts at your disposal. Aware of the difficulty and complexity of this issue, but also because I want to make progress on this issue and realize the commitments that were made, in a protocol signed on 11 February 2015 with my Defence colleague, I instructed Defence to provide support for the review and analysis of infrastructure construction files for the new SHAPE headquarters and the NCIA engineering room in Casteau, because I do not have the resources at the Chancery for this type of services. In its analysis, the Defence suggested that Belgium's commitments to NCIA in terms of deadlines were incompatible with the estimated length of the needs process within SHAPE, which meant that the NCIA and SHAPE projects were no longer in phase over time. On the basis of this finding, Defence also found that there were legal risks to the current contracts, as the subject matter of the contracts became obsolete. This prompted the decision to terminate the current contracts. The government therefore opted for the division of the two projects, after careful reflection, and entrusted the execution to the Defence, with the Prime Minister remaining the authorising officer of contracts and payments. Contrary to what you seem to think, this will result in the construction of the NCIA's engine room being possible in the shorter term. Belgium is committed to installing NCIA's facilities at the Casteau site. The current government does not intend to question this location at all. That's very clear. The average cost for NATO headquarters in Evere is €3,000 per square metre excluding VAT. The amount used to determine the initial budget of the new SHAPE headquarters is based on an average cost of EUR 3,080 per m2 excluding VAT. The study office with which we are in contact for the study of the preliminary project estimated the cost between 3,068 and 3,209 euros per m2. On the basis of these considerations, the Defence estimates the NCIA budget at EUR 82 million VATC for an area of 26 000 m2 gross. The split decision was communicated to NCIA. The Agency's general manager replied "appreciate the government's revised plan to provide an independent building that meets the requirements itself within a longer period of time." As far as the issue of school is concerned, you have already asked me about the subject and I confirmed to you at the time that the government was still willing to seek a solution to this issue and join MoU design and construction but within the strict limits of the budget of EUR 12 million set by the Council of Ministers on 19 December 2013. I am going straight to the essentials and I am keeping the written answer at your disposal. On the margins of the consultations this morning, I had the opportunity to have contacts with the Minister of Budget and the Minister President of the Wallonia-Brussels Federation to continue to seek between our two governments, the Federal Government and the Wallonia-Brussels Federation, a solution to the additional costs, since the debate is about the additional costs, following the wishes expressed by NATO. We are talking about an additional cost ranging from €7 million to €8 million compared to the estimates on the basis of which previous decisions were taken. I have seen the willingness on both sides to try to find a solution. I will keep the written reply at your disposal for all the details if you wish.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic261x.u14	Prime Minister, thank you for this rather reassuring statement. I was afraid that the split of the project would lead to a risk of relocation. But you confirm to me that there is no question of it. The different implantation you are talking about is a different implantation within the site of Casteau.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic261x.u15	Question No 6106 by Mrs Grovonius will be dealt with in the Committee on External Affairs. Mrs Poncelet's question No 6150 is transformed into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Question No 61, by Mr Gilkinet: 6371 by Mr Luykx has been postponed. The question by Mr Hedebouw No. 6432 has been revoked.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic261x.u16	Mr President, Prime Minister, I would like to ask you about the various bilateral meetings you had during your visit to the United Nations headquarters. I do not think I am wrong in saying that you have met the Turkish Prime Minister and the Rwandan President in particular. Can you, Prime Minister, share with us the various contacts you have had in this context and establish a brief debriefing of these various meetings? More specifically, I imagine that with the Turkish Prime Minister, you were able to address the refugee issue, which was subsequently discussed at the European Council. During your meeting with Mr. Kagame, did you address the current fragile stability in the Great Lakes region? Did you mention with him the crisis in Burundi and more specifically the flow of Burundians who came to Rwanda to flee instability in their country? Finally, I have no doubt that you have also spoken with him about the political situation in his country, with the approach of the elections and his possible third mandate.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic261x.u17	Mr President, Prime Minister, perhaps some more general considerations about your participation in the UN General Assembly. In this context, there have been a whole series of statements and I would like some clarification on some of them. First of all, you indicated that 50 per cent of our development assistance would now be devoted to the least developed countries. I would like to know what the Belgian Government's overall policy will be with regard to the freeze on development aid. This is already the case for Burundi, which we can welcome in view of the situation in the country. Mr. De Croo has announced, on several occasions in meetings of our Committee on External Relations, that this would soon be the case for the Democratic Republic of the Congo. As I say, we can support this decision to freeze aid to Burundi following the incidents in the last elections, but we also want to ensure that aid can actually support civil society. At this point, we do not see very well where our government is coming from. Could you tell us a little more? You also stated at this General Assembly that Belgium is committed, through its development assistance, to supporting other countries in the implementation of the new agenda of the Sustainable Development Goals, countries other than those on the list of our fourteen partner countries. Which countries were you targeting in particular? What types of interventions are you considering? In some of your communications, you advocated the mobilization of a wide range of resources. As you know, during the previous parliamentary term, the House adopted a motion for a resolution by the PS Group, co-signed by the MR, on innovative sources of development finance, including the tax on financial transactions. What do you think are these new recipes? As regards the tax on financial transactions, while the eleven European countries that are negotiating are about to reach an agreement, how do you justify Belgium being one of the countries that slows down the process? I wonder about the government's position on this issue and about the coherence of our policies.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic261x.u18	Mr President, I participated in the Summit for the Sustainable Development Goals which preceded the UN General Assembly, since, exceptionally, two summits were held one after the other. So I had the opportunity to participate in many events. I would like to keep the complete list at your disposal. For example, I chaired an interactive dialogue with the Prime Minister of Bangladesh on promoting sustainable economic growth; I presented a speech at the Summit on Gender Equality and Promoting the Role of Women; I delivered a plenary speech on the Sustainable Development Goals and also made an interactive report with the Prime Minister of Bangladesh; I spoke at the Summit organized by the US President on the Strategy against ISIS and Violent Extremism, etc. I have also had many bilateral meetings. I will keep a list of these meetings at your disposal. I met with the Turkish Prime Minister, the Rwandan President, the President of Togo, the President of Senegal, the Prime Minister of Bangladesh, the American President, the American Vice-President, the President of the Palestinian Authority, the Secretary-General of the United Nations, etc. Your questions relate to my discussions with the Turkish Prime Minister and the Rwandan President. My interview with the Turkish Prime Minister focused on the recognition by Belgium of the Armenian genocide. I have had the opportunity to explain to him the resolution which was the subject of a vote by Parliament. I have also been able to explain to my counterpart the context and the reasons for this vote. During this interview, which lasted only half an hour, issues related to security and migration flows were not addressed. These were discussed a few days later with President Erdogan. The meeting with the President of Rwanda provided an opportunity to address both the country's domestic situation, namely, issues of development, human rights, governance, and the regional situation, particularly in Burundi. Indeed, as you know, we are very concerned about this situation. We have also spoken on the subject. We have also referred to the importance of respect for the Constitutions, and hence the electoral timetables that are linked to constitutional issues. Mrs Grovonius, in various speeches, I have had the opportunity to raise the issues of development, which are important to me. You are aware that I was Minister for Development Cooperation. I have re-explained that Belgium wishes to be attentive to the issue of the least developed countries and to try to mobilize more resources for development assistance in those countries. On the other hand, I have argued a great deal in favour of mobilizing countries' own resources by fighting corruption better, promoting good governance, and ensuring that the natural resources that are very important in some countries can better serve inclusive growth, which is not necessarily the case today. All these issues have been extensively addressed. I would like to stress here that I have been very involved in the discussions. As far as innovative financing is concerned, as I have said on several occasions, I am in favour of it. I have no doubt that what I'm going to tell you will please you. Please be aware that the written version of my speech before the General Assembly included a passage on the subject. I called for continued mobilisation of innovative financing. The tax on financial transactions that you mentioned could be one of the possibilities in this area. But, unfortunately, we are reduced to speaking for 15 minutes. Everything's timed. In my oral version, I had to put in parenthesis some passages. That is why there is a small difference between the written version a little longer and the oral version of my speech. As for the confusion that you seem to be talking about between the European debate and the United Nations discussion on the subject, there is indeed a debate in Europe. Eleven Member States are part of an enhanced cooperation strategy. We agree on the principle of the tax, but there are still discussions on the modalities. It is not fair to say, as you have done now, probably out of ignorance - and I would like to inform you correctly - that Belgium would slow down or be opposed. On the other hand, it is legitimate for Belgium to be attentive to the fact that there is a complete agreement, including on the terms of the tax in question. That is what this is all about, no more or less. The Minister of Finance has already spoken on the subject, as you certainly know. Another point on the list of partner countries and the suspension of development aid. As far as the list of partner countries is concerned, do not confuse bilateral cooperation, from government to government. In development cooperation, we are already helping countries other than those listed in the list of partner countries. And do not confuse the freeze on budgets with the suspension of development aid. There is a budgetary debate for development cooperation, this is a first point. And then there's a suspension of some projects. This suspension has been decided, for the moment, for two countries: on the one hand, for Burundi – this has been done in the European concert, since the European Union also accompanies this approach – and, on the other hand, for Rwanda. This last suspension was decided a few months ago by Minister De Croo. I would add that when development aid is suspended, it is distinguished from bilateral cooperation. For example, in Burundi, police cooperation is suspended; this seems quite obvious to me, but attempts are being made to continue to support the population through indirect cooperation, either multilateral or through NGOs.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic261x.u19	Mr President, Prime Minister, I thank you for your answer, which really raises a point of thought. You mentioned some contacts you had in that context. That's very interesting. You spoke of the Vice-President of the United States, with whom you had contact in the context of the fight against the Islamic State or about the Palestinian Authority. Perhaps it would be interesting to conduct a complete debriefing of this kind of mission, as is done for European summits. It is not on the occasion of oral questions like this that we can go into depth on the various contacts. I don't know where that might be going. It's a reflection I'm launching. The Committee on External Relations seems to me the most appropriate for this. I think it would really be worth thinking about it for the future, because it could be very constructive.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic261x.u20	I am very much in favour of this kind of initiative. If there was a proposal to hold a debate in the Committee on External Relations, like what is being done in the Committee on European Affairs, I would have no problem supporting it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic261x.u21	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your answer. Between freezing and suspension, there is a vocabulary nuance that would lead to confusion. It is not me but Minister De Croo who regularly talks about the freezing of development aid in Burundi. I hear you very well about the financial transaction tax. If there was only a lack of knowledge of the substance of the debates that are taking place today at European level, I can only be pleased to hear that there is indeed an agreement on the principle of this tax and that therefore Belgium is at the forefront of trying to move this issue forward. We will see in the coming weeks and months how he is moving forward. As far as the mobilization of all internal resources is concerned, I fully agree with you. It is essential to advocate for countries to mobilize all domestic resources, to fight corruption, to use their natural resources for inclusive growth. This could have been discussed in particular in the context of my question on the minerals of conflict. But this mobilization of internal resources also depends on the policies we are pursuing here in Belgium. When we sign a whole series of trade agreements with certain countries, I think we are totally opposed to what we want in terms of policy coherence. In some of these agreements, there are truly scandalous tax procedures that prevent these countries from mobilizing their domestic resources. In this respect, the Belgian State should also assume more of its responsibilities.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic261x.u22	Mr President, Prime Minister, I had already presented this interplay before the regional elections in Catalonia because I had already suspected that the result could be very good for the separatists. The early state elections took place on 27 September. Since a referendum on the subject of an independent Catalonia had previously been banned, it was clear that those elections would be entirely dependent on Catalonia's independence. The separatists have been drawn to the electorate by joint lists drawn by the non-party political independence movement of Catalonia. We have made a clear commitment in advance to declare Catalan independence if the electorate would give a majority in Parliament for this. That's what happened. The number of seats required by the Catalan Parliament is now in the hands of those separatists. On 27 September, the Catalan independence movement won a resounding victory despite the media that opened all the registers to reflect a real apocalypse on Catalans if the yes camp made it. This election result was also achieved despite the unfreshing practices from Madrid, which, as a matter of urgency, introduced additional repressive powers before the Constitutional Court in order to be able to fine and dismiss ministers, all anticipating the elimination of Mr Mas, if necessary. You will not be surprised that I am very interested in the government's position in this affair. You may know that the right to self-determination of peoples is very close to my heart. I have noticed that some members of your coalition partner N-VA are very keen on the Catalan independence movement. They go to Catalonia with a lot of poeha, bring Catalans here and the like. What's the government's attitude? Does the Belgian Government recognise the right of peoples to self-determination? What position will the Belgian Government take if the Catalan independence movement reaches its ultimate goal? A month after the victory, that movement has already tabled a resolution to initiate the procedure for the creation of its own state. Very specific: what will be the attitude of the Belgian Government when this is discussed? Will it recognise Catalan independence? Finally, what attitude will the Belgian Government adopt at European Union level? Will you immediately advocate the recognition of Catalonia as an independent Member State? Or will you join Angela Merkel and David Cameron who have already raised an admonitioning finger to Catalonia? I am very curious to hear your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic261x.u23	Mr President, Mrs Pas, first the facts and then the position of Belgium. There's a form of suspense, a thriller. First of all, the facts. On 27 September last, 5.5 million Catalans were allowed to go to the ballot box to elect the members of the regional Catalan Parliament. The Catalan government considered this election to be a popular consultation, since a step-by-step approach to independence was the common programme of the pro-independence parties. These parties came up with a unitary list of independence under the name Junts pel Sí. However, the central government and the other Catalan parties considered that these were normal Catalan parliamentary elections. That is why they refused to form a no camp. The Spanish Constitutional Court had already issued a judgment in February 2014 declaring a law to organise this type of consultation as well as a decree for the organisation of a referendum on independence illegal. Those are the facts. Secondly, Belgium's position. At this stage it is an internal Spanish issue. Belgium has no say on this. This issue has not been addressed in the federal government either. Should there ever be a debate on this, I will, of course, inform Parliament immediately. I must also add that there has been no debate on this at European level, at the European Council.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic261x.u24	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply, which I had expected. You've outlined the facts. In fact, there was a record turnout at the elections, which you did not mention in the facts. In view of the situation in our own country, I am not surprised that you are moving the hot potato a little further until when it will really be on the agenda. Hopefully that won't take too long because sooner or later you'll have to confess to color. Then I shall be the first to ask for this in Parliament. Your caution only confirms what I read this weekend in the interview in Het Laatste Nieuws. You were asked a question there about your statement that you would never be in a government with the N-VA. Your answer was that before the elections it would never have been thought that the N-VA would swallow all its Community requirements, but that it did. I can only say that this is the case and that it is very scrupulously applying this Community omerta in its own country. The only scandals of nationalism that I, unfortunately, President, can still discover are those which are found far away from Basques, Scots and Catalans. However, I am doing my best to keep Community fire burning in my own country as well. Mr President, I will table a motion for a recommendation to that effect.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic261x.u25	At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Barbara Pas and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mrs Barbara Pas and the Prime Minister's reply, - having regard to the (state) elections held in Catalonia on 27 September 2015 which were fully marked by the Declaration of Independence of Catalonia; - having regard to the fact that the independence movement took part in the Catalan Parliament and tabled a resolution to initiate a procedure for the establishment of its own State; - whereas the Belgian Government will then have to take a position on this matter by recognising or not recognising this independence; - having regard to the right of self-determination of peoples; asks the government - recognize immediately Catalonia's independence if the Catalan Parliament declared Catalonia's independence; - to advocate at European level that the other Member States of the European Union also recognise Catalonia's independence; - at European level, call for an independent Catalonia to become an immediate member of the European Union automatically and without obstacles." A motion for recommendation was tabled by Ms. Barbara Pas and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Mrs Barbara Pas and the Prime Minister's response, - taking into account the regional elections held on 27 September 2015 by the Generality of Catalonia entirely under the sign of the declaration of independence of Catalonia; - Whereas the independence movement obtained a majority in the Catalan Parliament and introduced a resolution to initiate a procedure for the establishment of an independent State; - Whereas the Belgian Government will have to take an attitude in this matter by recognising this independence or not; - taking into account the right of peoples to self-determination; asks the government - to recognize without delay the independence of Catalonia in the event that the Catalan Parliament decrees the independence of Catalonia; - to plead in European bodies for the recognition of Catalonia's independence by the other Member States of the European Union; - to plead in European bodies so that the independent State of Catalonia can automatically and without restriction become/remain a member of the European Union." A simple motion was tabled by Mr Philippe Pivin. A simple motion was tabled by Mr. Philippe Pivin. Motions for resolutions will be voted on at a later date b. The meeting's over. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic261x.u26	Mr Prime Minister, contrary to what my previous question suggested, the Community in this country is sometimes not kept by Flemish Interest. I would just like to mention the situation in Linkebeek. The time frame of an oral question is too short to outline the history and facts of the entire carousel. Acting Mayor Thiéry has meanwhile been replaced by a new mayor by the Flemish Minister of Interior for his repeated violations. This week, all members of Mr Thiéry's list have resigned from the city council. The impasse is complete there. The new elections, whether illegal or not, will not provide a solution there either. Everything is stuck there, as Flemish Interest has always predicted. However, when I read about this, Prime Minister, I see remarkable statements that indicate that your party continues to support Mr Thiéry unconditionally. I'll give you four. Firstly, I quote Mr Thiéry himself, in De Morgen: 'I have the full support of Charles Michel. We've been on the phone. I also had a phone call with Didier Reynders. That's all I'm allowed to say. Secondly, after submitting my question, I read in an article in La Libre that Di Rupo called all the French-speaking parties in the Chamber to a meeting on 14 October. They also took part on behalf of the MR. Thirdly, following the collective resignation of the city council this week, I have found that your party chairman, Mr Chastel, has reiterated that Mr Thiéry is the only legitimate mayor of Linkebeek. Fourthly, and finally, I would like to mention the most recent example from Le Soir today. Uw minister van Begroting zegt daarin letterlijk: I therefore fully support him, as the MR has always done. In fact, these are problematic statements, Prime Minister. Because the MR and you are behind this mayor, you reject the competence of the Flemish Government and also the statements of the Council of State. After all, the Council of State has made it clear in black and white that Mr Thiéry cannot and cannot be appointed until 2018. That is why I have the following questions about my greatest concern. Firstly, how can the federal loyalty, which you are so committed to, be reconciled with the unconditional support given to Thiéry, who is acting against the Flemish Government and the Council of State? I have a very specific question. Is Mr Thiéry's claim that he had a conversation with you about the situation in Linkebeek? Has he taken the initiative himself? Can we know what was told during that conversation? Secondly, is it true what Thiéry claims and what it looks like, in view of the statements made by your colleagues from the MR in the Minster Council, that you have indeed given your full support to Mr Thiéry in his dispute with the Flemish government? If so, from what authority did you pledge your support? What am I supposed to mean by that total support? What does it mean in concrete terms?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic261x.u27	Mr President, Mrs Pas, first of all, the sixth state reform introduces a new procedure for the appointment of mayors of the six facilities municipalities in the Rand. It also confirms the competence of the Flemish Government in this matter. Secondly, the sixth state reform also gives a role to the General Assembly of the Council of State to decide, where appropriate, on the appointment of a mayor in such cases. In my capacity as Prime Minister, I have repeatedly pointed out that this problem falls entirely within the competence of the Flemish Government. At no point in the procedure has the federal government examined the file in question. She shouldn't either. This is not a matter of federal competence. That's right. Period. The answer to whether I have been in contact with Mr Thiéry is, of course, yes. I have regular contact with Damien Thiéry, who is a member of the majority and MP. I have regular contact with Mr DamienThiéry, since he is also a member of my party. So I'm very clear. The federal government doesn't have any jurisdiction in the case. This is a discussion between a municipality and the Flemish government.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic261x.u28	Mr President, Prime Minister, you haven't told me anything I haven't heard. Of course, it is a dispute between Mr Thiéry and the Flemish Government. That is precisely why I asked my question whether it was true that you gave him your full support in his conflict with the Flemish Government. After all, that would be completely outside the federal loyalty, just because the file is not your jurisdiction. Mr Thiéry's taking it out in the newspapers. Wilmès states in the newspapers that your party fully supports Mr Thiéry. If that is not a violation of that federal loyalty and of the Community, which you are imposing on your government partner, then I do not remember. Mr President, allow me to say wrongly to the Minister of the Interior, who said here a few weeks ago that the situation in Linkebeek was completely under control. You should speak to the fellow Members who voted away our proposal for a decree to stop the carousel this week in committee. I wonder, above all, why do you still adhere to that federal loyalty and to that Community duty of silence? It is clear that the Prime Minister's unconditional support is being given, and he denies that even today, it is not only on one side. This only serves to make the Flemings fit while the French speakers continue and will continue in Linkebeek until 2018.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic261x.u29	Prime Minister, I will allow you to blow a little after this more than embarrassing question. A few weeks ago, you met Turkish Head of State Recep Tayyip Erdogan on the occasion of his visit to Belgium, with the Minister for Foreign Affairs, in Val Duchess, during a bilateral meeting. Given the political, security and human rights and press situation in that country, as well as the regional situation, the subjects should not have missed during this exchange, as the Turkish parliamentary elections approached. Could you tell me the various topics you discussed with the Turkish President during this meeting? On each of these, what was the Belgian position that you defended? More broadly, how do you view the bilateral relations between our two countries and the European future of Turkey? In this context, what do you think about the violation of the different rights of the European Convention by this country? What role do you think this country should play in the regional situation we are experiencing, from a diplomatic, humanitarian, security and military point of view? What follow-up do you intend to give to the various incidents that have sparked this visit, both from the point of view of relations between the Belgian and Turkish security services and of relations with the press, since it has been learned that the European Federation of Journalists intends to alert the Council of Europe about intimidation of RTBF journalists?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic261x.u30	Colleagues, my first point is the last one you mentioned. I had the opportunity to forcefully recall that freedom of the press is absolute and I called to order the spokesman who had lacked delicacy on the subject. I have spoken about this. In addition, I would like to add that I have been working with my team to ensure that all accredited journalists - of course - have access to the statement that has been made for the press. Steps had been taken to avoid the presence of some journalists. Secondly, this state visit was long planned, within the framework of the Europalia project. This decision has therefore been taken for more than two years. The visit was conducted with the same standards as other State visits. For all State visits, we apply the same type of standards in terms of protocol or initiatives taken on the margins or as part of State visits. Thirdly, relations with Turkey. I guess that's the most important question. We have had the opportunity to deal very thoroughly with many aspects of the relations between Belgium and Turkey. I have had the opportunity to recall that, while there has been a process of accession to the European Union for several years now, a negotiation process in which the European Union has engaged, this does not mean that there is an obligation to achieve results. I think, as I have said on several occasions, that Turkey is very far from meeting the criteria for accession to the European Union. However, President Erdogan has expressed the wish to resume discussions, including on subjects relating to fundamental freedoms, respect for human rights. For my part, I think that what is important is to have a strategic partnership with Turkey, because it is a neighbouring country, it will always be so. There are 220 000 Belgian citizens of Turkish origin in Belgium. Turkey is an important economic and commercial partner for Belgium. We must consider this negotiation without any naivety, being perfectly lucid on Turkey's internal agenda. In the near future, elections are scheduled in Turkey. There's a clean agenda. In the same way, the European Union, Belgium must defend its own agenda and its own values in such negotiations. It's as simple as that. That's what we're doing. In terms of bilateral relations, we have expressed the wish to relaunch the so-called trilateral dynamic, because it concerns foreign affairs, justice and the interior. He's an important partner for our safety. The foreign fighters are an example of this. If we want to be able to manage security at home with partners, we need to have channels of dialogue with countries like Turkey. Finally, on relations with the European Union, I would like to add to the statement by telling you that a few days after this state visit to Brussels, the European Commission has embarked on an action programme which is in fact a process to try to reactivate a high-level political dialogue between the European Union and Turkey. We had a very long, very thorough debate at the European Council on the relationship between the European Union and Turkey. I am convinced that my position, which I have just presented to you, is widely shared at European Council level, that is, that we can look at the points Turkey wishes to consider. We must be partners with regard to refugees. We must see how to mobilise means to support the humanitarian work carried out by Turkey in the context of the reception of refugees, but in connection with security at the borders between Turkey and the European Union. I am convinced that, in the coming weeks and months, this debate will remain a hot topic, given the geopolitical situation. Finally, we have discussed at length relations with Russia in the context of the conflict in Syria. The meeting took place at a time when Russian aircraft overflew Turkish territory without permission. We had the opportunity to develop an in-depth geopolitical exchange on Syria and Libya. With regard to the first, I reaffirmed our conviction that we must simultaneously fight the Islamic State and force a political solution that must lead to the departure of Bashar al-Assad.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic261x.u31	Prime Minister, thank you. This long-awaited visit was indeed timely, as it took place before next weekend's elections. I agree with you that relations with Turkey are important but also sensitive, because it is a country on its way to democracy. Moreover, several political forces express values of freedom, secularism and progress. They should be encouraged to do so. Of course, it is the president and the power established by his party that is often intriguing. I want proof of what happened this morning, since the premises of two Turkish editorial offices were invested by the police authorities. We know that Turkey is one of the countries in the world where press rights are most violated. This is more than delicate for a country neighbouring the European Union. In any case, you are right on this point: breaking the dialogue is never a solution in this case.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic261x.u32	Debates of the European Parliament 6891 of Mr Yüksel will be answered by the Minister of Defence in charge of Staff cases. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Lanjri's 7102 was postponed. Questions Nos 7122, 7123 and 7124 by Mr Brecht Vermeulen are converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic261x.u33	Mr. Chair, Minister, the April 22, 2014 Ministerial Circular provides us with some details regarding the organization of the availability of fire service volunteers. While the recall of volunteer firefighters was historically done by triggering one or more sirens located on public buildings, time has changed and technological progress has replaced sirens with modern means of communication such as pagers, gsm or the Internet. In addition to this technological development, there is a social evolution which renders the availability of the volunteer firefighter for both urgent and non-emergency missions at all times obsolete, subject to sanctions. This rule, which kept the volunteer on duty for 168 hours in a row, went, in particular, de facto, against the spirit of flexibility and freedom linked to the voluntary nature of the firefighters' engagement. This rule can no longer be applied in a society that is increasingly complex both in the components of the lives of volunteers themselves and "in the context of managing their availability in order to ensure optimal protection of people and goods while ensuring respect for the voluntary nature of the civic commitment of these firefighters". This availability management is based on a reliable balance between the requirement for an extremely short response time and the possibility of temporarily declaring themselves unavailable. The information circular of 3 June 2013 on adequate means recommends the establishment of a computer system illustrating the real-time availability of staff by post. The aim is for the volunteer to be able to better reconcile his obligations, and the barracks to have the staff necessary to carry out the missions while respecting the voluntary nature of the commitment of the voluntary staff. All right. But shouldn't we go further? If I am the first defender of respect for the voluntary nature of the volunteer's commitment and therefore of his or her freedom to have his or her time for himself, the value of commitment must not be completely diluted in the value of freedom. Minister, my questions are as follows. Since the stated objective is to set up such a system of notification of the availability/unavailability of volunteers on a Kingdom-wide basis, do you have a performance index of the availability of volunteers? What measurement instrument has been put in place and what are the performance statistics, in particular in terms of service rates and average response times? Do you not think that it should be possible to counteract the procedure in order to improve the response time for urgent missions in particular? What concrete measures do you intend to take in this regard?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic261x.u34	Mr Blanchart, the circular of 22 April 2014 you are quoting must be read in the light of the applicable statutory provisions, in particular Article 177 of the Royal Decree of 19 April 2014 on the administrative statutes of the operational staff of the relief zones. Article 177 provides that the area shall adopt rules of procedure setting out the minimum availability of voluntary personnel and the modalities of the recall service. With regard to rule 177, the report to the King gives a number of examples of what these rules of procedure may contain. Examples include the minimum number of hours of availability per month or per year, the period of prior notification of periods of foreseeable unavailability, the method of notification of periods of unpredictable unavailability, the reasons which may justify periods of unavailability of several days. The objective of the rules of procedure laid down by each zone is to reconcile, on the one hand, the need to have the staff necessary to carry out the legal tasks and, on the other hand, to take account of the voluntary nature of the citizen engagement of these firefighters. It is a matter of making a balance of interest. As much as it would be exaggerated to impose a constant availability for 168 hours in a row, it would be exaggerated to allow the availability system to not include any obligation. It is a question of balance as often in life. The rules of procedure shall be drawn up in each area in order to be able to meet the rate of service set by the area on the basis of its risk analysis. The actual periods of availability of each volunteer shall be determined in consultation with the zone commander and his delegate and in accordance with the internal rules of procedure of the zone. In addition, a draft royal decree amending the financial status provides for the possibility for the area to set a minimum allowance of more than one hour for the volunteer firefighter whose availability rate and favourable response rate in case of recall are higher than the rate to be fixed by the area in its internal rules. To answer your questions, the federal regulations provide all the tools necessary to the area to put in place a system of availability that is efficient and adapted to local specificities. Volunteer availability will not determine the rate of service. On the contrary, it is on the basis of the rate of service determined by the area that the arrangements for the availability of volunteers will be laid down in the rules of procedure. The performance of the availability system implemented by the area will be reviewed as part of the ongoing assessment process that must exist within each area in order to allow possible corrections.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic261x.u35	Minister, you are a philosopher. With you everything is a question of balance. That said, your answers are very precise. They will make it possible to have a better reading of the texts.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic261x.u36	Mr Minister, some emergency areas or pre-areas have so-called'special technical' teams within their staff, such as divers' teams, rescue animals, mobile chemical or radiological intervention cells, research and intervention groups in dangerous environments, etc. Some of these missions are subject to a specific royal decree, such as those of divers, but most do not have clear and precise legal requirements regarding, inter alia, the information and training of members of these teams. For those who are not subject to the legislation, basic and continuing training diverges from one area to another. The Royal Decree of 10 June 2014 on civil security missions and tasks carried out by the emergency zones and by the operational units of the civil protection - and amended the Royal Decree of 16 February 2006 on emergency plans - defines in particular as missions for the rescue zones the accidents of chemical hazardous materials, accidents of biological, radiological or nuclear dangerous materials, the rescue of animals, persons in difficulty in speleology, the person trapped in rubble, the rescue and the securing of heights. A draft royal decree is being prepared for the training of members of the public relief services. It defines the different types of training, the accreditation of training centres, the national knowledge centre, the types of patents to be obtained for the basic framework, the middle management and the senior management. Since the missions of the relief zones are clearly defined, it seems essential to me to have a more precise framework as to the practical implications and the financial resources that flow from them. Will this Royal Decree clearly define the composition of these task forces, the basic and continuing training required for the missions mentioned above, their programmes and the number of hours of training? In Annex 1 of the draft Royal Decree on training for the various patents, does the reference to "technical assistance" include all special techniques? If yes, how many hours are scheduled for each specialty? Given that these missions were included in the Royal Decree, should each relief zone have such a team or should it consider conventions with neighbouring areas or civil protection? Can this type of mission be billed, and under what conditions?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic261x.u37	Mr Blanchart, the question of specialized training is not directly addressed in the Royal Decree on training but in several ministerial decrees. The draft royal decree grants jurisdiction to the Minister of the Interior. In other words, the legal basis will be created as soon as the royal decree comes into force. In any case, I have already asked my administration to draft projects. As far as divers are concerned, this is a ministerial decree of 7 June 2010. For the cynophilic teams, this is the ministerial decree of 2 October 2009. Finally, the training of anti-gas wearers is already regulated by a ministerial decree of 22 November 2004. The reference to "technical assistance" contained in Annex 1 to the draft of the new Royal Decree on training concerns basic training which must be followed by all firefighters and not specialized training. With regard to the Royal Decree of 10 June 2014, which allocates the civil security missions, I would like to draw your attention to its Article 3, which provides that the areas carry out the missions set out in column 1 of the Annex in the light of the risks existing in the area. Article 3 also provides that where the execution of such missions requires resources not available to the zone, it shall use another area and/or an operational Civil Protection unit through Centre 112. On the basis of article 6 of the Act of 15 May 2007, the zones may conclude agreements among themselves concerning, inter alia, staff and equipment reinforcements for these specialized missions. The Convention also regulates the financial aspects of these specialized reinforcements. The draft law on various internal provisions which had recently been examined by that commission provided for the possibility, where there was no convention, of invoicing by the area which had taken place in the territorially competent area on the basis of a rate to be fixed by the King. Now that the law is passed, it must be done. With regard to invoicing to the beneficiaries of missions carried out by the area with its own means, the general principle is that technical relief work carried out following an urgent appeal and with a view to saving or protecting a person shall be free of charge. Firefighting and response to disasters or disasters are also free of charge. For missions that may be invoiced, each zone shall adopt a billing regulation in accordance with the provisions of the Royal Decree of 25 April 2007 determining the missions of the relief services which may be invoiced and those which are free of charge. To sum up, you have to read two royal decrees together to know the answer to your questions. With regard to the proposed mission, a billing could follow in some cases, but it is a decision of the area concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic261x.u38	Thank you, Minister, you have answered all my questions and even my sub-questions. I have nothing to add.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic261x.u39	Minister, on Friday, May 22, the Nage area firefighters carried out a funeral Mass in Meuse, a strong symbol of their protest against a ministerial decision. This action relayed by the media concerned the abolition of a premium awarded by their employer to practise their specialty. This premium was used in particular to pay for the training hours associated with this specific activity. Diving missions are supervised by a Royal Decree of 23 December 2003 on the protection of workers from the risks associated with work in hyperbaric environments. It states that the employer shall ensure that workers who will be employed in hyperbaric work receive specific training in which they will be able to carry out this work with a minimum of risk and that the response teams shall consist of at least one diver, a rescue diver and a diver who also performs the task of surface assistant. A ministerial order of 7 June 2010, on the other hand, governs the certification and training of divers for members of the public rescue services. There is no doubt that the role of fire diver includes a part of the risk as to the nature of the interventions that can be carried out, such as the retrieval of drowned or sunken vehicles. The evidence of this is, in recent years, several deaths to be deplored among firefighters who practice this specialty. As part of the civil security reform, a Royal Decree is being prepared on basic training and on-going training of personnel. Minister, does this order include specific measures for basic training, but also the number of hours and nature of continuing training for divers? Regardless of the training, the nature and quality of the equipment is an essential element of the safety factor during interventions and exercises. In this context, what are the specific requirements for equipment? Unlike some special techniques, it is impossible for firefighters to train in barracks unless swimming pools are built there. Training is done on-site, most often outside of duty hours. What about the payment of these hours, is there a federal responsibility in this context?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic261x.u40	Mr Blanchart, the safety of divers during rescue missions is obviously of paramount importance. The Royal Decree of 23 December 2003 also included in the Code of Welfare at Work a chapter entitled "Work in hyperbaric environments". The purpose of this chapter is to protect professional divers from the risks associated with the exercise of their profession. Article 6 of the Royal Decree stipulates that the employer must provide the worker with adequate work equipment. The equipment must therefore be provided by the area and all costs must be covered by it. It's the law on well-being at work. The training of rescue divers is regulated by the Ministerial Order of 7 June 2010. Article 11 of this Order specifically refers, as part of the extension of the diver's certificate, to exercises organized by the rescue services. Given the specific nature of the missions of the divers firefighters, the exercises must be organised within the area. As with any continuing training activity, diving exercises are carried out with the intervention equipment, in accordance with the intervention procedures and with a competent supervisory staff who carry out, inter alia, an individual evaluation of the training provided. It would be inconceivable that continuing vocational training should be followed during periods of leave, individually, with personal equipment and without any supervision or quality control. It is for these various reasons that I have had to cancel the regulation adopted by the Namur area. Continuing vocational training activities, including those related to diving, obviously constitute working time for which the member of the professional staff receives, in addition to his monthly salary, a "operational" bonus and a diploma allowance. The voluntary member, on the other hand, receives his benefit allowance and the diploma allowance in the course of continuing training activities. When I was in Namur, on one of my field visits, people explained the situation to me. I then sent one of my technical staff to the area. He conducted an analysis of personal records to compare the previous situation, in which divers were responsible for their own training and equipment, and the current situation with the rescue areas, in which the areas are to provide training and equipment. In almost all cases, the current situation was better than before, in terms of net wages. We really did process individual by individual, with the files, and with them, to compare the two situations.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic261x.u41	Thank you. It is interesting for us to draw on the cross-cutting nature of your skills and experience in the field to respond to the concerns of our firefighters.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic261x.u42	Mr Minister, I recently learned from the press that the call centre in East Flanders is experiencing staffing problems. A lack of qualified personnel would often result in a delayed response to emergency appeals. This delay may even lead, in some cases, to deaths. For this reason, you quickly agreed with the trade unions concerned. The problem of qualified personnel in emergency call centres is not new. In the past, I have already asked you about the problem of bilingual staff at the call centre in Liège. Minister, what were the issues raised during the interview with the unions? After that consultation, what avenues can be considered to address this problem of understaffing?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic261x.u43	Again this year, 31 additional call-takers for 112 and 100 emergency call centres and CICAT, the former CICs, will be hired. Of the total number, one place is allocated to the ICCAT in East Flanders and two places are allocated to the 112-100 emergency call centre in the same province. On 1 December, these new staff members will begin their training and will therefore be operational within a few months.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic261x.u44	What has been done about the problem of bilingualism in Liège?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic261x.u45	It's a difficult question. We are currently looking to solve the problem by using a special software. We have the same problem in the Flemish Brabant and Walloon Brabant.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic261x.u46	I often come back with the same subjects, but this is a very important problem. Being able to be heard in one's language is very important. We have to find a solution. If I have been able to learn French and Dutch, others must also be able to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic261x.u47	Maybe you want to apply?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic261x.u48	If I stop politics, I'll go to the emergency call centre!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic261x.u49	Minister, prior to the 2006 Weapons Act, 889,937 firearms were registered in the central government registry. As a result of this law, 125,000 rifles and pistols were handed over and destroyed. Last June, there were only 426,939 registered weapons. So we lost track of more than 300,000 weapons. Some are in the attices or cellars of private individuals who are afraid of having to abandon them by reporting them, since if one is not a hunter or collector, it must be justified that the possession of weapons meets a real need. However, the Flemish Institute for Peace estimates that at least 100,000 weapons have taken place in a questionable or even criminal circuit. It is a security problem, we must be able to continue to trace weapons effectively. Minister, can you confirm the above figures? What is your administration's estimate of the number of these weapons that could eventually have been in the illegal circuit? What solutions can be considered to find these weapons and to try to encourage individuals who still have a weapon to report it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic261x.u50	The figure of 427,000 comes from an arms census conducted between 2006 and April 2015. I'll give you the table in my possession, which contains the figures from the Central Register of Arms last September. At that time, the number of regularized weapons was 453,691 out of a total of 647,000 registered weapons. Of these, 140,000 are still registered on the basis of the old legislation and are the subject of various regularization files within the provinces and local police. As a result, they are not recorded in the Central Register of Arms as regularized weapons. The difference between the 889,937 weapons recorded before the 2006 Act and the 647,000 currently recorded is due to the 125,000 weapons destroyed and the 140,000 weapons that have been abandoned, seized, lost or stolen since 2006. Of these, 43,691 weapons have been lost or stolen since the 2006 law. I give you the table with figures by province. As far as your second question is concerned, I cannot tell you how many of them are finally in the illegal circuit. As you said, some weapons may be in attices, cellars. Weapons used in the illegal circuit can also come from other horizons. With regard to your third question, the solutions to trace these weapons and to combat the illegal arms trade and trafficking fall within the competence of the SPF Justice. Most recently, the Minister of Justice proposed that this phenomenon be included in the comprehensive security framework note. He said that he planned a comprehensive and integrated approach. I would like to refer you to the Minister of Justice for further explanation, but I would also like to assure you that I absolutely support these steps that will be proposed in the comprehensive security framework note. Finally, the answer to your last question also falls within the competence of the Minister of Justice and requires an adaptation of the legislation. As Minister Geens recently announced, he is planning a new attempt at amnesty for small arms so that individuals who still hold a weapon can register it. But be convinced that in our fight against terrorism, Minister Geens and I are very much concerned about this phenomenon. Brussels seems to be a market for illegal weapons and we must really tackle this phenomenon.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic261x.u51	Minister, thank you for your answer and for this table. It's pretty interesting. You said it quite correctly – I support it and I am glad that we have the same vision again – although it is commendable, it is necessary to adapt the arms law on certain aspects. This amnesty can be a good thing to allow those who have an emotional link with their weapon to make it legal. I've already interviewed the Minister of Justice. I look forward to his answers and I am glad that we are going in the same direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic261x.u52	Mr President, Mr Vice-President, the police also play an important role in the fight against uninsured vehicles. Among other things, she receives input from the Belgian Joint Guarantee Fund. The fund tracks uninsured vehicles by comparing the databases of the registrations to the DIV and the insurance contracts for the same number plates. In the event of irregularities, the owner of the license plate shall be registered. If there is no response, the local police will be called in to check whether the suspicion of non-insurance is correct and if necessary make a report. The fund also obtains information from the inspection centres. Since 1 November 2013, therefore, almost two years, the technical inspection will also check whether the vehicle is validly insured. In a year's time, 87 566 vehicles found that there was unfortunately no valid insurance certificate. In these cases, too, the police are informed and, if necessary, a pv is drawn up. In addition, there are routine police checks and the determination of non-insurance by the police in the event of traffic breaches. You announced this summer that you would like to extend the scope of the tasks of roadside checks on our motorways. Runners are now mainly tracked down, but non-insured drivers should also be able to be caught in this way. I would like to give an example of the police area of Mechelen-Willebroek, where almost one hundred smart ANPR cameras have already been established. That is where one can already determine whether someone is driving around without insurance. You announced your desire to see results by the end of this year. I have three questions on this subject. Firstly, do you have figures on the number of reports of suspected non-insurance received by the local police from the Belgian Common Guarantee Fund? Secondly, do you have any figures on the number of minutes produced by the police in the event of spontaneous interventions in respect of non-insurance? Thirdly, which police zones are already using smart ANPR cameras to track uninsured vehicles? What are the results? How do you plan a generalisation of the method of achieving results by the end of this year?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic261x.u53	Mr President, Mrs Lahaye-Battheu, the investigation following a letter from the Belgian Common Guarantee Fund is regarded as an administrative task and the implementation of practical and operational implementation is actually a local matter. There is also no overall overview of the number of reports that the fund makes. This requires a search per police area. That individual questioning will take a lot of time, without really having the guarantee that the information will be delivered fully and qualitatively. That is why I would ask you to submit your first question in writing and then we will try to get the figures as well and qualitatively as possible. However, I can inform you that at its general meeting last July, the Permanent Commission of Local Police gave its support to the Action Plan on Non-Insurance of the FPS Mobility. All local chiefs received a letter from the Standing Committee on this matter. As far as your second question is concerned, I can give you the number of non-insurance infringements registered by the police. It is more than 30 000 minutes per year. I note a slightly decreasing trend with 36 368 minutes in 2010 and 31 324 minutes in 2014. The figures are in a small table: 36 318 in 2010, 36 200 in 2011, 32 956 in 2012, 33 178 in 2013 and, as I said, 31 324 in 2014. Nor can it be established whether all these cases have been seized, nor can it be established, on the basis of these figures, in which cases it later appears that insurance had been taken out. The release of a vehicle, when it is established that insurance has been taken out, is part of the record, but is not taken separately as variable in the ISLP system, nor included in the ANG. An analysis is not possible, given the limitations of the computer application. So we register that a vehicle drives around without insurance, but the further handling is not recorded in the database. As far as your third question is concerned, the morphological data of the police are currently being collected. The most recent data date from the end of 2013. From these figures, it is not possible to determine which ANPR cameras are effectively used for these searches. At federal level, we do not have an overview of the police areas using ANPR cameras or the results obtained. I can tell you that I've asked the governors to make an inventory of the ANPR cameras. I did not just ask for an inventory, because we see that more and more police zones are taking local initiatives. I welcome that to install ANPR cameras. You referred to Mechelen-Willebroek, but the absolute forerunner is Turnhout. Other police areas, for example along the border with France, have taken initiatives in this respect. I believe that we have come to a point where we need to combat the proliferation of cameras. At a higher level, we should look at what is the most intelligent implant of these cameras. I've asked the governors, and that evaluation starts with an inventory to structure the implantation better. A qualitative state of affairs I can give you. ANPR cameras can be used for both police and non-politician purposes, such as dynamic traffic control, real-time traffic information, traffic maintenance, traffic imaging, parking security, approach to extremism, insurance or technical control control and judicial analysis. The intervention policy of a police zone may require that an intervention team intervenes immediately on a fixed ANPR camera or may choose that the notification of a read is handled by an ANPR camera in a subsequent investigation by a specified police functionality. Most police zones prefer that last action. Through the service of the neighborhood, the consultation of the list of uninsured vehicles is carried out by ANPR cameras. This allows to relieve the burden on the intervention teams and to check more targeted vehicles for whether or not they are insured. In addition to these permanent lectures by fixed ANPR cameras of the police, the road manager may be asked to use the ANPR cameras on the motorways for those purposes. The police then carry out punctual actions using those ANPR cameras, where the list of uninsured vehicles can be consulted. More and more police areas are acquiring or expanding ANPR systems. In the case of a regional road, the Flemish government co-finances even at certain dangerous points. The federal police will also purchase mobile ANPR cameras for the benefit of the road police. Moreover, it is our wish to make maximum use of these systems by enabling consultation of information from police or other databases, both Belgian and neighbouring countries or the European Union, within the existing legal framework. If required, with due respect for privacy, the necessary initiatives will be taken to adapt the regulatory framework.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic261x.u54	Thank you, Minister, for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic261x.u55	Minister, your health colleague recently announced that he intends to investigate hospital emergency services in order to detect abuses not only by patients, but also by hospitals. Among these abuses are calls to ambulances to simply not have to wait in the waiting room – abuses that ambulances often find. This practice of patients is indeed very dangerous, because while paramedics intervene for a false emergency, a much more serious case may not be able to be dealt with in a timely manner. You know well that in medicine, a minute can be decisive. Minister, when two calls enter emergency centres at the same time, does the call centre officer have to take responsibility for deciding which case is most urgent? Are employees trained to make the difference between emergency calls that are less important than actual emergencies? I agree that my question is very delicate, but I am asking it anyway.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic261x.u56	Mr President, I would first like to point out to Mrs Jadin that an operator must never choose between various calls. Technology platforms distribute incoming cascade calls: if operator 1 is busy processing one, the other call is diverted to operator 2. The appellant is questioned on the basis of a medical regulation manual which aims to detect the seriousness of the situation in order to use the necessary medical means: ambulance, PIT (Paramedical Intervention Team), SMUR (Mobile Emergency and Resuscitation Service) or a combination of several means. Operators are trained in the use of these regulatory guides and will therefore not send unnecessary medical means. If a patient were to lie about his or her true state of health, it will be impossible for the operator to see it. It may happen that medical means are improperly sent. This does not happen frequently, as in the case of urgent medical aid, the principle of the most rapid adequate medical aid is applied. This means that the patient cannot choose the hospital to which he or she will be taken. In principle, this is always the nearest establishment.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic261x.u57	Minister, I thank you very much for reshaping the decor and for setting out the principles on which the appeals were based. I was based on a Flemish daily newspaper that referred to this problem. I have asked Minister De Block to share her ideas to remedy this situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic261x.u58	You're right, fake emergencies account for almost 15% of calls. With the robot system I've been talking about, we can eliminate those calls.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic261x.u59	Minister, thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic261x.u60	Mr President, Minister, I have seen that a large number of websites of the various federal public services do not offer or only partially provide information on their services in the German language. My German-speaking fellow citizens regularly complain about this, the last not later than this morning. Mr Minister, since German-speaking people have the same right to information as other linguistic communities, I would like to know whether there is a willingness within the FPS to offer their services in the German language more widely. I would also like to know which federal services already offer services in German comprehensively.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic261x.u61	Ms Jadin, the website of the Inland FPS www.ibz.be has been translated into German but this part is not always kept up to date due to the lack of translators. The future site, scheduled for early 2016, will also include a section in German that can be translated directly online by Malmedy's translation service. I have here a whole list of what is translated for each Directorate-General. I will provide it to you in writing.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic261x.u62	Minister, we have had this discussion in the past. We were talking about the translation service in Malmedy. It is also responsible for the regular translation of legislation. The problem persists in some federal public services. However, having adequate information in German can really be very important; I am thinking in particular of finance. I had addressed this question to Mr Theo Francken for his powers of administrative simplification – for once there is a question on this subject. I will read this document carefully and may return to Mr. Secretary of State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic261x.u63	Question No 6088 by Caroline Cassart-Mailleux is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic261x.u64	Minister, last June, STIB security officers stopped their jobs during a strike. Following this decision, STIB called on the police to supplement the stoppage by police officers to ensure the safety of the users and infrastructure of this transport company. It is a necessity, of course, but it raises a few questions. Under what regulation or agreement do the federal or local police services respond to such situations and requests of Belgian public transport companies? By whom is the cost of this police reinforcement borne? How many times and for what amounts have our police services been forced to replace strike security teams in Belgian public transport companies over the last two years? How many police personnel were involved?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic261x.u65	Mr Pivin, the STIB security officers carry out a security and dissuasive presence mission. They intervene in the event of incidents within the limits of their competence and call on the police if necessary. The Directorate of the Railway and Metro Police (SPC) is a federal police department specializing in rail transport safety, in the metro and the pre-metro in Brussels. As a result, railway police officers also carry out a daily security and dissuasive presence mission on the same ground as STIB security officers. Police areas also carry out a monitoring mission, but oriented towards the surface network: trams and buses. In the event of a strike by STIB security officers, there is therefore no question of replacing them with police officers, but of a daily police surveillance mission, which continues to be carried out. The only difference is in the level of intervention. In fact, the police are directly involved in each situation, whereas in normal times, for certain types of intervention that do not require the presence of the police, STIB security officers intervene alone. Police officers therefore carry out their duties within the framework of their regular regulations. In terms of cost, police work is included in routine tasks. The SSC does not provide for special reinforcements on strike day for STIB security officers. On the other hand, it will focus its workforce mainly on STIB's field of action if nothing specific is reported or planned elsewhere on that day. To answer your last question, no statistics are required on this subject, as no specific reinforcement is foreseen.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic261x.u66	Minister, I understand that this is not a replacement, but an increase in the frequency of their monitoring missions. Therefore, the cost remains at the expense of the police, and the work is done at the expense of other police duties, unless the rest of the time is considered, the police are not occupied by other activities. I understood that the philosophy was not that of replacement.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic261x.u67	Mr.President, Minister, on August 31, 2015, you announced that the network of video protection of railway infrastructure, approximately 5,000 cameras, would soon be available to the police. It is a crucial structuring in view of the usefulness of this type of device in investigating many criminal or criminal acts. If, ten years ago, a plea had to be made regarding the installation of video protection systems, today few still refuse to see the undeniable contributions of these devices. It may therefore seem surprising that these prevention and response services are not yet connected everywhere between the various emergency and public safety services. It is a fact that I have been making for several years now in the Brussels Region concerning the STIB network, since at present the police services in the Brussels Region still do not have full live access to the images of the metro network. It is, however, the same police services – you have just confirmed this – that are called upon in the event of an incident or attack. As a reminder, this concerns 1,800 cameras in STIB infrastructure, including metro stations, and 6,800 cameras in vehicles. It's not nothing! This shows, if necessary, that the organisation of the control of the operation and the control of public and para-public video protection networks, particularly within public undertakings, remain problematic in certain parts of the Belgian territory. Therefore, Minister, I would like you to provide some information about SNCB and Infrabel. Are the images of the 5,000 railway cameras available to the police to date? What procedure is in place to regulate access to these images by the police? What police services, in particular, have access to these images? How long are the records kept? Finally, how is the rail video protection network installed in rail traffic infrastructure, in addition to Belgian railway stations? Specifically, what percentage of our country's railways are covered by this public safety oversight?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic261x.u68	Mr President, Mr Pivin, the images of the 103 stations with SNCB cameras have been accessible in real time by the federal police since 11 September. Article 9 of the Camera Act of 21 March 2007 provides for real-time, free and free access for the police to images of cameras installed on the network of public transit companies. The terms and conditions of such access shall be determined by royal decree. The services are in the process of drafting this order. Therefore, the law dates from 2007; there has not yet been a royal decree. To be very honest, it was after the attack or the false attack of the TGV that it was found that this royal decree had not been drawn up. We're doing it. What police services do they have access to? The Federal Railway and Metro Police have direct access to these images in real time. The SSC is a specialized federal police service that provides this support to any other federal or local police service that wishes to do so. Police officers have real-time access to the SSC operational command centre for the time required for support. They may also ask SPC operators to track an incident or event in real time and inform them of what is visible on camera images by all available means of communication. How long are the images kept? The police do not record or download images. The controllers of the processing and registration are at the level of the SNCB. The law provides for a retention period of one month except for images intended to gather evidence of acts constituting offences or causing damage, to search for or identify the perpetrator, a disruptor, a witness or a victim. In these specific cases, the images are provided to the police, in accordance with the administrative and judicial police procedures in force. The recorded images are stored seven days by SNCB. If there is a request for a safeguard for the police or for justice, they can be kept for up to 25 months, but this only in the specific case that I have just mentioned. Police services provide advice on an ad hoc basis, but it is the responsibility of the competent SNCB department to determine the location of the cameras. Very few cameras target the tracks given the extent of the territory. This is only the case in some suicide hotspots in a preventive context. Currently, there are 2,800 cameras in 107 stations, approximately 1,000 cameras in 49 parking spaces, 268 cameras in other SNCB sites and 1,123 cameras in 132 Infrabel sites.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic261x.u69	Thank you for your very comprehensive answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic261x.u70	Mr Minister, it is not necessary to recall the tragic or threatening events that have occurred in Belgium over the last two years that are linked to terrorism. We again mentioned, a few moments ago, the one that happened two months ago. While it is obvious that the most important Belgian sites are being monitored with high attention today, I would like to ask you about many sites in our country, which could potentially be used for terrorist acts. Indeed, we have already seen in the past, in foreign countries, for example, that small secondary airfields have been frequented by attackers. In view of the new measures set out by the government at the level of transport infrastructure, I would like to ask you about air transport infrastructure as well as river and sea transport. Minister, at what level of threat are our Belgian airports currently at? How many airfields are registered as potentially threatened by terrorist actions in Belgium? Is special monitoring of secondary aerodromes in place? I am thinking in particular of Grimbergen, who is next door to Zaventem. Have any threats been registered against the infrastructure of these Belgian secondary airfields? Have any attacks ever been foiled? Are the monitoring standards currently being reviewed by the security services with a view to strengthening the physical, computer and electronic protections of the operating and control systems of these aerodromes? What would be the financial cost in this case? Furthermore, with regard to maritime and river infrastructure, how many Belgian maritime and river infrastructure have there been improvements in their safety and protection in the last year? How many of these sites are at level 3 of the OCAM alert? Have new investments already been made to strengthen these infrastructures – for example in video protection? Have the ports of Zeebruges, Antwerp, Brussels and Liège ever been the potential target of terrorist attacks according to our security and intelligence services?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic261x.u71	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Belgian aviation and river infrastructure is at level 2 with particular vigilance, given the general level of threat in Belgium. To date, no specific threats have been reported on the above-mentioned infrastructure. As for the measures adopted to strengthen the protection of these infrastructures, in the current security context, the ports of Antwerp, Ghent and Zeebruges were designated, in 2014, as critical infrastructure within the meaning of the law of 1 July 2011 on security and the protection of critical infrastructure. An assessment of the need to improve the protection of these infrastructures is under way. Apart from these three critical infrastructures, I would like to refer you to the Minister for Mobility with regard to the protection measures relating to aeronautical and river infrastructure in general and which has competence in this field. The areas of civil aircraft security and maritime security fall exclusively within the competence of the Mobility FPS. The Directorate-General for Air Transport and the Directorate-General for Maritime Transport are responsible for the implementation of a comprehensive system of continuous and gradual internal security measures aimed at preventing, mitigating and neutralizing the risk of disruption of the operation or destruction of civil or maritime aviation infrastructure in our country through the development of internal physical and organizational measures. As the competent authority for this matter, these two services have an overall overview of the security situation for Belgian aeronautical and river infrastructures. They are best placed to provide answers to questions about this issue. It is therefore Mrs Galant who seems to me to be the most able to answer these specific questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic261x.u72	Minister, thank you for the information you have provided me.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic261x.u73	Question No 6216 by Mr Flahaux is transformed into a written question. The next question on the agenda is No. 6241 by Mr Hellings. However, Mr Hellings is not present, nor has he indicated whether his question will be converted into a written question. It is not my custom, but I will show some clemency, although I do think that there should be an earlier initiative. Mr Van Hecke, I will be clement if you take the initiative. It's gonna have to happen soon.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic261x.u74	Mr President, Minister, since 2008, citizens who lose their identity cards or whose identity card they are stolen from can go to DocStop. This application then changes the status of the ID, preventing identity fraud. Application is a very important tool in the fight against identity fraud, one of your policy priorities. The number of declarations at DocStop appears to have increased in recent years, according to a written question. This does not mean that there would be more theft or loss, but that DocStop became better known. DocStop can only be reached by telephone or after reporting to the police or the municipal administration. If you are looking for DocStop on the internet, you will end up with a telephone number so you still have to call DocStop yourself to take action. It might be easier to make DocStop applicable online as well. What's your vision? Will you make that possible? Are there any bottlenecks? If not, within what timeframe can this application be put online?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic261x.u75	Mr President, Mrs Hufkens, I agree that it can certainly bring added value in the fight against identity fraud to offer this application online. If we did so, the government would even play a leading role in this. At present, such a thing is not even available at Cardstop, which provides for the blocking of credit cards and debit cards. It would also be a solution for deaf and hearing impaired people, which is also a specific problem. There are already several ways of reporting loss or theft of an identity document by telephone via DocStop or in person to the municipality or police, so that citizens can do so immediately when the facts are established. The increasing number of declarations shows that more and more citizens indicate loss or theft of an identity document. Further sensitisation remains a priority. As I said, I think this is a good idea. I have therefore instructed my services to examine the opportunity, the technical feasibility, the necessary resources and the concrete implementation of the DocStop online declaration. An analysis should also be carried out to frame the risk posed by such online application for false reporting of loss or theft and how this can be prevented. That seems to me to be a clear concern.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic261x.u76	Minister, with this answer you make it clear that you are taking the fight against identity fraud seriously and that this can be a very good means of doing so. I had not yet considered the issue of deaf and hearing impaired people, but this can certainly bring added value.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic261x.u77	Mr President, Minister, on 16 July this year the Constitutional Court delivered a judgment which destroys the administrative loop with the Council of State, in particular the judgment No. 103 of 2015. The Flemish administrative loop was initially destroyed by the Constitutional Court, but has now been adapted and adopted after largely approving advice from the Council of State. What are your plans regarding the administrative loop destroyed by the Council of State? Will you try to fix that? Can the model of the Flemish administrative loop possibly be an example, or do you think of other slopes?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic261x.u78	Mr President, Mr Van Hecke, a short question deserves a short answer. Yes, we want to restore that, but the matter is very complicated. We are still investigating this and in doing so we consult all possible bodies, including at Flemish level. It's very complicated and I can't give you the timing right now. We want to restore this, and we are looking at how this can be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic261x.u79	Thank you, Minister, for this concise but clear answer. We look forward to the initiatives that will undoubtedly be discussed in this House.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic261x.u80	Mr President, Minister, on 28 August last the Council of Ministers decided to maintain the deployment of military personnel on the ground, i.e. a maximum of 200 military personnel for sites and institutions at level 3, as well as 20 military personnel assigned to the European institutions, for an additional month, from 1 September 2015. Minister, in January 2015, the maximum mobilization was 300 military personnel. Is this decrease explained by a decrease in the threat? If so, why should such a system be maintained? As regards the 20 military personnel assigned to the protection and supervision of the European institutions, is this permanent or only during European summits? What was the total cost of this transaction since the original decision on January 17, 2015? Could you give me a detailed account of this cost for the Inland FPS, for the Defence and for the municipalities that may be involved? Last July, the extension was only for a maximum of 160 military personnel. Could you tell me more about the maximum number of military personnel deployed during each of the extensions decided on since January 2015?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic261x.u81	Mr Hellings, Defence support to the integrated police for monitoring missions is possible for sites and institutions placed at level 3 by the OCAM. It is therefore not the general level of threat to Belgium but the number and nature of sites placed at level 3 by a specific assessment that determines the deployment of military personnel on the ground. For the European institutions, the solution is temporary and we expect an agreement with them on the security of threatened sites. We are negotiating with them because, strictly speaking, they are not currently entitled to protection by military personnel since they are located at Level 2. Relations are a little sensitive, but we are negotiating to reduce this deployment of military personnel. Since 17 January, the total cost of this operation has been €7,822,239 for the Inland FPS. We will send you the answer in writing. This amount represents the invoicing of three periods by Defence. The Council of Ministers then approved the following maximum at its meetings: on 17 January, 300; in March, 210; in June, 160; in August, 220 because of the European institutions and because at that time the number of countries in the coalition increased. Level 3 sites are therefore their embassies.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic261x.u82	Minister, thank you for providing me with extremely clear figures. As regards the level of the threat, two difficulties arise. There is, on the one hand, the general threat and, on the other, the threat to specific places (embassies of coalition countries and European institutions). We see, for example, that your office is no longer under surveillance, while the French embassy is still under surveillance. Hence the need to think about another form of threat analysis. We could just list only potentially threatened places. Sometimes you rely on the general threat to justify the presence of soldiers on the streets, sometimes you invoke the threat to certain institutions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic261x.u83	No! What you're saying is not fair. At the time we decided to use the military for stable protection, we established a protocol, which was approved by the government. We are not talking about the level of general threat, but about the sites at level 3.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic261x.u84	In any case, at the outset, there were several protocols and there was talk of a general level 3 threat. I encourage you to negotiate with the European institutions as soon as possible. The aim is to fill the legal gap in this regard. Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic261x.u85	At the time - this question dates from the summer - I said that decidedly, the incidents have been increasing recently at the Tihange site. The latest one seems to have been triggered by the fact that the shaft of one of the various lubricating pumps has broken. Do you confirm this cause? Does this type of situation always imply an immediate cessation of production? Are there not internal regulatory mechanisms that are theoretically able to compensate? Why did these mechanisms not work on the night of August 18-19? What was the sequence of events that night? More broadly, how can such an incident occur when the plant was barely out of a long period of unavailability for various tests and updates? Had the problem not been identified? It would also appear that during the post-incident inspection, the teams found another anomaly on a valve in the fire system of the primary pumps. Can you tell us more and describe this other anomaly that required a complete cold shutdown of the unit? What were the risks associated with the existence and persistence of this anomaly? I would also like, in relation to this other anomaly, to explain why it was not found during the long period when the plant was under arrest for review, from June to the eve of these incidents. Finally, I would like to know whether, on the one hand, you find it normal that as of September 23rd, there is still no official information on the AFCN site in connection with this incident and, on the other hand, you share the analysis of Electrabel, who announced that the postponement of the restart to September 30th would have no impact on customers when market prices were seen to reach peaks never reached, especially on September 22nd.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic261x.u86	The cause was indeed a rupture of the shaft of one of the lubricating pumps, which led to the loss of one of the four food water pumps of the steam generators. In such a situation, the control system tries to compensate for the loss of flow. This can be done by increasing the flow of other pumps. If compensation is not sufficient, the system of protection comes into action to automatically stop the plant, as was the case on the night of 18-19 September. The lubricating shafts of the four pumps had precisely been replaced preventively during the 2015 revision. During the start-up phase, a tree broke but it was a coincidence. During the start-up phase, a signal also indicated an anomaly on a valve of the fire protection system of the primary pumps. The operator's own inspection showed that the valve was leakproof. This anomaly did not exist before shutdown and can only be observed once the system is under pressure. During shutdown, these systems are emptied and therefore not under pressure. Moreover, it is not possible to thoroughly verify all the plant's equipment during a shutdown. The verification of each equipment is carried out following a specific maintenance plan which does not necessarily depend on a stop for revision. This event was classified at level 0, i.e. off-scale INES. That's why there was no official information on the AFCN website. There is no active communication on events that are not significant from the point of view of unit safety.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic261x.u87	Minister, I now understand why this could not be verified during the period when the system was shut down, since the system must be under pressure. However, with respect to the first incident that was identified, one of the four pumps was problematic and an attempt was made to compensate. You are not telling me why this could not be compensated in this case. You explain in your answer that, in this type of situation, we are trying to compensate, but you do not explain why this could not be compensated. This may seem disturbing. On the price and customer impact side, I was not able to note the precise elements of a possible response. As for the fact that this is a coincidence, it can indeed happen that there are coincidences. However, this seems special because you say that the pumps have been replaced and that, as soon as they were started, this has been a problem. I still have one dimension. I asked your collaborator to send me the level 0 incident record. Following our last meeting, I sent an e-mail that evening, but I have not yet received an answer. Could you call him back?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic261x.u88	This will be reminded and you will also be provided with an explanation of why the other pumps could not compensate.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic261x.u89	Mr Minister, on 18 September 2015, the text of the draft royal decree on the training of members of the public emergency services at the Council of Ministers was approved. The development of this RB fits in with the broader fire department reform. The modernisation of firefighter training is aimed at keeping the combination of voluntary firefighters, a main occupation, a family and a social life outside firefighters feasible. In the process of modernisation, professional firefighters must undergo both certification training for the hot tasks, namely interventions, and three modules of cold tasks, i.e. evaluation, teaching and prevention. Volunteers follow the certification training for the hot tasks in combination with one module of the cold tasks. In addition, the physical tests are relaxed. In order to become a firefighter or woman, a federal fitness certificate had to be available. This could be achieved by, among other things, conducting physical tests. These tests are now becoming more flexible, but after one year the heavier tests still have to be carried out. In addition, a number of other issues have been adapted, such as the introduction of e-learning and the improvement of the quality of training. Minister, where does the decision to postpone the heavier tests for a year come from? If you try to attract and motivate additional volunteers, this is only short-lived because you still have to take the heavier tests after a year. How much does it cost to train a volunteer? What are the chances that a lot of money will be lost if volunteers pass the voluntary trials first, but fail the heavier tests later?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic261x.u90	Mr Top, I understand that this doubling raises some questions at first sight, but what is the reasoning behind it? Firstly, we want to maintain the entry threshold for volunteers. The explanatory statement of the Royal Decree states that we would evaluate this. There is a difference between light and heavy sports trials. With a little bit of training in the week you can easily get those tests. Those sports trials are not so heavy, not even at the end of the training. It is our intention that anyone who is unable to comply with the tests at the start of the training course should be able to prepare themselves. As one can prepare for the theoretical and practical exams, one can also prepare for the sports exams in the same philosophy. We organize light entrance tests, but someone who does not meet the minimum physical conditions at the start will not meet them at the end of the training course either. That is the philosophy: as one prepares for the theoretical exam and for the practical exam, one can also prepare for the sports exam. We will evaluate that. If we find that candidates do pass their theoretical and practical exams at the end but do not pass the sport test, we will, of course, fill that out differently. But we'll see about that. Then I come to your second question. A grant of EUR 5 223 per person is allocated for the entire firefighter training course, regardless of whether he is a volunteer or a professional. This subsidy amount covers nine modules as well as integrated practice exercises. It covers a total of 264 hours, which can be spread over the various years. In addition to these grants, the aid zone pays the registration fee per candidate. This amount varies according to the training centre where the candidate is taking lessons. That is the cost to the area, the rest is subsidised. It is precisely through the additional guidance that volunteers can be prevented from passing the heavier tests. In addition, the recruitment tests are almost identical to the recruitment tests, but the criteria for appointments are higher. If one has to be able to walk a certain number of meters, one must be able to walk a little more meters by the end of the year. This offers opportunities, as the guidance throughout the year can be focused specifically on those parts for which the candidate scored substandardly in recruitment, in other words, did not achieve the lower limit necessary to successfully pass the same test in the appointment test. In this sense, you can compare this with the theoretical and practical training of the candidate. He or she takes his exam after he or she has received the training. So I am not initially concerned about the fact that a lot of money would be lost. We'll look into that. We're gonna try this. If it turns out that we have mistakenly thought that everyone will succeed in that sport test, then of course you are right, it would be a lot of money thrown away. But personally, I think that the theoretical and practical exams will lead to any shortcomings rather than the sports exams.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic261x.u91	Minister, the fact that I am asking the question does not mean that I have serious criticism of it. Indeed, I think it is a good idea to guarantee the influx, especially for voluntary firefighters and women, so that the entry threshold is not too high at the start of the trials and training. I am also effectively satisfied that you report immediately that you are going to evaluate over time. In fact, it is sufficient that an evaluation and adaptation should be carried out again should it become apparent that too many people are losing out after final tests, i.e. the heavier physical tests.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic261x.u92	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Demon's 6360 will be converted into a written question. The combined questions Nos 6393 by Mrs Lahaye-Battheu and 6649 by Mrs Temmerman are also converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic261x.u93	Mr President, I had the same comment earlier. I was wondering whether the question about the arms trade could not be merged with it. Minister, I refer to several newspaper reports of 23 September. Judicial investigation would have shown that one of the weapons used by Mr Coulibaly in his attack on the Jewish supermarket in Paris was purchased from a Belgian via the Internet. The weapon was purchased from a Belgian who bought no less than 174 demilitarised firearms from Slovak arms sales between June 18, 2013 and May 28, 2014. He bought legally old, decommissioned weapons from the former Czechoslovak army. The Belgian then put these weapons for sale on the internet. One of these weapons turned out to be the machine gun that the police recovered after the fatal attack in the Paris Hyper Cacher. According to weapons experts, it is a cold trick for people with knowledge to re-use decommissioned weapons. Trade in demilitarised Eastern European weapons is a major problem, as it appears that they can be used fairly quickly. This was confirmed when a huge collection of weapons, jumpers and ammunition was found in Schelle by an arms fan who did not have a single licence. The man, in his own words, has already reactivated dozens of overseas neutralized weapons of war, such as an M53 and a Kalashnikov. Among the weapons were 20 forbidden weapons of war. That, of course, worries me. In the meantime, the Minister of Justice, Koen Geens, announced that a coordination team will be set up to combat illegal arms trafficking, in which justice, police, foreign affairs, economics and other services will bring together all their information on illegal arms trafficking. Belgium is known as a turntable in this illegal environment. A report by Oxfam, Amnesty International and the International Action Network on Small Arms came up a few years ago with a list of countries involved in illegal traffic through export, import, transit and diversion of these weapons. Belgium was also on this list. Belgium also appeared on the list of war weapons found in conflict zones. The report dates back to 2006, but still appears to be up-to-date. The situation in Belgium has still not been resolved over the years. It is urgent time to solve that problem. Do you have any idea how many illegal weapons might still be in circulation in Belgium? How many cases of illicit trafficking of firearms have the police identified this year? How many legal arms owners and legal weapons are there in Belgium? How many are a gun or a gun and how many are registered as long weapons? How many weapons have been seized in recent years? What actions did you take to address the problem? What actions do you intend to take? Can you give a timing for the measures you are still planning? Is the statement that you would be willing to consider re-transmitting the treatment of weapons files to the local police as was the case before the 2006 law?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic261x.u94	Mr Top, take it from me that it is impossible to attach a number to the number of illegal firearms, because then we might as well confiscate them. In 2014, police have registered 167 offences of illicit trafficking in firearms, ammunition, parts and accessories all over the country. There can be a slight decrease in the number of facts compared to 2013, when there were 195 facts. Your second question is rather a written question. The Central Arms Register is requesting another week's delay. If you can submit that question in writing, we will answer it as soon as possible. The database on seized weapons is currently being developed. However, the Central Arms Register can provide the following figures. The number of firearms seized was rounded up to 1 400 in 2012, 1 800 in 2013 and 2 500 in 2014. Moreover, the most complete information relates to the lodging of the documents of conviction with the Registrys of the correctional courts of the country where the seized firearms are to be deposited. As far as statistics are concerned, I have given you the table, but you will also find it on the Internet. You're a pissed-off Internet user. As far as your fourth question is concerned, the Central Arms Register has developed an action plan on the fight against the arms scam based on the 2012-2015, the Ministerial Action Plan of 28 February 2012 on the fight against the arms scam and the confidential COL 14/2012 of the College of Attorneys General on the judicial approach to the illegal arms traffic. Both strategic and operational objectives have been developed. Some of the objectives foreseen in the Action Plan are to update and improve strategic and operational imaging on firearms scam, improve information position in the context of the phenomenon of firearms scam, increase police expertise, strengthen international police cooperation, monitor potential sources of supply of the criminal environment, seize and forfeiture of weapons and assets, and detect new sources of supply of weapons in the criminal environment. Moreover, Belgium participates in the European approach through its participation in EMPACT Fire Arms. That was the last National Security Plan. I fully agree with you that this has not yet wiped out the phenomenon, quite the contrary. The National Security Plan and its implementation shall continue until the end of 2015. Belgium will continue to participate in the EMPACT Fire Arms in 2016. The priorities of the next National Security Plan 2016-2018 will determine how this issue should be addressed by the police. The National Security Plan that we are now preparing will be ready by the end of this year. Once again, but more intensively, the fight against the arms trade will be pursued. I must say that we also get regular questions at the international forum about Belgium as a turning point in the illegal arms trade. As far as your last question is concerned, the treatment of the arms files is indeed taking place at provincial level. The governors can use FPS Home Affairs officials and resources to do this. However, they carry out this task for the Minister of Justice responsible for this matter. The power to register weapons belongs to the Minister of Justice. He asked the Ministry of the Interior, decentralised in the provinces, to do so at the time. If there is to be a change in the police zones, it must leave the Ministry of Justice. We will then see whether that is possible or not, but I do not have any indication at the moment that this is being considered.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic261x.u95	Thank you, Minister, for the full answer, with the exception of the first question. However, I did expect that you would not give any figures. You yourself have indicated that there are still reports from abroad that Belgium is referred to as one of the turntables of the illegal arms trade. The new National Security Plan will therefore have to be drawn up again and even more intensively. I hope this will also be carried out effectively. Illegal arms trafficking and arms trade tout court must certainly be closely monitored in the current social circumstances. Thank you for the answer. We're definitely gonna follow up on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic261x.u96	Minister, a previous article shows that the telephone lines on Pukkelpop, the annual festival in August, were constantly occupied. In view of these constantly occupied telephone lines, which run via private mobile networks, I have the following questions for you, Minister. What are the consequences for security at such a large festival if the private mobile networks fail or are overloaded? Is there any possibility for such large festivals or events to call on ASTRID radio receivers used by police and firefighters? In this case, it is about the safety of a large mass of citizens and could therefore be very suitable to keep communication and therefore security on track. The ASTRID radio receivers are reliable and can be used for overloading or failure of private mobile networks, as was the case with Pukkelpop. Can this suggestion be incorporated automatically into the mandatory security plans for festivals or other major events?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic261x.u97	Mr Metsu, with regard to the security implications for a major festival when the mobile networks fail, I would like to inform you that the ASTRID communication system is reserved for emergency communication by police, fire brigade and other emergency services. It is not intended that the ASTRID radio communications network should be used by other parties or by citizens. Mobile network operators should take the necessary measures during large-scale events to provide sufficient capacity, both in the normal course of events and in the event of an incident or disaster. We really want the ASTRID network exclusively reserved for the emergency services. ASTRID is fully engaged in voice and data communication by all traditional blue-wave lighting services, which are almost always involved in festivals, in particular the police, the fire department, the Red Cross, as well as any city guards and emergency planning officers. It is therefore a matter of emergency services in the broad sense of the word. At the busiest moments, when emergency workers communicate intensely, significant peaks of radio traffic are sometimes observed on the ASTRID network, up to ten times higher than on a normal day. Thanks to its large capacity, the ASTRID network can handle this increase in the number of radio calls without any problems. Communication via ASTRID is based on a unique feature of the group communication, whereby colleagues from the same team or from different disciplines can communicate with each other according to the needs. In the case of mobile phone calls, communication is limited to two people. In order to ensure optimum communication through ASTRID, police and emergency services have made clear agreements in the form of strict communication plans for optimal radio use. The different disciplines or categories of users using the ASTRID systems are listed in the ASTRID management contract. Of course, the government can decide to open the network to new user groups. Capacity and closed user groups ensure that emergency communication via ASTRID continues to be smooth, including in crisis situations. Of course there are agreements between the organizers of events, the authorities and the emergency services. The temporary provision of a limited number of ASTRID radio receivers from a local emergency service to an event organizer may facilitate communication between them, both in normal circumstances and in the event of disasters. However, the provision of the ASTRID radioisotopes by an emergency service to third parties should always be carried out under special conditions such as the use under supervision and agreement of the emergency services for a limited duration and for a dedicated call channel set up for this purpose. There are several channels to be opened on these radio transmitters. Emergency services have their own channels on which they communicate with each other. Should it be useful to also communicate with third parties via that ASTRID network, this should be done via a separate channel. The standard ASTRID network provides sufficient capacity and operational security for large-scale events. Capacity is the amount of communication that the network can process simultaneously. In exceptional circumstances, due to the extraordinary magnitude of an event or its specific geographical location, ASTRID may decide to use its mobile antenna mast preventively to strengthen communication. We also have mobile antenna masts that can be used in certain circumstances, if the normal fixed antenna network is not sufficient. This will only happen if the technical teams of ASTRID have determined in advance that the network is not sufficiently covering. At such a moment the mobile antenna boom is deployed. This has already happened at Tomorrowland in Boom, La Nuit du Feu in Chevetogne, Parkrock Festival in Pont-à-Celles, Scottish Weekend in Alden Biesen and the Sunrise Festival in the Lilse Bergen in Gierle. Other festivals like Werchter go fine without the use of that mobile antenna boom. ASTRID is the ideal means of communication for the management of major events, such as festivals and sporting events. Even in the event of incidents such as power interruptions, communication for the emergency services via ASTRID remains assured. The ASTRID network can easily absorb power interruptions. Thanks to the emergency batteries, the cell towers continue to operate smoothly, without inconvenience to the users. I would then like to add to your request that the suggestion be incorporated automatically into the mandatory safety plans. We will discuss this with the emergency services and the authorities.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic261x.u98	Thank you, Minister, for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic261x.u99	Minister, at the end of September you and your colleagues Theo Francken and Steven Vandeput visited Algeria, Tunisia and Morocco. It was the first time in a long time that our country was together with Algeria. The relations with that country are therefore very difficult. Now Belgium always has to go through Interpol or through the French to get Algerian intelligence. You would have agreed in Algeria that our police forces would be better able to cooperate with the police forces of Algeria in the future. Such cooperation could include cases of serious crime, terrorism and drugs. Algeria has its own specific way of combating terrorism. During the civil war in the 90s, they developed some methods that turned out to be very successful there. Flyers were distributed with a fatwa. a legal advice in Islam. which clearly condemns terrorism and is signed by influential religious figures. Before the end of the year, Algerian experts will come to Brussels to see how cooperation can take place in practice. Minister, have any concrete agreements been reached with Algeria on the exchange of information? Does this also apply to the exchange of sensitive information from the intelligence services? How do you see this cooperation going? Do you also receive advice on deradicalisation? Algeria has a completely different culture than Belgium. Actions which have a great success in Algeria may not work for us at all. Have any additional agreements been made with Morocco and Tunisia?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic261x.u100	Mr Top, our country has indeed been with Algeria for the first time in a long time. Until now, it has never been possible to conclude an agreement on police cooperation with Algeria. The boat was always held off. There weren't even any direct contacts with our police forces. I am not going to win victory too soon, but this visit to Algeria was, in this light, a first step in the right direction. We have also found in them the willingness to start cooperation. I will only be satisfied if a memorandum of understanding is also signed. We decided in Algiers to start negotiations for the development of an MOU. The State Department was aware of this. We had an agreement with them. In the first instance, the MOU should focus on the structural exchange of information between police forces. You asked if the security of the state would be involved. I hope that will be possible in the future. Now we are talking about cooperation at police level. You can say that that is not much, but I think that is a step forward. If we can achieve that, then that is more than nothing. You have to be honest. We're only in the early stages. We must start by exchanging experience and information, with experts from both countries, with regard to police cooperation, terrorism and the fight against criminal organisations. Then, on the basis of the findings of our experts, we can develop a more concrete cooperation. We want to take that step by step. As far as your third question is concerned, Algeria has a lot of experience, early experience, with deradicalisation. They have also given us examples of this. I do not intend to apply everything in the same way to us, but there are always things that one can learn from. I have also seen deradicalisation projects in Morocco. There are also things that are not at all at stake here, but other elements are. So what we can get out of that can be looked at. This applies both to Morocco, Algeria and Tunisia. As far as your fourth question is concerned, on the work visit to Tunisia and Morocco, cooperation on cases of terrorism, serious crime and drugs was initially used. It was also decided for Tunisia to close an MOU. Negotiations have already begun and are in full swing. The intention is to finalize it before the end of the year. Unlike Algeria, Tunisia was also really asking for it to be completed as soon as possible. In the foreseeable future, we will also be stationing a liaison officer from the federal police in Tunisia. We have an already liaison officer in Morocco, Mr Patrick Stevens, who is doing a wonderful job. Tunisia has 5 500 foreign fighters. So I found it legitimate to put a liaison officer there, to receive and exchange information about those 5 500 foreign fighters. You will now ask why we do not do that for both countries, Tunisia and Morocco. In Tunisia, we must place someone who is also targeting Algeria. If we were to place the same liaison officer for Morocco and Algeria, the exchange of information might stop. That's why we need to go to two liaison officers. That was Tunisia. For Morocco, we have a concrete action plan 2015-2016. It was also the second visit I made to Morocco. During our work visit to Morocco, there was a renewed commitment on both sides to implement the plan of action on the ground. It also introduced the initiative to organise internships for members of the local police of Antwerp, Vilvoorde and Brussels in Morocco and vice versa of the Moroccan police and gendarmerie in Belgium. It's about internships and learning processes. So it is not what was once in the press at the time, namely that the Moroccan police would come here to provide additional help. No, it's a learning process. The seminar held at the time in Morocco will be followed up in Belgium, including a working visit and an international seminar to endorse the recommendations. In addition, the need for early ratification of the bilateral Convention in the fight against organised crime, signed in Brussels on 18 February 2015, was stressed. Both countries, both in Morocco and here in Belgium, are expected to ratify by the end of 2015.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic261x.u101	Mr President, Minister, thank you for the very full answer, particularly in the context of radicalisation. The other cases listed, such as drugs and terrorism, are equally important. However, in the current circumstances, it is good to cooperate or try to cooperate better, for example with Algeria, in the exchange of data. You mentioned not too fast victory crows. I hope that this is not the case and that such an MOU can be signed, which can be implemented gradually with the respective partners, first of all, of course with Algeria. I hope that we can continue to work with the other countries as well. I have a general concern with regard to the countries of the Middle East. There must be sufficient attention to the democratic processes that are going on in those countries. I refer to Tunisia, which is a very early democracy. I hope that our country will also pay attention to this. They cannot get lessons from us, though. That is certainly not how we can describe it. However, we can support these countries in this respect. This cooperation could help them in the democratic process. Thank you for the answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic261x.u102	Mrs Temmerman is not present because she is stuck in another committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic261x.u103	Mr Minister, although there are no precise figures available on the background of police staff, I know that there is no legal provision for data to be kept on this subject. In practice, it is clear that the diversity of society is not sufficiently reflected in the composition of the police forces. Especially in our big cities, Antwerp and Ghent, but also in other places, the composition is particularly problematic considering the great diversity in society there. The Ghent Chief of Staff complained about this on 5 October. He stated that the local zones are not involved in the selection and distribution of new agents. As a result, it is impossible to provide sufficient men in general and in more colour with the metropolitan police services. I have the following questions for you, Minister. Is it true that local areas are not involved in the selection of staff recruited by their zone? What efforts have been made in recent years to increase the diversity of the police force? Are you considering adjusting the selection procedure to better meet the needs of the local areas? How do you see a possible new selection procedure? Meanwhile, it has been announced that there will be a pilot project in Antwerp. The city of Antwerp is allowed to recruit its own agents for two years. The question is, of course, whether other major cities, such as Ghent, are allowed to do so? Are you considering any other measures to meet the staff needs of local areas, including in terms of diversity? Finally, do I have another question of which it is not obvious whether you can see it: how many percent of our agents have a foreign background? Thank you in advance.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic261x.u104	Mr Demon is not here either. I also forgot to mention that some of Mrs Temmerman's questions were not included in Mr Top's question. I now give the floor to Mr Van Hecke.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic261x.u105	Mr President, I would like to ask about the media coverage that the Antwerp police will be able to recruit the agents themselves from 2016. The introduction is clear, so I'll ask my questions immediately. Which recruitments are we talking about exactly? Is it just about cops or also about inspectors? How do you intend to ensure that the Antwerp selection criteria are the same as the federal ones? How do they relate to each other? Will the Antwerp training be equivalent to the federal? If so, how can you verify that? Will you impose certain quality requirements on the Antwerp police? How will it be financed? The press read that Antwerp will fully cover the costs of recruitment, selection and training. Is that right? Is that a savings for the federal budget? If not, how will the financing happen? Do you want to organise funding in the same way after the pilot project or do you want to intervene in the costs in the long term? On the basis of what arguments did you decide to allow the pilot project to continue only in Antwerp? There is also interest from other cities. Ghent has also shown interest in getting involved. What are the reasons for the choice for Antwerp? A number of reasons for the problems that are given, such as the lack of diversity in the police, also deserve attention at the federal level. Do you want to take measures in your own federal recruitment, selection and training? If so, which one?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic261x.u106	I would like to limit my introduction, which has already been given by several fellow Members. I would like to refer to the Royal Decree of 5 September 2001, as amended by the Royal Decree of 26 January 2007 establishing the minimum effectiveness of the operational framework defining the number of staff of the different police zones. If a zone does not reach that minimum number of staff, the zone is defined as a deficit zone. Due to the deficit nature of a zone, the MB of 2 March 2007 already allows some exclusive measures to be taken to speed up the influx of personnel. I would have liked an answer to the following questions. How many staff are there in the Antwerp police area? Does this decision form part of the exclusive measures that can be taken to provide for a faster influx of personnel laid down in the mentioned Ministerial Decision? If not, in what procedure? Is that in that pilot project? What can Antwerp decide for itself? How does the recruitment procedure proceed specifically? Does Antwerp, in the context of its own recruitment, appoint its own jury? What conditions does it have to meet? I have questions similar to those of my fellow Members, but specifically aimed at the mentioned KB. Who pays for the training? Is that the federal government or the local zone? For what reasons is it not possible to find enough candidates for Antwerp at the moment? Has there already been a thorough evaluation of selection and training in general? Are there any other deficit areas that can rely on this decision? Are there any of these areas that have asked for their own recruitment? How are these questions answered so far? Based on what criteria can one recruit oneself? Should other deficit zones and other ordinary zones be linked to the pilot project in Antwerp or should they wait for two years?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic261x.u107	Minister, as has been said, the press has echoed a pilot project to be set up in and by the Antwerp police area to encourage the recruitment of police officers from Antwerp and, in particular, young Allochtonians. That said, your answers will be of interest to all police areas in the country, especially urbanized areas. There are already provisions in the statute of the police and in particular in article 6.2.15, paragraphs 3 and 4, of the PJ Pol allowing recruitment of potential police officers in closer cooperation with interested police areas. I am referring here to the direct supplementary recruitment where the police zone pays for the costs of training, equipment and treatment of the aspirants so engaged more quickly than by the traditional procedure. This possibility has existed for many years. In addition, the Royal Decree of 14 April 2013 provided for further faster recruitment procedures, such as immediate recruitment. In this recruitment process, the applicant inspectors are already attached, prior to the basic training, to a specific police service. These measures are further elaborated by Ministerial Circular GPI 73 of 14 May 2013 on the recruitment, selection and training of the core police personnel. On the one hand, the aim is to allow recruitment more in line with the population of the area and, on the other hand, to speed up the entry into office of the candidates and enable better management of the staff; a goal that we all share. Various areas of the country have already made and are still making use of these possibilities. For example, in Brussels. This helps to encourage the recruitment of young people living in the police zone or the region, and to ensure that the sociology of the region is better reflected at the staffing level. In all these procedures, the Federal Police remains in charge of selection and on the basis of criteria common to all recruitment procedures. There is also a need to distinguish whether recruitment is in deficit or not. What exactly is the pilot project? What will be the practical contours and modalities? Is it simply a matter of making use of the arrangements already made in recent years? In this respect, can you indicate which regulatory basis of the current procedure would then be activated? Otherwise, what provision should be derogated from in the current status of the police? I intend that it is envisaged that this pilot project will be extended to the whole country within two years. What about it? Would the derogation procedure become the normal recruitment procedure in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic261x.u108	I will group the various questions into two parts: the first part about, among other things, the diversity and the second part about the specific pilot project in Antwerp. As regards the diversity within the corps, since the existence of the integrated police structured at two levels, the diversity within the police has always been considered in the various fields, ranging from the policy on the HR process to the day-to-day police operation. Specificly oriented towards recruitment and selection, the Recruitment and Selection Service, embedded in the federal police, has always made it a point to include aspects of diversity in its communication to target groups. Witness to this are the numerous campaigns that have been conducted in which diversity is seen. In any initiative taken in this area, this is a constant focus. I would like to say that this is about diversity in all its aspects, young people and the elderly, men and women, natives and immigrants and so on. The selection is standardised and based on the principle of homogeneity or uniformity of the selection process, which means that each candidate is treated equally. In addition, the selection is competence-oriented. This is an important premise in a selection process. Also in the preparation of candidates, the federal police in cooperation with non-profit organisations have a long tradition. This preparation has shown target groups of candidates the way and put them on the road to the tests for the police. Unfortunately, for budgetary reasons, this trail has been abandoned in the past. The seventh year of complete safety in technical secondary education in the field of police is another important track that has been and remains active for more than five years now. In addition to the federal level initiatives, each local police force obviously has a role to play in focusing on diversity and target groups in its local policy and in its recruitment initiatives, which it sets up in cooperation with the federal police. A community-oriented police service means that we have police services at the service of the citizens and communities in our country. There is no doubt that the police services that form this diversity, as I have said, in all its forms: gender, age, religion, are better able to ensure this community-oriented police care. The current measures, which are provided for in the policies of the corps as well as in the HR process and in the forms of cooperation with the Centre for Equality of Opportunities, are, in my view, sufficient to attract and retain very diverse, diverse but above all competent police officers. The focus on diversity should not stop at recruitment but should be continued during the basic and further career of each member of staff. In this context, the cell Diversity of the federal police has close contacts with the diversity services of the local corps including Ghent, Antwerp and Brussels. This will exchange and discuss knowledge and good practices within the diversity domain. Together with the Interfederal Equal Opportunities Centre, the federal police continue to provide their expertise and support to the forces that are asking for this through the cell and the Diversity network. We've been asked about the diversity figures of the police. No figures are available. I have already replied to this in response to a written question by Mr Van Quickenborne. There are no data available because this is contrary to the protection of privacy. That is why we cannot provide that information. I'll join the specific pilot project in Antwerp. We are starting from the coalition agreement which states that the current recruitment system will be evaluated and, where appropriate, adjusted in order to achieve flexible, quality and smooth procedures that take into account the realities of the field. The intention is to work on this in the coming months. The pilot project of the Antwerp police zone is already a start. In addition, discussions are ongoing with the recruitment and selection department of the federal police. The local police of the Antwerp police area will do a specific recruitment, especially aimed at Antwerp young people with various backgrounds. The selection and recruitment service will cooperate in this regard. I mean the Selection and Recruitment Service of the federal police. So it is not true that there is no cooperation there. We will cooperate in this. The local police have the intention to develop a specific preparatory training in preparation for the tests to bring candidates to the appropriate level, all at the expense of the local police Antwerpen. Selection will be carried out in accordance with the regulatory framework. This means that the federal procedure and the federal standards are being used and that the chairman of the selection committee is someone from the Federal Selection and Recruitment Service. The monitoring of the same quality and competence requirements is therefore guaranteed. The co-chairs can be presented by the local police Antwerpen. In terms of time and place, concrete agreements still need to be made. The training that takes place via this recruitment channel is also done at the expense of the local police of Antwerp. This concerns the so-called category E of the letter GPI 73. Appointments about the training are made between the police school Campus Vesta and the local police. The project will be evaluated after two years. The local police in the Ghent and Brussels-Capital police areas have already asked for a trip of this kind. I must also add the Vilvoorde area. I decided that the Antwerp project should first be evaluated after a period of six months and that there could then be a possible enlargement, but not at the moment. So we're starting this pilot project. I want to make a first official assessment after six months and at that time we can consider adding more police zone candidates. For example, Mr. Termont made contact with me. I will meet him in the coming weeks to examine whether Ghent can be a second candidate in this project. I had the same conversation with Mr. Bonte for Vilvoorde. If the assessment indicates necessary improvements, it is unnecessary to start immediately with several large police areas. It is more prudent to limit yourself to one area before adding more and to arrive at a functional process for the country as a whole. In Antwerp, they are police inspectors, the basic framework. The selection will be made in accordance with the regulatory framework. The competency model and key competencies are identical. This means that federal procedures and standards are being used and that the chairperson of the selection board is part of the federal police selection and recruitment department, as I have already indicated. The assessors can be offered by the local police in Antwerp. As for dates and places, concrete agreements must be concluded. The training will take place at the Police Academy, Vesta campus, which also organizes the police training in the region. These are the same schools, the same instructors, the same places, etc. only if the training was organized by the federal police. The police training itself is anchored in a royal decree on basic training. In other words, this training will be the standard basic training planned. No exceptions in this respect. The training will be organized at the expense of the local police of the Antwerp police zone. Agreements will be concluded between the police school, Vesta campus and the local police. This pilot project will not be charged to the federal budget. Mr President, I think I have answered every question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic261x.u109	Minister, I look forward to the evaluation and adjustment. When will this evaluation take place?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic261x.u110	A formal evaluation takes place after six months.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic261x.u111	I understand from your answer that we agree that diversity in all its aspects and forms is an added value for a city or municipality. You have listed a number of measures, which you believe are sufficient today. When we look at the terrain and the questions of corpses, I think we can and should step up. Quality and competence must not be overlooked. That must be absolutely the reference. You are talking about the pilot project in Antwerp. My city, Ghent, is obviously very interested in joining that story. At last Monday's city council, I learned that the mayor has asked you a question and you confirm today that there will be a meeting. The mayor has a comment about the costs: if the local areas have to pay themselves, he thanks. Of course, that's Mayor Termont's choice, but what do you think of that reaction? After all, it is not a small area. I understand that budgetary resources are limited, but would not allow the project to end for budgetary reasons. What's your reaction to that?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic261x.u112	We are at the beginning of the pilot project, which lasts two years. I want to systematically increase the number of zones. In my view, it's an offer, not an obligation. If zones find the project interesting, for example in the context of diversity in order to recruit more easily in their own communities, then that possibility will be created and we will gain expertise on how we plant it best. However, I do not intend to stop recruiting federally or to recruit only for the federal police, and not for the local areas anymore. I don't have that intention. It will therefore be an offer to start with such a recruitment story, but not an obligation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic261x.u113	Those who want to do so must, however, bear the costs themselves?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic261x.u114	Let us call a cat a cat: that is also the offer that Antwerp has made. That is why we found it interesting in those conditions to start the pilot project and learn from it. It is a little too early to give a concrete answer on how this will be put into the market later, but it will be an offer anyway, a possibility that a zone may or may not be able to respond to. So it will be between the classic, old way of recruiting or this way. If we come to different insights over the course of these two years, you may refer to this, but we are at the beginning of a learning process.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic261x.u115	Thank you, Minister, for this comprehensive answer. We all agree that we must continue to focus on diversity and that this must be a focus, including in the selection and pre-training, the preparation for examinations and access. As far as the pilot project is concerned, there is the cost aspect. If this is offered and the condition is that one has to bear the costs of training oneself, perhaps not every city can cope with that budget. What does that mean in terms of budget, for example, for Antwerp for a year of training? Is that an average amount per recruit? What amounts are we talking about? That could indeed increase. Then it is a point of discussion whether we find this interesting and an added value. We may have to think about not putting that invoice fully with the local government and keeping it reasonable in some way.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic261x.u116	Mr Van Hecke, I have just said that I am not taking any credit for that. That's part of the evaluation. As far as the specific costs of recruitment in Antwerp are concerned, I have no idea. I assume that your representatives in Antwerp are mature enough to deal with that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic261x.u117	They will certainly ask questions about it. I would just like to point out that this could be a danger if the model were to be evaluated positively. An initial evaluation after six months, possibly allowing other cities or municipalities to participate, means that you are bringing the evaluation forward from two years to six months.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic261x.u118	I told you the pilot project is in two years' time. For me, a pilot project means that at the end of the project it is decided whether to apply it nationally or not. I think it would be a good idea not to limit the pilot project to a two-year zone, but to extend it to a limited area. That is, of course, preferably with areas that want to go along with it. So it's a gradual build-up. Admit it, Antwerp is quite specific in all police zones. Then just carrying out a pilot project in Antwerp and making decisions on the basis of that one experience does not seem sensible to me. Starting in one zone and systematically expanding to other zones seems to me to be saying something.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic261x.u119	Mr. Secretary, I'm curious. You could have also given the other cities the signal that they could participate in the pilot project after a few months or an initial evaluation. This was not reported and the municipalities thought they would have to wait two years until the end of the trial period. You offer that and it would be interesting to see the initial results of the evaluation in six months' time. Hopefully we will see which cities are interested and under what conditions they can board. We'll follow up on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic261x.u120	Mr Minister, first of all, thank you for your reply. I still have a few concerns and comments about diversity. You have given a very comprehensive explanation of the attention already paid to diversity in all its facets. If I have read the press correctly, this is one of the reasons why people want to recruit locally. I therefore regret that this evaluation has not yet been carried out at the federal level. For the time being, it is only about a pilot project for Antwerp. I therefore call for a thorough study of the problem of diversity, both for those areas which are not yet able to recruit locally and for those which will not do so later. I referred to the Royal Decree of 2007. It is then about whether or not Antwerp is a deficit zone. Deficit zones are the areas that are today under the KUL standard on staff. In this case, the Royal Decree already provides for a local recruitment procedure with the condition to guarantee the financing itself. I don't know if Antwerp is a deficit zone or not. If this is not the case, I have another comment. Why is Antwerp suddenly asking to eliminate the small difference between the optimal composition of its corps in relation to the KUL standard? It strikes me that both pre-training and training will be paid for by the city of Antwerp. You have said that other areas will be able to join. I fear that many zones will switch to local recruitment to recruit local people. In addition, there will be areas that will pass through the federal recruitment channels. Will one make no distinction between those who were recruited federally and those who were recruited locally? I am afraid that this will put pressure on smaller areas or areas which cannot afford them, which is the cost of the zones.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. My colleague's question about the possible entry of other areas after an evaluation, after six months, has already been answered. However, I would like to express another concern, from my own area, but also from the knowledge of people in other areas. These are people who work as inspectors in very large cities. The rules on mobility stipulate that people who opt for a given zone after their training have to work in that zone for three years. Only then will they be able to apply for another zone. I have the next thought. In this way, after three years, Antwerp or other areas to which reference was made may already be affected by a loss of competence and staff for which they themselves have paid the training, which they will have to re-crub after three years. That's a concern. I am not in favour of keeping people in a zone for life, but I would like to make a plea to look at the funding, both for the zones and for the federal training. There must be a good interaction between all zones.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic261x.u121	Mr President, I thank the minister for his answers. I would like to make a few questions which I am not asking to answer today, but I have many others. Why Antwerp? I had teased you at the beginning of the legislature, minister, thinking that there was an Antwerp model in your boxes. It only bothers me half since Antwerp is a metropolis and it can serve as a study office for the adaptation of a metropolis police to the problems that arise. Diversity is a real problem and a real question. As you said, this is not just about diversity between allochtones and others because there are many possible diversities and there are questions to ask myself that I reserve for an interview or during the study of the file. On training, and on the cost of training, I would like to stress what I feel is a contradiction in your position. You tell us that at the federal level, diversity is seen as something interesting and to be highlighted whenever possible. In terms of intent and start of execution, this is the case. However, in the field, it is quite different. If you're looking for diversity and if the federal government is looking for it, we need to build on it. It is not the local authorities that must provide the means, the federal government must be able to bear the costs. If we have to take over one year of training, this represents, for an area that recruits about 60 to 80 police officers a year, so many fewer units in the field. Since we're facing a year-long salary formation, we'll have to see that. I would also like to know, I am not asking you to answer today, whether we should link this proposal with your projects concerning the distinction between priority tasks and tasks that can be delegated to the private sector. More specifically, is it envisaged that training will be privatized in the future? I think if that's not the case, you have to say it right away, because it's a rumor that's circulating. Finally, very seriously, I would like to know whether you could still welcome an additional application within six months and how long there is to possibly submit this application.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic261x.u122	I will immediately answer some of these questions. There is no procedure or time limit. I said in six months, there'll be an evaluation. Then we'll check with the questions we've received. I'm not gonna write to every zone. The way to the cabinet and the federal police is known. Depending on the applications received, we will see how quickly the zones can be added.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic261x.u123	Let's imagine that a police zone, even a monocommunal one, wants to engage in the process. The decision to stand for election must be made in the form of a vote in the police council. This would be the case in Liège, for example.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic261x.u124	I also want to say that I have no plan to privatize police training. This does not mean that teachers in training cannot be independent. That's already the case. But a privatisation of the institution is not planned at all.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic261x.u125	The Minister wishes to conclude here.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic261x.u126	Mr President, since I have waited all this time, would it be possible to receive the answers to my four questions Nos. 7046, 7047, 7048 and 7049, in which case I would turn these questions into written questions. [[Sentiment]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic261x.u127	Mr President, I am a layman in such meetings. In the Flemish Parliament, meetings were held until all the questions were answered. I do not know what the custom is in this House. Will we have a chance to ask our question again?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic261x.u128	Yeah, next time. What is the difference with the Flemish Parliament? The questions put as an oral question must be accepted by the chairman of the committee. A selection of questions will therefore be made which will be discussed in greater depth. It is therefore well known that these questions will be finalised. Here the number of questions is much larger, much more than can be completed in the time available. The first item on the agenda for the next sitting is simply the questions that have not been dealt with. We will meet with the committees when we will sit together next time. The following questions are converted into written questions: Questions Nos 7046, 7047, 7048 and 7049 by Mr Nollet, Question No Question No 69, by Mr Penris: Question No 65, by Mr Demon: Question No 65, by Mrs Van Hoof 6737 by Mr Van Hecke. The questions will be forwarded by the commission to the Written Questions Service, which will send you the answer by e-mail. The next meeting with oral questions is on 18 November, I think.
