ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-25-54-commissie-ic126x.u1	Madam Secretary of State, my question dates from 20 February. It concerns the white register, but is actually a bit out of date. Since you have given the permission to hospitality operators to register until 30 April, the question still applies a little. How many cash registers are registered until what date? Is it possible to split up the number of cash registers per province and in Brussels? Is there still a deficit in Wallonia and Brussels compared to Flanders? The results showed that Wallonia and Brussels had a reasonable lag in registration. What will be done if catering operators have not registered in good time by 30 April? What are the consequences for the implementation of the white cash register in the hospitality sector if a large part of the catering operators have not registered?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-25-54-commissie-ic126x.u2	Mr Janssen, we are currently in the extended registration phase for the catering companies, which should use a registered cash register system. On 13 March 2015, 17 156 hospitality establishments registered. That number is increasing quite rapidly at the moment. For the sake of clarity, this is not about the number of checkout systems already installed. The breakdown of the number of registered establishments by region is as follows: for Flanders 71 %, for Wallonia 20 % and for Brussels 9 %. The number of catering establishments is proportionately lower in some Walloon provinces than in Flemish provinces. The breakdown by region of the number of catering companies with one or more exploitations that sold in 2013 to 12 % VAT and had a VAT return is as follows: for Flanders 58 %, for Wallonia 29 % and for Brussels 13 %. About three fifths of them will effectively have to install a registered cash register system in one or more operations. Probably between 30 000 and 35 000 operations. Moreover, the introduction of the registered cash register system is still difficult to accept by the sector, so that many catering operators take a wait-and-see attitude. It is found that the average turnover of catering in Wallonia and Brussels is lower than the Flemish average. The size and nature of the cases are smaller. For example, sandwich bars and frying are much more common. The number of hospitality stores reaching the 10% limit and thus keeping them until use of a GKS may be proportionately smaller. In reply to your fourth question, I can tell you that a CRM action is being launched, whereby a very significant part of the target group that has not registered will be visited by FPS Finance employees. The aim of the action is to inform the target group about the introduction of the registered cash register system in the hospitality sector and the associated obligations. As I have already confirmed, there will be no sanctioning action at this stage. On the other hand, it should be noted that if the system is not installed on 1 January 2016, the taxable persons liable for the use of a GKS will be subject to sanctions. The non-time registration of a large part of the hospitality operators will result in a delay in the further implementation. After all, only when the catering operator was registered in the application can the cash register system be activated.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-25-54-commissie-ic126x.u3	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for the broad answer. We still have a long way to go. However, I note that great progress has been made. By the end of April 2015, you can expect new questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-25-54-commissie-ic126x.u4	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, on 3 March 2015, the entire taxi sector of the capital, joined in their movement by several European taxi organisations, protested in the streets of Brussels to signal their fears and concerns about Uber's business practices. The taxi industry considers the latter's business practices to be unfair. As you know, Madam Secretary of State, Uber is a globalized American company and not "a small innovative start-up", as her marketing tries to introduce us. It is a multinational company valued at some $41 billion that operates in nearly 250 cities around the world. While the competence of the Regions to transport people for the benefit of money remains with us, the federal government must also assume its responsibilities within its responsibilities in this area. Madam Secretary of State, on 16 December last you asked the Special Inspectorate of Taxes (SII) "to study the financial and fiscal structure of Uber in the light of its tax practices in Belgium". Can you confirm to me that you have diligently investigated Uber's tax practices with the ISI? If so, have you ever been aware of the first elements of this investigation? More fundamentally, do you intend to take other specific measures to ensure Uber's compliance with the tax rules?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-25-54-commissie-ic126x.u5	Mr President, Mr Crusnière, a check is currently under way in the general administration of the Special Inspectorate for Taxes. The tax codes give means of investigation to control agents who, of course, are obliged to follow the prescribed procedures scrupulously. Given the professional secrecy to which the agents are bound, it is not possible for me to give you precise information about this file, which is still under examination.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-25-54-commissie-ic126x.u6	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your answer. I hear an investigation is being conducted by the ISI, which is reassuring. Be sure that we will continue to pay attention to this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-25-54-commissie-ic126x.u7	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, I would like to ask you about the action taken a few days ago by the FPS Finance employees. The aim of this action was to denounce working conditions within this department. More specifically, the union wanted to denounce the lack of material and human resources to combat tax fraud effectively. Moreover, this situation clearly raises the question of the place that this Government wants to place in the fight against tax fraud. We have already had an opportunity to debate it in this committee. While it is a matter of intensifying this policy, we are concerned about this lack of material and human resources. Madam Secretary of State, could you tell us the number of agents assigned to the fight against tax fraud? Are any movements planned by the government? Finally, significant investments in equipment were made a few years ago in order to more effectively track down major tax fraud. This equipment needs to be maintained or even replaced. Can you give us a guarantee that the maintenance and replacement of these devices will indeed take place? Thank you in advance for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-25-54-commissie-ic126x.u8	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Crusnière, as a result of the measures taken by the government in 2012, the FPS Finance was able to recruit a significant number of public servants to combat tax evasion. Many of them have been assigned to the general administration of the Special Inspectorate of Taxes (SI). The other services also welcomed new officers. In preparation for their missions, they received adequate training. Depending on the administration to which they have been incorporated, they have the possibility, in relation to their own function, to attend additional specific training courses and/or seminars. I'm going to the numbers. Of the 120 new staff members, 68 are level A, 46 are level B and 6 are data miners. The ISI has a total contingent of 576 officers for its external services. Due to internal changes, retirements, staff movements following the changeover, this number is temporarily reduced to 566. Some of the 120 fraud trackers have been incorporated into the industry recovery service and are involved in the detection of fraud signals and mechanisms. At the level of general administration of collection and recovery, at least 25 new level A officers were recruited as a result of voluntary departures and postulations in other departments. Within the legal services of the various regional collection centres, 17 of these officers work specifically on complex cases related to the fraudulent insolvency organization. In addition, a legal department specializing in the processing of fraud cases, located in the Special Recovery Centre in Brussels, currently employs ten case managers, including three of the staff recruited in 2012. 19 new level A officers and 5 level B officers were recruited at the General Administration of Taxation. As part of the fight against fraud and increasing the effectiveness of control, e-audit courses are organised in a systematic manner. In addition, in the course of 2015, specific training is planned in order to be able to monitor the introduction and use of cash registers. The recruitment of 21 new level A and 41 level B officers took place in the General Administration of Customs and Excise. The Investigation and Research Authority, which is part of the AMD&A, has 281 research officers to date. Of these, 62 were recruited in 2012. In all cases, the fight against tax fraud remains and will remain a top priority in the FPS Finances for the coming years. The current government is convinced that, beyond the number of civil servants, the fight against tax fraud requires a modern and efficient tax administration, which uses the human and material resources at its disposal in an optimal manner. This announced modernization is not a futile word, since the general administration of the ISI, currently with just over 600 agents, including central services, is the first of the general administrations of the FPS Finances where the switchover operation is now completely completed. Just like the organiser of fraud mechanisms, the fight against fraud needs more than ever a multidisciplinary approach bringing together the different specialists competent in different tax laws at all stages of the procedure, but also in the field of computer and data mining. It is the objective of the operationalization of the work processes and of the new structure set up at ISI that aims to enhance the effectiveness of investigations by focusing on core tasks and the achievement of a truly integrated approach across all areas of expertise, with particular attention to knowledge sharing and continuous training of officers. Despite the known budgetary context of all, and in order to continue the modernisation of the finances, I can also assure the honourable Member that the major IT projects under way in the fight against tax fraud will continue in 2015: data mining, social network analysis (SNA), data warehouse framework contract, framework data mining assistance contract, e-audit investments, etc. Like the ever-changing fraud, the objective of the tax administration is to be able to adapt and anticipate changes of all kinds.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-25-54-commissie-ic126x.u9	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for all these details. You confirmed that the fight against tax evasion remains a priority of this government. We will be paying attention to the resources that will be requested and obtained in the next budgetary adjustment in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-25-54-commissie-ic126x.u10	So we come to the questions about SwissLeaks. Mr Gilkinet's question on the state's bourgeois election was already discussed in plenary and in committee, but is now coming back to us. I would ask you not to ask any questions about this, because it is the second time that this question has been asked about the bourgeois-party situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-25-54-commissie-ic126x.u11	Madam Secretary of State, this is a very interesting file. Now that the topical value has been taken away, a number of fellow Members seem to find it no longer so interesting to be here. The sequence was very interesting. On February 4 and 5 we get the message via several newspapers that Swiss banks would be dumping Belgian black savers at a high rate. Almost at the same time, on 7 and 8 February, we get a concerted action by journalists with a new release of data, which naturally creates the necessary consternation. Meanwhile, the Swiss authorities themselves investigated, even with a criminal investigation, where it is quoted that this may also be extended to bank officials. In that respect, it's pretty solid. What we are experiencing here today is, as it were, a kind of Swiss fiscal manipulite. We must pay attention to this, because this poses threats as well as opportunities. These crashed data are partly an umbrella, a paragliding that is given to those from whom one wants to be redeemed. Apparently it didn't go fast enough and so the top man is dragged into the bathtub. There are questions, however, because such international action with various journalists must have been a desired, clear mission, a deliberate leak. I have not heard a number of things so far. Was this really news to your administration, given the ongoing investigations? In the meantime, is there more insight into the extent of the evasion and avoidance? Are the unlocked data still subject to prosecution? Of course, the whole story of the bourgeois election is linked to that. This remains an element to be followed, but you have already mentioned it. My first questions, in particular, are now relevant. Was this news? Do we have a view of how great a person is?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-25-54-commissie-ic126x.u12	Mr Gilkinet, your question No 2274 on "the HSBC file and the fact that the State is taking civil action against the bank" has already been dealt with twice last week, including in plenary session. I believe that the answers already given should be respected in our work.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-25-54-commissie-ic126x.u13	Mr President, following on from the clarifications provided and the reported results of the HSBC investigation at the plenary session on 12 February, I would like to stress that, together with my administration, I share the indignation of Members that some taxpayers, supported by certain advisers, are still trying to avoid their tax obligations. As reported, the BBI is monitoring every evolution in this case closely. As soon as the press reported that the French tax administration might have additional information and names, on 16 February 2015, the BBI sent a letter to the French tax administration, Direction générale des finances publications, to obtain further information on the basis of the double taxation convention of 10 March 1964 following the recent ICIJ publications, in particular on the 722 new names. In this writing, of course, the urgency has been invoked. This request from the BBI follows on from its letter of 9 February 2010, to which the French tax authorities replied by handing over the contested CD-ROM on 7 July 2010. The Antwerp Court of First Instance has, moreover, recently ruled in a first judgment that that CD-ROM was lawfully obtained. It goes without saying that, immediately upon receipt of the information requested, the BBI will closely examine it and check it against the names and data already known in the HSBC investigation, which has been ongoing since 2010, in order to carry out, where appropriate, the necessary fiscal corrections. Finally, I would like to point out that the Belgian court is currently investigating the practices of the HSBC bank itself. The results of this study will undoubtedly play an important role in the steps to be taken against the bank concerned and some of its executives. With regard to the state of play of the legal part of the HSBC case and the Belgian parties involved, I should like to refer to the answers of my colleague in the Justice Department to the questions raised in this connection.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-25-54-commissie-ic126x.u14	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your answer and stick to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-25-54-commissie-ic126x.u15	This issue has been dealt with at various times in this committee. It is now the turn of the Secretary of State to respond. The ISI was also questioned on this subject. Care should be taken not to treat the same subject three times in three weeks. However, I give the floor to Mr Gilkinet because the item is on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-25-54-commissie-ic126x.u16	Mr President, if you make a final point, I will make one too. My question dates back to Mr Philipsen's visit to the Finance Committee and to the debate that you have spontaneously organised. Similarly, the previous question that you accused me of filing is also dated. The problem is that the Secretary of State does not make himself available for the Finance Committee. To blame myself for doing my job and putting questions by telling me that the subject has already been dealt with is inappropriate. The problem is that Mrs Sleurs comes too little into the Finance Committee to answer the questions. So there are old questions that have been dealt with elsewhere, which are said first that they do not fall within the jurisdiction of the minister but that of Ms.Sleurs, and then the minister answers, after having made communications to the press! As far as the ISI directive is concerned, I simply wanted to know the legal basis and the rates applied, and whether we were sure to know the origin of the regularised funds and not just the interests. What about pre-Directive practices? Mr Philipsen told us that there was a form of Cherry Picking on the part of taxpayers who wanted to regularize. It was on these issues that I wanted to take stock of. If the Secretary of State has any new information, it is with interest that I will hear it. If it merely confirms what we have already heard, responsibility is not in the head of the parliamentarian who is doing his or her job of monitoring the executive. This is a problem of presence in this committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-25-54-commissie-ic126x.u17	Madam Secretary of State, do you have any new elements?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-25-54-commissie-ic126x.u18	Mr President, I can provide the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-25-54-commissie-ic126x.u19	Is not the joint questions No 2610 by Georges Gilkinet and No 2810 by Karin Temmerman on amicable criminal transaction referred to in item 8 of the agenda relating to the same subject?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-25-54-commissie-ic126x.u20	No, I have two answers. Mr President, the honourable Member very faithfully recalls, at the opening of his question, that – at the plenary session on Thursday 5 February – the Minister of Finance confirmed the existence of an ISI directive on the taxation of late-declared income. It is therefore not correct to mention later, in the questions asked, possibilities for regularizations not provided for by law or relating to repatriated capital. The tax administration, in particular the ISI, strictly applies the legal provisions contained in the tax codes, which are, I would remind you, of public policy. As a result, when a taxpayer declares taxable income late, the administration is obliged to enroll the corresponding tax depending on the nature of the tax, which may or may not be imposed by the taxpayer. An appropriate administrative penalty, a tax increase or a proportional fine is always applied. Its scale shall be determined in the light of the circumstances of each case. Several hundred taxpayers have so far contacted the tax administration for the purpose of making a late tax return. As the Minister of Finance has already explained, it is with the aim of ensuring equal and consistent treatment of all these files that it has been decided to entrust them to the ISI. With the said treatment just beginning, the question of how much tax can be recovered is premature. Penalties described as administrative in domestic law have been recognized by the courts as being of a repressive nature. It follows that the general principle of law non bis in idem may apply where tax offences have been the subject of a definitive sanction – either administrative or criminal. On 20 September 2012, the legislator adopted the so-called "una via" law. In this way, it provided for the possibility of consultation between the King's prosecutor and the tax authorities on individual cases to decide together on the way forward to punish tax offences – a route that can be administrative or judicial in nature. The ISI Regional Directors are well aware of the benefits of this procedure. Therefore, it will most certainly be widely applied to late reporting files. Headquarters specifically encourages this practice. Legal proceedings are therefore perfectly possible in the case of fiscal criminal offences.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-25-54-commissie-ic126x.u21	Madam Secretary of State, I take note of your response, which broadly confirms what has been said by the Minister of Finance and the representative of the ISI. I retain the dissatisfaction expressed at the time in the Finance Committee on this subject. We look forward to the figures that will enable us to assess the validity of the system in terms of tax justice and the tracking of fraud.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-25-54-commissie-ic126x.u22	Mr President, my question relates to the follow-up to the hearing of the Court of Auditors at our committee meeting on Friday 27 February 2015. We have taken stock with her of the state of play in the fight against fraud, particularly with regard to the application of the principle of amicable criminal transactions in tax matters, a transaction that we have always challenged, namely before and after the passing of the law. The Court noted that it was not until September 2014 for the ISI to draft a general directive on amicable settlement in order to avoid different treatments from one regional office to another. We find ourselves here, in a way, in the same case as the one we have mentioned with regard to tax regularisation. Having said that, my questions had been addressed to the Minister of Finance, but I hope that the Secretary of State will be able to answer them. Madam Secretary of State, do you confirm the existence of this directive? What is its content since it has not been transmitted by the Court of Auditors? Can you provide it to Parliament, along with the regularisation directive? What problems and differential treatment justified its drafting? The Court of Auditors has informed us that an unsatisfactory situation has led to the publication of the directive in question. Can you provide us with figures by jurisdiction on the amicable agreements which have taken place, regional direction by regional direction, between the entry into force of the law and the publication of the directive? My objective is to know at what level the most important problems were, or, in any case, the most spectacular phenomena worthy of comment.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-25-54-commissie-ic126x.u23	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, in the Finance Committee of 27 February, a representative of the Court of Auditors referred to an instruction from the FPS Finance on the comprehensive friendly settlement. I would like to add that during the hearing Mr Frank Philipsen, the administrator-general of the BBI, was very surprised at the existence of that circular and the ruling on the Court of Auditors. Mr Philipsen said that there has actually been a general instruction on the comprehensive friendly settlement for a long time. This general instruction applies to all financial services and not only to the BBI, the FPS Finance or any other service. I would have liked some clarification on this. Is there a separate instruction for the BBI and one for the FPS? What exactly is this? The Court of Auditors makes it appear that there is a separate instruction. We would like to know the content of this. Why was a separate instruction issued? In any case, I think it is necessary for Parliament to have access to this information.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-25-54-commissie-ic126x.u24	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, before I answer the various questions asked, I would like to clarify the nature of the intervention of certain actors in a tax criminal transaction. The procedure of the criminal transaction always proceeds from an initiative of the King's prosecutor. It consists of extinguishing the public action by paying a sum of money, the amount of which is fixed by the prosecutor himself. The tax administration has no jurisdiction in determining the amount of this sum of money whose payment extinguishes the public action. In the case of a tax offence, Article 216bis of the Code of Criminal Investigation also requires the tax administration to agree to the conclusion of a transaction, with taxes and interest paid. It is the tax that is legally due, taking into account the personal circumstances of the taxpayer concerned by the transaction, that must be paid, including interest. In this respect, therefore, there is absolutely no question of what Mr Gilkinet describes as "amicable settlement". The instruction of 29 September 2014 is a joint instruction of the four general administrations of the FPS Finance involved in such procedures, but not an instruction specific to the AABBI (General Administration of the Special Tax Inspectorate). After all, it was established in consultation with representatives of all these general administrations. It goes without saying that these general administrations had to wait until they were invited by the prosecutors to take part in the conclusion of tax-criminal friendly settlements, because they took note of procedural issues to which a coordinated response had to be given by means of a joint instruction. There are therefore no problems of different tax treatment which have led to the drafting of the instruction, as it is always a question of the tax payable by law that has to be paid. The joint instruction provides for a centralised reporting of all procedures of tax-criminal friendly settlement, so that it will be possible to present figures and statistics in the future. For the procedures followed prior to the entry into force of the joint instruction, there is no reliable information as the reporting was not yet applicable.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-25-54-commissie-ic126x.u25	Madam Secretary of State, it is not the Member in front of you who calls these practices a friendly settlement, it is the law! And we challenge the law! If I have used the term settlement amicably, it is because it appears in the law for reasons that always escape me. You say that the tax administration does not have jurisdiction in determining the amounts claimed to the litigants who would benefit from such a transaction. From the beginning, we find it problematic that there is no reference tariff for these transactions or the ability to verify that what is due is paid and that there is sufficient sanction to state on behalf of the company that we do not accept tax fraud. I also wish to express my dissatisfaction when you say that we do not have reliable figures today concerning the situation before the directive. As controllers of the executive, we are unable to verify that things have happened correctly. The Court of Auditors, which is our armed arm in the area of control, cannot do so either, whereas the recommendations of the Committee of Inquiry on Big Tax Fraud were clear as regards the supervisory role to be given to the Court of Auditors on this subject. So we haven't finished talking about it. You must provide Parliament with figures that will enable us to assess how this is going. We cannot compromise in secret for acts as serious as large cases of tax fraud that have passed through the meshes of the amicable criminal transaction.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-25-54-commissie-ic126x.u26	Madam Secretary of State, your answer is hallucinating when you say that you cannot give figures about it. I think it is essential that we get these figures effectively. I also did not receive a clear answer on the circular mentioned. Can I see from your answer that there is one circular that applies to all services? Can you also tell me exactly when that circular dates?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-25-54-commissie-ic126x.u27	of 29 September 2014. This is a joint instruction of the four general administration of the FPS Finance involved in those proceedings and not specific to the AABBI.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-25-54-commissie-ic126x.u28	I really think it is necessary for us to be able to see this instruction, otherwise we will not be able to exercise our parliamentary control. We should also be able to assess in future how and where this instruction has been applied. Measuring is knowing. In the future, I believe that this must be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-25-54-commissie-ic126x.u29	Debates of the European Parliament Question No 26, by Mr Luk Van Biesen 2772 of Mr Peter Vanvelthoven were decoupled and both postponed to the next meeting. Debates of the European Parliament 2686 by Mr Benoît Dispa has already been dealt with. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Benoît Dispa's 2701 was deleted because the author was not present. Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l 2729 and 2730 by Mr Roel Deseyn will be converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Brecht Vermeulen's 3054 was deleted because the author was not present. Debates of the European Parliament 3059 by Mr Jean-Marc Delizée, reference is made to the Committee on Industry. Questions Nos 3286, 3287 and 3288 by Mr Benoît Dispa are deleted because the author is not present.
