ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic236x.u1	Madam President, Minister, the online investigation conducted by GfK, at the request of the Cancer Foundation, reveals that two out of three young people have been confronted with tobacco advertising in the past three months, mainly in news stores. Of those interviewed, the majority consider that the exposure of packages at points of sale can be equated with advertising. More than seven out of ten young adults agree with the total ban on this display. Young Belgians also consider that neutral packages (without logos or advertising) such as those existing in Australia are less attractive while being sufficiently informative. The Cancer Foundation insists that measures be taken to make smoking less attractive for young people. These measures include the prohibition of all forms of tobacco advertising, including display at outlets and the introduction of neutral cigarette packages, as is already the case in Australia, Ireland, the United Kingdom and France, where policy decisions are also taken. Minister, what about it? I believe that these elements only reinforce what was already established in terms of the international study, including the study carried out by the University of Antwerp in this respect. I have been constantly advocating for progress in this area. I have also tabled various texts for this purpose. When will the government finally take action on this matter? This is complementary and will not be replaced by European decisions which will also have to be implemented in a year's time. My second attached question concerns the price of tobacco, particularly excise duty, as a result of the government's decisions taken last July. In this regard, we can ask ourselves questions about the choices made by the government. The National Coalition Against Tobacco, which brings together associations such as the Cancer Foundation and the Respiratory Disorders Fund, has written to the Minister of Finance about the government's decision to increase the price of tobacco to the amount of 225 million additional revenues in 2018, as the Prime Minister has provided us with. The Coalition's first criticism is that the expected increase will not have a real impact on tobacco consumption, as the height of increase is insufficient. To have a clear deterrent effect, the price of rolling tobacco should increase each year by at least 1 euro and the cigarette pack by 50 cents. The studies have demonstrated this. The other criticism, which is particularly challenging, is that the government's decision allows the tobacco industry to receive an additional €261 million. Clearly, the government has chosen the technique of proportional excise duty. This technique allows part of the "bonus" to go into the pocket of cigar makers, whereas if the government chose the technique of specific excise duties, all taxes would come back to the state level. This would enable it to make progress in particular in the budgets to be proposed for aid for smoking cessation, which is obviously an important issue. Minister, how do you position yourself against this? Is it not in your role, as Minister of Public Health, to intervene within the government and with the Minister of Finance to ensure that the technique of specific excise duties is used and that part of the "bonus" is not allowed to go into the pockets of cigar manufacturers?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic236x.u2	Madam President, Minister, my question goes in the same direction. The tax shift that was a hot item for the holiday would ensure by 2018 that cigarettes would cost 0.70 euro more. That measure would, on the one hand, serve the State Treasury with about 225 million euros by 2018 I have read this and, on the other hand, it would encourage people to quit smoking. Like my colleague, I have to say that the great winner of this measure seems to be the tobacco companies, which would have an additional EUR 261 million in three years, purely through the mechanism used. We believe that you will perhaps clarify this in a moment, and that the price for a pack of cigarettes per year may only rise in a minute if that measure is introduced. In this way, the impact on tobacco consumption will be nil. This has been proven several times in the past and all the experts are of the same opinion. The National Coalition Against Tobacco, which, as you know, brings together many organisations, believes that a completely wrong strategy is being used to discourage tobacco users from smoking. The National Coalition Against Tobacco really believes that one could not have imagined a worse scenario than the system that is currently being used. By using proportional excise duties, tobacco manufacturers have more room to determine their own prices and profit margins, which, of course, is not a good thing when we talk about betrayal. Madam Secretary, my questions are as follows. How exactly will this price increase be implemented? Will that indeed be with bits and pieces in the following years? In the minutes we can read that the Minister for Health, responsible for the Tobacco Plan, will be consulted in order not to take counterproductive excise measures. In the meantime, however, we have not heard from you about this. The experts also argue that counter-productive excise measures have been taken. That's why I would have liked to hear from you how you rhyme with your health concerns?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic236x.u3	Madam Secretary, I'll add one more in line, but on roll tobacco. It's five times cheaper than ordinary cigarettes in our country. These low prices also encourage young people to start smoking, because it is cheaper. The number of young people smoking has also increased in previous years. The previous colleagues have already said that the tax shift would include an increase in the excise duty on tobacco. I read that this would also be the case for roll tobacco, from which my questions. Firstly, what is the increase in excise duty on this typical rolling tobacco? Will this have an effect on health expenditure? As has already been said by my colleague and as health economists say, only price doubling has an effect on health, because then people stop smoking. This is not the case with a small measure. Secondly, you are in the process of transposing the EU directive on clear information on cigarette packets. What about this advertising for this type of tobacco at sales places? Finally, where do you stand with the smoke-stop medication and its reimbursement? What is the amount of the general increase in excise duty on tobacco?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic236x.u4	Madam President, I have heard that Mr Fonck has also asked a question about the neutral cigarette package. My question No. 6263 under paragraph 40 also deals with this. I therefore ask that this question be added and that everything on tobacco be dealt with together. [[Assent]] We have already had an exchange of views in this committee on neutral cigarette packets. You referred to the study from Australia and would look into how it works there, in order to provide a well-founded answer here on the neutral package. What is the status of your evaluation? Is it almost finished? Any leads yet? If not, what will be the timetable? I'll get back to the tax shift. I'm a little more positive than the members of the opposition. There's gonna be a tax shift, the cigarettes are gonna be more expensive. What that model will look like is still under development. It is true, and I follow the opposition in that, that, in addition to price increases, there remains an important role for prevention and deprivation. That is not really clear at the moment. In this context, I have a few questions. Something was said about the increase in excise duty on roll tobacco, but that was not clarified at a later date. It was only briefly discussed and I do not know if you have any more information on it. How much will the increase in excise duties be? Have you had contact with Minister Van Overtveldt about the tax shift and accompanying awareness-raising measures? What's the outcome of that meeting? Will there be additional flanking measures that also involve sensitisation? If so, which one? What's the timing?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic236x.u5	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, there is a great deal of interest in tobacco. You should know that the Council of Ministers will have to decide on all these measures on Friday. I will reply, subject to changes by meetings which are still taking place and the decision of the Council of Ministers on Friday, because I do not have a glass ball. The measures provided for in the 2014 European Directive will improve the protection of the population from the scourge of tobacco. In addition to strengthening health warnings on packages, strengthening ingredient legislation and banning characterising flavourings, the Directive also allows Member States to implement the neutral package. In order to be able to conduct a calm debate based on reliable data, I have asked my services to prepare a report on the effectiveness of this measure in Australia as well as on the preparations in the three European Union countries mentioned above. This report will be sent to me during the last quarter and will serve as a basis for the debate and for the adaptations to be undertaken in accordance with the European Directive. I am aware that the price of tobacco products plays a major role in tobacco control. The taxation of tobacco products is, of course, a responsibility of my colleague from Finance, Mr Van Overtveldt. I therefore invite you to ask him for detailed information. I am truly convinced that cooperation is possible to combine an increase in income with a decrease in the number of smokers. That is what we will work on together. As regards the questions on the reimbursement of smoke-stop medicines, Mrs Dedry, some medicines containing bupropion, under the brand name Zyban, and varenicline, such as Champix, are reimbursed according to specified criteria. Those proprietary medicinal products are reimbursed through Chapter IV and are therefore part of a prior check. In order to obtain the refund, the treating doctor or tobaccologist must provide a completed refund application form to the medical practitioner of the patient's sickness fund, who can deliver an authorization for reimbursement to the patient. Proprietary medicinal products are only reimbursed if they are prescribed as therapeutic support in nicotine-dependent patients who are motivated to quit, in association with supportive behavioural therapy. In order to obtain the refund, the rightholder must fulfil a certain condition of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, stages 2, 3 or 4 of the new GOLD classification, demonstrated by spirometry, and have agreed with the treating physician to follow supportive behavioral therapy. Now it turns out that a lot of people also want to make a second attempt to quit and are even more motivated, in July 2015 it was decided to pay back a second smoke stop attempt with varenicline. That decision entered into force on 1 October. So we have not waited, Mrs Fonck, Mrs Hufkens, for the decisions on excise duties to be taken, among other things, to strengthen the deterrent and accompanying function of the Public Health Office. As far as prevention is concerned, Mrs Hufkens, you know that it does not fall within my competence. Nevertheless, the signal is clear. Other nicotine substitutes, such as Nicorette and Nicotinell, are not refunded, nor are electric cigarettes. There are no generics. Mrs Fonck, you also talked about the neutral package. You have also made this proposal. Mrs. Hufkens and Mrs. Dedry, you also referred to it. As announced, I asked my administration for an evaluation. We will include it in the transposition of the European directive. Mrs Dedry, with regard to roll tobacco, this will be discussed on Friday. We know that roll tobacco is much cheaper. Roller tobacco is also sold in the shops in buckets the size of a pot of ceiling paint. The effort to discourage rolling tobacco will therefore have to be relatively higher as it is much cheaper than abroad. Once again, this is a decision of the government as a whole. We can propose this, but these proposals still have to be adopted on Friday.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic236x.u6	Minister, thank you for your answers. With regard to the first part, on advertising and the neutral package, the study conducted by GfK at the request of the Foundation against Cancer was discussed. A little over two months ago, the majority had swept away my proposal for a law on the neutral package, arguing that this measure was not effective. I note, in any case, that you have requested a report from your administration. So this is a small step forward. I hope that in this committee we will be able to discuss a discussion which was made impossible just two months ago. As for the tax side, the increase in tobacco prices remains an important issue for me. Of course, it is not acceptable for you to refer this matter to the Minister of Finance. As Minister of Public Health, you must adopt a very ambitious position in terms of tobacco control. It's your responsibility. No decision has yet been taken. You must therefore make sure, at this Friday's Council of Ministers, that it is the technique of specific excise duties, and not that of proportional excise duties, that will be used. If this is not the case, the government – and you, in particular, as Minister of Public Health – will allow the tobacco lobby to pack 261 million euros, a real gift to producers. In this way, they will still be able to expand their marketing and advertising channels to the most vulnerable audience – i.e., young people. I urge you to assume your responsibilities as Minister of Health. This is an essential issue. I know you're sensitive to it, but then show it, including to the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic236x.u7	Madam Secretary, I cannot get rid of the impression that the government has put the cart in front of the horse. You are talking about a number of measures, but there is still no plan. Apparently, you are carefully putting forward a number of things by Friday. However, you will not tell me that the increase in excise duty in question is part of a plan you already had on a tobacco policy. Clearly, there is no such plan. So I really cannot get rid of the impression that this is a pure tax increase, which is intended to harden the State treasury. That's a missed opportunity, isn't it? It could have been a good project, in which that neutral package could have played a role, with special attention being given to roll tobacco and a number of other measures could have been included. For the time being, however, we do not see anything. I agree with my colleague who states that she really wants to push you, so to speak, to work on such a project. I sincerely hope that a real tobacco policy will be put into practice on Friday. For the time being, however, I must honestly admit that I remain pessimistic in this matter. Things seem to me to be a bit of a mess in the margins. If you get something out of it on Friday, at least you have my full support.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic236x.u8	Madam Secretary, I understand you see the problem with roll tobacco. I therefore assume that, as you clearly support and support the problem, your proposal will be so strong at the forthcoming Council of Ministers that we will see a clear result. We will follow up on the problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic236x.u9	Madam Minister, I would just like to reply to Mrs Fonck, who accuses the majority of not wanting to go along with her proposal and just throw it off the table because she is not dealing with tobacco advertising. That's not right. We asked to wait until we had these good studies on the implementation of the European Tobacco Directive. Madam Secretary, I am more positive. After all, I hear you want to work with Minister Van Overtveldt. That's an important signal. You may note that prevention is a Flemish competence, which is entirely correct. However, the Minister of Health can make an important impression on that model, by stressing that the aspect of deprivation must also be addressed. That's very important, but I hear you want to do it. Then there's the Australian study. Is there any possibility that we could look at that evaluation or not?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic236x.u10	I will come here with that because it will be an important element of the plan. Mrs. Jiroflée, I'm not in favour of plans, I'm taking measures. Plans, plans, plans, we've heard that word a hundred thousand times here. If there are no follow-up measures, then there is little point in having plans. In any case, that will be an element in the position we choose. It will be tested in the light of the transposition of the European Directive. There are other issues involved, not only the neutral package but also, for example, the extension of the smoking ban. These are all elements that contribute to the debate. No one will suspect me that I am in favour of smoking. I kept knocking on that nail when I was sitting on Members' benches, and I am therefore very sensitive to that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic236x.u11	Madam Minister, we await the results of all these studies and their implementation. Madam Minister, you are sending a very important signal when you say that this roll tobacco is a problem and that there is a need to make considerable efforts to do so. Our group can support that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic236x.u12	Let me remind you that we are in a question-and-answer logic. There is therefore a limited speaking time. I am not going to interrupt you, but I ask you to try to formulate the question in three minutes, the answer within the same time frame, and then make a short reply. Mrs Fonck, you have the floor to ask your question about the future pact with the pharmaceutical industry (No 5888).
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic236x.u13	I propose to turn this question into a written question, Madam Chair.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic236x.u14	All right.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic236x.u15	It is an important pact that has been concluded with industry.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic236x.u16	Madam Minister, if I turn it into a written question, it is not because I am not interested in the subject. The question is very long, and I ask for a lot of clarification. I want to avoid reading because the subject is worth a broader debate than just a question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic236x.u17	I have a detailed answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic236x.u18	Beautiful. I'll take it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic236x.u19	But I was also going to tell you that I am prepared to give the committee, at a more appropriate time, a detailed presentation of the pact. It could then be used to ask all the questions that fit into this theme. The pact has four components and many questions could be asked in this regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic236x.u20	This is a very broad debate. That is why I find it impossible to do it properly in the context of a three-minute oral question. I therefore propose that the question be turned into a written question and that we return to the subject at a later stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic236x.u21	The question is therefore transformed into a written question. And if the committee shows its interest in doing so – and it seems to me that it is the case – we will have a moment on the agenda to discuss it at length. In this case, I would urge members not to table questions in the coming weeks on the subject, as we will return to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic236x.u22	Minister, a new administration contract between the federal government and the eHealth platform is to be adopted for the period 2016-2018. As you have seen in my question, my questions are numerous and require much more than three minutes of speaking time. These are important issues. They relate to changes in the composition of the organs of the platform, of representation. They refer to the e-health action plan, with cascading consequences. A whole series of changes are also planned in budgetary terms, in terms of mobile health. In terms of the functioning of the platform, there are also changes that are far from trivial. For the sake of efficiency, rather than reviewing all the questions that you have already seen, I prefer to give you more time to answer them.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic236x.u23	Minister, my question is very short since many specific questions have already been asked. This platform is experiencing ups and downs; I see that there are still incomprehensions and that progress sometimes seems chaotic. That is why I would like to stress a few points. I am thinking in particular of the governance style of eHeath and Smals with turn overs. What steps have you taken to improve the relationship between eHeath staff and service providers, as well as between them? In addition, the deputy head was to be assessed. Can you give me any information about this? Has the applicant been reappointed? If not, has a call for applications been launched?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic236x.u24	Madam Chair, first of all I must say that yesterday, an invitation was sent to all members of the commission regarding the final meeting at the Royal Library next Wednesday.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic236x.u25	We sent the invitation to members this morning asking them to register today or tomorrow. Unfortunately, this falls at the same time as the first plenary session, following the government statement.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic236x.u26	I didn't choose the date!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic236x.u27	As a group leader, I'll be stuck in plenary. Could we invite the collaborators?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic236x.u28	You can register whoever you want.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic236x.u29	The condition is to do so today or tomorrow.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic236x.u30	I come to my answer. Every public social security institution, including the eHealth platform, negotiates a new administrative contract every three years with its appropriate minister. As provided for in the law, the eHealth platform submitted a draft contract to my political cell on time, after approval by its management committee. Although bilateral negotiations are not yet fully concluded on this subject and some provisions which have already been adapted will certainly evolve further, I can nevertheless give a succinct answer to the questions submitted. First of all, the powers of the eHealth Platform Users Consultation Committee are enshrined in Article 22 of the Law of 21 August 2008 on the installation and organisation of the eHealth Platform, which contains various provisions, and do not necessarily need to be exhaustively listed in the Administrative Contract. It goes without saying that the administration contract complies with the basic regulation of the platform and the eHealth roadmap 2013-2018, version 2.0 is still under review. It will be validated for the next interdepartmental public health conference. Common base registry for health care actoris the authentic source consolidated and common to the various public institutions that are competent for the recognition of health care actors in Belgium. Some entities or professionals have an ECB number. CoBRHA uses ECB data, the Bank-Carrefour des Entreprises, but to consolidate information on ECB numbers. The CoBRHA+ partners are, on the one hand, CoBRHA's former partners, notably the Public Health FPS, INAMI, the Walloon Region (specifically the Walloon Health Public Service), the Flemish Community, the Flemish Region (specifically the Welzijn Volksgezondheid department in Gezin) and AFMPS, and, on the other hand, new partners, COCOF and COCOM, the French Community and the German-speaking Community. It is essential to promote the Belgian model abroad, in particular through the exchange of good practice. This model should promote a well-organised international data exchange that provides useful safeguards for the protection of the patient's privacy in need of medical care abroad. As early as 2016, a new strategy is proposed for the registration of medical software. The overall approach to evaluating the software will be modified. The monitoring system at specific evaluation times will gradually be replaced by a more dynamic system of continuous evaluation. This new approach was also endorsed by the eHealth Platform Management Committee. For this purpose, the editorial committee responsible for adaptations to the website www.patientconsent.be uses an electronic form drawn up by representatives of the following partners: the political unit of the Minister of Public Health, Vitalink, Abrumet (the Walloon health network), patient organisations, INAMI, the Public Health FPS and the ICD. The Single Window has been created to allow for integrated service delivery and thus prevent healthcare providers from facing a multitude of different portals. As regards its financing, the allocation keys will be determined according to the needs of the different partners. Mobile Health is listed as a point of action in the above-mentioned roadmap. The feasibility study will examine the security and privacy aspects in detail. Guarantees for privacy, patient protection and secure access to data must be as effective as guarantees for non-mobile applications. The semi-annual reporting is always to the attention of the Management Committee, which is composed in particular of the users of the eHealth platform and in which various stakeholders of the User Consultation Committee, its Chairman and Vice-Chairmen are represented. This avoids double reporting. Its representatives may, if they so wish, transmit the relevant documents to the Consultation Committee. The latest issues relate to synergies between public social security institutions that are integrated into all administrative contracts. First of all, it is the G-Cloud, a common governance infrastructure that is developed for several public social security institutions and federal public services. Moreover, any public social security institution which develops services itself or uses services from third parties is invited to offer, within its possibilities, its services at a cost within the framework of the synergies envisaged, in particular to the other administrative authorities. As far as the management budget for the years 2016 to 2018 is concerned, as I have already told you, negotiations are still under way. We will try to calculate what appears on the roadmap. We will have the means to move things forward.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic236x.u31	Thank you, Minister, for your answers. So everything about the electronic component, particularly regarding patient records, and therefore linked to the e-Health platform, is an important issue for which it would be good if this new contract for the period 2016-2018 allowed to emerge from the top of the difficulties of recent years, whether in terms of governance or functionality. You confirm to me that the item will pass through an interdepartmental conference and therefore that this consultation with the federated entities will be effective. I think it's fundamental. We must also be able to align ourselves with what others have already developed for several years. I am thinking, for example, of the electronic file and all the work done by the Walloon health network. This is one example among others, but it is obviously important. At the closing of the round table on June 24, 2015, you established the e-Health Action Plan. I believe that this new version, updated 2.0, must also be validated by the Interdepartmental Health Conference. I think that we should also be careful about the composition. I've been told about reshuffles that change the balance of power in the presence today. It will also be necessary to ensure that patient representative associations - LUSS and Vlaamse Patientenplatform - are properly associated with the e-Health platform. I would also like to encourage you, Madam Minister, to remain attentive; the new contract provides, as you have said here, that any public social security institution which develops services will be able, at a cost, to exchange data in a transversal way at the level of all public services. So I want to draw your attention to the fact that it is important to keep clear and strict locks in respect of patient records. It could not be imagined for a single second that it would be used in other frameworks, particularly in the fight against social fraud. These are patient-owned data.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic236x.u32	Minister, have you ever answered me?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic236x.u33	I have already answered in your presence a question from Ms.Yoleen Van Camp about the assessment of Mr.Robben that took place on May 11 after the notices were filed. His assessment was positive. So I can repeat the answer I gave at the time to Mrs Van Camp.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic236x.u34	I'll go find her.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic236x.u35	This is oral question No 5225 by Mrs Yoleen Van Camp.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic236x.u36	Madam Secretary, new technologies have dominated healthcare for some time. In recent years, we have seen enormous developments thanks to the new media, such as telemedicine and telemonitoring, whether or not via mobile communication devices. They've been on the rise for years. You have drawn up a plan to integrate them into health policy and provide for the necessary reimbursement. We see these developments particularly in medical fields with a lot of technical research, for example in the field of cardiology. The innovation consists mainly in reducing the distance between the patient and the healthcare provider when providing care or collecting medical data. Now we also see new developments in the field of psychiatry thanks to the new media. Serious games are being developed. For people with depressed tendencies, games are developed to train away pessimistic thinking. In the game you can earn more points when you make a positive assessment. Recently, a neuropsychologist at Cambridge University developed an iPad application that trains memory. The app, based on scientific principles, trains the episodic memory of the brain. Schizophrenia affects the world of thought and experience in such a way that patients sometimes no longer distinguish between fantasy and reality. In a recovery period episodic memory loss is common, which makes it difficult to get back to work or study. There is currently no treatment for this, either through therapy or medication. The scientifically developed game could offer a solution. This evolution poses new challenges for health insurance. After all, a completely new product appears on the scene in health care, in addition to classical medical-technical performance and consultation, whether remote or not. It also fits very well in a policy to respond to the new challenges, in particular the huge increase in chronic diseases. We can only achieve this challenge if we make the patient much more actor in the disease process, by providing him with the necessary knowledge of his condition and developing skills to respond appropriately when he identifies certain symptoms. The new app was developed to restore episodic memory faster and allows patients to function better in society and in the labour market. After an attack, they will be able to re-enter the labour market more quickly. In this sense, this kind of new methodology contributes to the socialisation of care. Madam Minister, what is your position on a possible refund of the games as a kind of technical achievement, in addition to the classic instruments such as medicines and therapy? In view of the fact that the Communities and the federal government share the competence in the field of mental health care, I would like to know if you have any discussions with the Community ministers on how to deal with this new phenomenon in mental health care.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic236x.u37	Mrs Somers, the nomenclature includes the reimbursement of a consultation with the psychiatrist. This consultation may include different forms of psychotherapy in the case of long-term consultation. The nomenclature does not specify how such consultation should be carried out. It is therefore possible that a psychiatrist may recommend this type of treatment to his patient. Also in the context of reimbursed multidisciplinary rehabilitation programmes and psychiatric hospitalisations, the care providers concerned, during certain sessions, have the freedom to work with other forms of therapy. To repay the serious games themselves, there are currently no projects running. A limited number of studies have already been carried out on the use of the serious games for therapeutic purposes. Those studies compare, inter alia, the classical treatment methods "group' or "individual' of a mental health problem with a treatment that addresses games and other computer-controlled therapies. In general, the studies show that the efficiency of the electronic methods is similar but not superior to the traditional treatment methods. Some electronic games were better accepted, as more pleasant experienced or increased engagement and/or motivation. Moreover, the latter was not always the case. Further empirical research remains therefore necessary to confirm the effectiveness of the methods in question. The Communities and the Regions are also competent. No formal consultations have yet been held with them on this instrument. We've never been asked that question. We will mention it, but it has not yet been reported to us. I think there will have to be some scientific evidence for this first. That will also come from the field, because such trends always blow over. If the thearpie is equal, the choice can be made. I would remind you that the therapeutic option is already great among psychiatrists. We'll see.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic236x.u38	Madam Minister, it is of course necessary to await clear results of studies before we take important steps. You are following developments on a permanent basis and will, if deemed necessary and important, discuss matters with the Communities. As you point out, therapeutic freedom is already broad, but new developments in the market are always important to follow.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic236x.u39	My question No 5910 concerns process validation and control of generic medicines. If we could discuss it more comprehensively with the drug stakeholders, I propose to turn it into a written question. We could also include your written response in this discussion.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic236x.u40	Madam President, Madam Minister, the general practitioners and specialists are preparing to organise the renewed specialist training for general practitioners from 2018. By analogy with specialist training, the general practitioner will also spend a number of years in the field, more specifically three years, with the internships masters in the general practitioners' world, but also in the hospital environment, before taking his place as a full general practitioner in society. We are told that certain university institutions would like to take a preliminaries and only use experienced trainees who have had practical experience for at least one year. The practical trainers and the general practitioners in vocational training themselves, however, want the hospital placement in year 7 instead of year 8, i.e. in the first year. A stalemate threatens, given the muscular display of large university hospitals in this matter. In our view, this approach makes little sense and depends above all on the individual preference of individuals on the ground, but less on a rather corporatist reflex, to attract only the more experienced trainees. What is your position on this?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic236x.u41	Minister, the regulations on internships will be reviewed with respect to their funding, the status and the status of internships abroad. This is obviously essential because it is not always easy to find internships in general or specialized medicine. Maybe you'll tell me that I come back a lot with this subject. Still it is that in 2018 we will be faced with a double cohort due to the shift from seven years of medicine to six. Twice more doctors are going out. This will therefore require doubling the places devoted to internships. What is your status in this regard? What about the revision of the internship regulations? You referred last February to in-depth investigations that were to lead to conclusions. Are they written and available? What measures do you intend to take to improve the management of internships? How can we ensure that each physician – general practitioner or specialist – has an internship location? What is the timing of any regulatory amendments? Finally, I cannot help but ask you about the financing of these internships.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic236x.u42	Mr Vercammen, Madame Fonck, in general medicine, the duration of professional training as a recognized general practitioner will indeed be extended from two to three years from 2018. In reality this was already the case, but the first year of specialisation could still be done together with the seventh year of basic training. So it's going to be six plus three instead of seven plus two years. This was already provided for in the Ministerial Decision of 1 March 2010 laying down the criteria for the recognition of general practitioners, which was in line with the general principle of Article 28 of the European Directive of 7 September 2005 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the recognition of professional qualifications. The internships take place at recognized internships in general medical practice and recognized internships in hospitals. Traineeships in these hospital services must be at least six months and not more than 12 months of professional training. The interuniversity centre for general practitioner training ICHO in Flanders and the individual universities in Wallonia play a coordinating role in the allocation of general practitioners in training for an internship in a hospital service. Those institutions and the actors involved will always strive to find a fruitful match between the general practitioner in training and the internship service and that for the development of the general practitioner in training. The extension of 50% of the duration of professional training does indeed mean a greater demand for placements. The number of recognized internships for internships in general medical practice seems to be able to rely on a reserve. Contacts have already been established between the recognized training centres and the hospitals for the organization of the soon-to-be compulsory training courses in hospitals. The time at which the compulsory hospital placement takes place during the general practitioner's training curriculum is a purely operational matter which must be cleared out on the field itself. This coincides with the effects of the double cohort in 2018. Both the doctors who started their studies of seven years of medicine in 2011 and the cohort who started the six-year study in 2012 will be able to count on sufficient places for their professional training. Meeting the challenge of the dual cohort of medical students without sacrificing the quality of the training offered is a major concern for my administration and for myself. As already mentioned, work is still under way, particularly within the Higher Council of Specialist Physicians and General Practitioners. In this context, all the parties concerned are consulted and all the opinions gathered so far show that we need to pay particular attention to three parameters: the available volume of traineeships; the maintenance of the quality of vocational training; and adequate funding. As the work is still under way, I cannot yet communicate any necessary conclusions or legislation. However, there is every indication that a combination of measures will be necessary, such as: - encouraging both teachers and traineeships in specialized medicine and general medicine to engage in the training of young confreres in training; - facilitate and promote internships abroad, research courses and combinations of different types of internships during training; - to amend certain criteria for the approval of teachers and traineeship services combined with the revision of existing activity criteria in order to take into account new criteria such as consultations, day hospitalisation, etc. The likely budgetary impact has yet to be accurately calculated. This impact will in any case be temporary since the double cohort will last for a single year and will not reoccur. A new consultation with all parties involved is planned for all aspects of internships abroad. It is necessary, for example, to analyse the availability and interest of foreign centres and the motivation of trainees for this type of work experience. You also refer to the funding of internship places for specialist doctors. In addition to the provisions in the nomenclature, a budget is provided for in Part B7 of the budget. The current medicomut agreement contains a passage which states that it will examine ways of broadening its field of application. As regards the financing of the vocational training of the general practitioner, INAMI provides for a flat-rate allowance for each general practitioner candidate and for each year of training. All this is stipulated in the Royal Decree of 17 July 2009 laying down the amount and procedures for the payment of the allowance for general practitioner candidates whose article 3 specifies the conditions for the use of this allowance. The allowance is fixed through the approved coordination centres for general medical training as stipulated in the Royal Decree of 21 April 1983 laying down the procedures for the accreditation of specialist doctors and general practitioners. For the year 2015-2016, this allowance amounts to approximately 30 000 euros per general practitioner candidate per year. Filling is done from 2019. The increase in the duration of vocational training is increased from two to three years and is estimated at 12 million per year in the event of full application. The calculation is there, the challenge is now to find the money, but I am counting on your support. I can therefore assure you that the problems of the 2018 double cohort, the change in the rules at the internship sites and the financing of these internships are still being thoroughly investigated, which requires time. The committee is formed, it meets and we are trying to find solutions that are, as you say, acceptable to each other. Above all, we ensure the quality of training. For example, we could double the number of students who can do an internship with a doctor, but if we are sure that the doctor will have the ability to look after two students instead of one. It's not that simple when it comes to quality as well. I believe that muscle roll is not new in this kind of negotiation, but we also know that the soup is never eaten as hot as it is served.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic236x.u43	Madam Secretary, thank you for your clear statement. Like you, we are in favour of the principle of de minimis non-curat praetor, the chief is not concerned with idleness. We will, of course, continue to support you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic236x.u44	Madam Chair, Minister, thank you for your answer. I'm sure we don't have to rush. However, there is still a need to move forward as questions remain unanswered. You don't become an internship master overnight. It will therefore take some time when clear decisions are made to become operational before the famous double exit from the cohort. I can only share your point of view when you say that quality must be the sine qua non condition and the guiding thread, including for the double cohort. Internships abroad – let's not dream! – do not constitute such a great manna. There will be a small number of additional people. Why not? However, if you change specific temporary criteria so that you can manage this dual cohort, you may be at risk of attributing physicians who may become a trainee if these criteria are limited to one year. In addition to quality, the challenge will be to be sufficiently attractive, but also, Madam Minister – I stress this point – to have simple administrative procedures so that potential candidates are not discouraged even before they have applied because of relatively cumbersome administrative procedures.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic236x.u45	Madam Minister, the new fees for the flat-rate medical imaging fees were recently released from 1 July 2015. These amounts range from 26.87 and 35.5 euros for good Kempian regional hospitals such as Geel and Lier, to 117.28 euros for UZA Edegem. Other large amounts we see for Mont-Godinne in Namur with just under 100 euros or 106,67 euros in St-Luc in Bouge. These amounts are more than a sip on the drink for many hospitals to get the necessary budget to get the year around. The differences between the institutions raise questions in the field. It is claimed that the pseudo nomenclature numbers are produced in an extremely complex way. Indeed, the differences found, which would result from the calculation basis based on a number of APR-DRGs, are quite large. It is reported that the system used would be incorrect and not transparent. The control of pathology registration would also remain inadequate, and if someone were caught on the systematic collection of pathology data there would be hardly any sanctions. The distribution takes place within a closed budget where one eats a bit of each other's cheese. How do the differences in the system come about? What do you, as Minister, think of these differences? Isn't there a lack of transparency? How is this checked for authenticity? Is this process being evaluated and adapted in the light of the review of hospital funding? If so, is there any indication in which direction this will go?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic236x.u46	First of all, I would like to point out that the flat-rate medical imaging fees per admission are always calculated by the RIZIV on the basis of the relevant legislation, in particular in accordance with Article 8 of the Royal Decree of 10 March 2009 implementing Article 69, Paragraph 1 of the Law on compulsory medical care insurance and benefits relating to the calculation rules of the flat-rate medical imaging fees paid per entry. These advances are partly calculated on the basis of the average use across the country, not only in the home hospital, for imaging per patient diagnostic group. The fact that some hospitals have a higher flat rate than others therefore only proves that the case mix of patients in hospitals differs. Some hospitals treat more patients who require relatively more imaging on average than other hospitals. It was claimed that the calculation method would neither be correct nor transparent. The calculation method is detailed in the Royal Decree of 10 March 2009. If the method were not applied correctly, the hospitals and doctors would, of course, react quickly. Moreover, the registration of the minimum hospital data on which the calculations are based is regularly checked by the auditors of the Public Health Office. The method of calculating this flat rate is not discussed in the context of the reform of hospital funding but could be addressed at the yard of reviewing fees. In order to evaluate the calculation method and, if necessary, to modify it, the doctors have a forum through the National Committee on Medicine-Health Funds. So that can actually be addressed there.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic236x.u47	Madam Secretary, thank you for your clear answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic236x.u48	Madam President, Madam Secretary, the High Health Council issued an opinion on the vaccination against seasonal influenza. The Council proposes to maintain the existing opinions, but makes two important observations. The Council states that it makes sense to vaccinate all individuals between 50 and 65 years of age, even if they do not suffer from a risk disorder. As arguments for this, the High Health Council states that there is an increased risk of complications in these individuals and that there is a risk of one in three that this group exhibits at least one factor that increases the risk of complications. The board thinks of smoking, excessive drinking and/or obesity. The High Health Council also proposes to offer the vaccine to certain professional groups, in particular poultry and pig breeders, and their families and individuals who, by their profession, come into contact with live poultry or live pigs. The High Health Council also announces a subsequent opinion, in particular as a result of the placing on the market of weakened live quadrivalent vaccines or inactivated vaccines. The weakened live vaccine is given by the nose and is authorised from two years to young people under 18 years of age. In its opinion, the High Health Council will take a position on the target groups benefiting from these vaccinations. Madam Secretary, will you sensitize the general practitioners to inoculate the two additional target groups against seasonal flu? What will be the extra cost of a more general vaccination of this target group? There will also be a new opinion on the weakened quadrivalent vaccines or inactivated vaccines. When can we expect this advice? Will you continue to discuss this with the relevant Community ministers?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic236x.u49	Madam President, Mrs Somers, you know that prevention and primary prevention are primarily the responsibility of the Communities. In view of the fact that the Communities have observers in the College of the Supreme Health Council, I assume they will also transfer the information there. Representatives of the Communities are also taking part in the work of the Working Party on Vaccination. We expect the advice of the High Health Council that I have asked about the quadrivalent vaccine or inactivated vaccines by the beginning of next year. As for your question about the target groups, those target groups used to be the same. The price of the vaccine has also remained the same. So I do not think there will be a major shift, unless the vaccination rate would rise enormously, which would be a good thing, because the higher the vaccination rate, the better the coverage. Then what is called a herd immunity arises. The Food Agency carries out checks on individuals and their families working with live poultry and pigs. Those people must have certificates and evidence of vaccination in their homes, for everyone who is there. There will not be much increase there, because everyone is trying to be okay with it. In another target group, the elderly from 50 to 65 years old, to which I belong, this is almost shocking. Perhaps the vaccination rate can be increased, which would be a good thing. This will be discussed at the Inter-Ministerial Conference, with our fellow Members from the Communities, in the light of the fact that we will have the opinion of the High Health Council.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic236x.u50	The Minister will also report to us on the discussions at the October 27 Interdepartmental Conference.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic236x.u51	Madam Minister, at the end of August, a study was published at Cambridge University which compared dementia rates over the past 20 to 30 years in a number of European countries. The conclusions are, in fact, encouraging. Although the number of older people is increasing, the number of people suffering from dementia is barely increasing. In some regions the incidence even slightly decreased. The researchers blame stabilisation on a number of factors: better living conditions, better health care, changed lifestyle. The changed lifestyle includes, among other things, the reduction in the number of smokers and the increased fight against cardiovascular diseases over the past 20 years, which means that more people are being treated for high blood pressure and cholesterol. There is also attention to sports and diet. For these reasons, the forecasts would hopefully be surplus from 230 000 to 250 000 incidences by 2050. The number of patients with dementia to be expected is unclear. Firstly, do you have any indications that the incidence of dementia is stagnating in Belgium as well? Secondly, the study is encouraging. Do you already draw conclusions from the study? Will the adoption, for example, have an impact on the calculations of the ageing committee on the costs of social security in the coming years? Thirdly, the study states that the way of life has a huge impact on the stagnation of dementia. This conclusion confirms the view that in the future, in the case of chronic care, self-care is of the utmost importance. This involves both an adapted lifestyle and a medical remedy to a number of health problems. A good example is the fight against high blood pressure and high cholesterol. Will you include that determination in your policy? Will you consult with the relevant ministers of the Communities to focus even more on self-care, prevention and, in particular, on lifestyles?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic236x.u52	Mr Janssens, a number of studies, including those to which you refer, indeed show that there may be some kind of stagnation in a number of European countries. In any case, it can be seen that evolution may prove to be less acute than what was assumed until recently. Studies were carried out in our country at two important moments. In the study Epidemiology research on dementia, carried out in Antwerp in 1991, 150 000 elderly people with dementia were mentioned for our country. At that time, however, it was suspected that the real number was higher. In a recent study, Qualidem from 1999 to 2006, it is estimated that 9% of people over 65 years of age have dementia. According to KCE report 160 this would amount to 170 000 people in Belgium. We cannot at present make any informed statements about the possible consequences referred to in these foreign studies. Our country is not included in the studies. It is therefore premature to comment on the potential impact on social security expenditure linked to the study. In order to improve the epidemiological data available for chronically ill and elderly patients with dementia, an implementation plan of the BelRAI instrument is now being finalised. That care evaluation tool, which will be introduced nationally in consultation with the Communities and the Regions, will provide us with the necessary epidemiological data in addition to the development of an adapted care path for the chronically ill elderly. This is important for the policy, which can take this into account. The plan Chronic Sickness, presented together with the federated entities, also includes care for patients with dementia. The Regions and the Communities have developed their own dementia policies in recent years. In Wallonia, for example, there is the Action Alzheimer's Wallon and the Centre Alzheimer's and Maladies Apparantees. In Flanders, the Expertise Centre Dementie is active, and the dementia policy is updated. If the Regions and the Communities so wish, I will be happy to discuss this with them. Finally, prevention can reduce the risk of dementia, but not avoid it. In addition, up to 20 years may elapse before the patient, who has been exposed at middle age to risk factors, develops dementia. So the effects of today's insights will only become visible for a long time. Dementia is now also a theme at the European meetings under the Luxembourg Presidency. Interesting data has also come to light there. For example, some predictive behavioural characteristics are already shown, 14 years before dementia is diagnosed. That, too, needs to be tested for scientific evidence. It is good that dementia is now being addressed as one of the three most important issues at European meetings during the Luxembourg European Presidency.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic236x.u53	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. I will continue to follow the file with the greatest attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic236x.u54	Madam President, Madam Minister, a round question from the APB shows that a medicine is unavailable in our country three times a day or 1 200 times a year. Apparently, the problem arises both in ordinary pharmacies and in hospital pharmacy. It concerns both unavailability at the manufacturer's premises and situations where the manufacturer makes only a limited amount available to our country because in other countries he can make more money from the medicine. Unavailability may be very problematic for the treatment of the patient. Even cancer medicines may be unavailable, leading to the patient having to interrupt his treatment. You would have promised to deal with this problem. Do you have official figures on the unavailability of medicinal products that pose a risk to the health of the patient? Have you discussed this issue with the producers? What measures can be taken to improve availability? Given that the lack of availability is also due to the fact that producers sometimes prefer to sell medicines to other countries, is it not desirable to address this problem at European level and to seek a solution at European level?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic236x.u55	Madam President, Ms Somers, the unique hotline for temporary and final drug inaccessibility at the FAGG, which started on 1 January 2014, gives us the following figures on unavailables that may pose a problem for the treatment of patients: 15 unavailables in the course of 2014 and eight in the course of 2015. In 2014, 14 of these 15 cases were resolved by an application for derogation from the import of these medicines from abroad from the company concerned to the FAGG Advisory Committee. In 2015, seven out of eight cases were resolved in this way. The medicine for which no solution could be found was Inderal Retard Mitis, a beta-blocker, and Valtran, a painkiller in 2015. There are two aspects to consultation with the pharmaceutical industry. Firstly, there is, as mentioned above, in specific cases the Advisory Committee, where derogations can be granted for the introduction of these medicines from abroad at the request of the firm in question. Secondly, there is the task force FAGG-RIZIV with representatives of the sectors concerned, including pharmacists, distributors and health insurance funds. The task force is looking for sustainable solutions to this problem. Creating a unique hotline is one of his first achievements. That also allows us to know how many cases there are. This autumn they will also propose a number of concrete measures to seek solutions, which we will also try to take. It is indeed a European problem. There is also a task force there. The FAGG is represented in this. Here too, efforts are being made initially to improve information and communication on this issue. We have said that solutions must be sought, not only at European level but also in our country. We will prevent what we can. That's also in the pharmaceutical pact.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic236x.u56	Madam Minister, I think that this unique hotline is very important because it will allow us to follow up on this issue. We can then react quickly and find solutions. We will wait and see if further action is needed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic236x.u57	Madam President, if you agree, I suggest that you turn my questions Nos. 5985, 5986, 5987 and 6282 into written questions, rather than a reading exercise because they are requests for information and not political positions. [[Sentiment]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic236x.u58	Madam President, Minister, the experts of the Supreme Council of Health (SHC) have made public their conclusions on the strict conditions under which the detection of the demediated and decentralized AIDS virus could be extended, through rapid tests which, on the basis of a drop of blood, give an answer in a few minutes, which must, of course, be confirmed subsequently. In this regard, the experts of the CSS stress the importance of the necessary caution with regard to this method of testing while not opposing it. At a time when scientists around the world are calling for increased screening and early treatment, bearing in mind that in 2013 the record figure of 1,115 new infections was reached in Belgium and that almost one in two patients is diagnosed late, which reduces their chances of survival and increases the risk of new infections, this type of screening would increase the number of early screenings and thus better care for HIV patients. Minister, are you, like the experts of the CSS, in favour of the establishment of this de-mediated and decentralized HIV screening recommended by the World Health Organisation and the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control? If not, can you tell us why you are opposed to this type of screening and what is your preferred strategy to detect HIV infections earlier and more effectively?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic236x.u59	Mr Senesael, the HIV plan is part of the discussions with the Communities and the Regions within the Interministerial Conference. I would also remind you that the organization of decentralized and de-medicalized screening is not a federal jurisdiction but a matter for the federal entities. Before a decision can be taken on the matter, it is necessary to analyse the conditions under which a possible demediated screening could be carried out. This requires, in particular, the establishment of a consultation between the partners in the field and the competent authorities, as well as the consideration of the conclusions of the Order of Physicians and the Higher Council of Health. Opinion No 9224 of the Conseil Supérieur states in particular that the request of the then Minister, Mrs Onkelinx, is incompatible with the provisions of Royal Decree No 78 of 10 November 1967, which prohibits "decentralised and demediated testing". The Supreme Council therefore recommends that the competent authorities adapt the relevant legislation relating to the exercise of health care professions, including the Royal Decree in question. As a result, I have instructed my services to prepare such a legislative framework. It should be recalled, however, that a link to the doctor remains essential in this process in order to inform and orient the patient who would be detected positive. I take that very seriously. It's not about a brat. A brat can be treated and cured himself, without the intervention of a doctor. However, a seropositive person, let alone someone affected by the HIV virus, will not be able to heal without medical intervention. The High Health Council has therefore formulated the opinion very precisely and I take it very seriously. People with HIV virus and people with AIDS must be treated medically.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic236x.u60	Thank you, Minister, for your response and the instructions already provided to prepare the work. I understand the difference between treatment and early detection. My question was indeed about this earlier screening, which encourages appropriate treatment.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic236x.u61	We look forward to further action in this regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic236x.u62	Madam President, Minister, this question is somewhat similar to that of smoking earlier. In the tax shift the so-called health tax is implemented. In the meantime, we know that it will become a tax on sugary drinks. We cannot get away from the impression that the same thing is actually happening here, for which I am afraid of the smoke products, namely that the price is simply being increased without any thought being given to measures such as you have just mentioned. I do not necessarily want to talk about a plan. I believe that I am as pragmatic as you are. If good measures are taken, we would be particularly pleased. So, we have to note that we are talking about a tax shift again without the accompanying measures. A corrective tax on sugar drinks only makes sense if it is part of a comprehensive policy on disease prevention and health promotion. All nutritionists formally agree on this. We have to re-establish that this is absolutely not the case here. I would like to give an example from Denmark where a similar tax, the fat tax, was removed after a year because of total failure because the Danes crossed the border to store their delicacies there at a softer price. Everyone in Denmark subsequently agreed on the real cause of this failure, in particular that there had never been any support for consumers and the food industry, because that too seems to me to be extremely important for this suddenly imported fat tax. So I have a few questions. How will this health tax be introduced? What timing do you foresee? In what way are you going to put this into a broader policy vision? What cooperation with the Regions do you intend to engage in to launch prevention campaigns? Is there any cooperation? If so, what does it consist of? Will the food industry also be involved in your plans? If so, in what way?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic236x.u63	Madam President, Madam Minister, my question obviously resembles that of my colleague Mrs Jiroflée. I will therefore sum up very strongly the statement I made to you in writing. Reference is made, in the draft tax shift presented by the Government on 24 July, to the introduction of a so-called "health" tax on beverages containing sugar. The objectives are well known. Minister, can you give us more details about this tax, particularly with respect to its rate and how it applies? What sugar-containing drinks will be affected by this tax? Will drinks containing alternatives to sugar such as sweeteners also be covered? The application of this kind of tax in other countries has not always been successful; it has just been said, I am not going to recall. In Denmark, for example, this tax, which was introduced in 2011, has been abandoned. What is your view on this? Finally, some believe that, in parallel, measures should be taken to lower the price of fruit and vegetables to make them more accessible and to prevent consumers from sacrificing these healthy foods to their more expensive soda. What do you think? Are such initiatives envisaged?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic236x.u64	Madam President, Minister, I will not repeat the health tax. If we were to talk about about about 5 cents more per litre of soft drinks, the tax would not contribute to the discouragement of consumption, but only serve to feed the State Treasury. In the meantime, can you tell me exactly how much the tax will be? There are studies, including a Finnish study, that show that there are real opportunities to make healthier alternatives cheaper. That's how people get their support. That has a lot to do with prevention. Have you discussed this with your colleagues in the Länder? Denmark is not a good example, but Finland is a good example. Maybe we can watch that. Health economists say that the price should increase by at least 20% in order to bring about a change in behaviour. Let me now turn to the question of colours in candy, cakes and soft drinks. There would be a link between hyperactivity in children and colouring agents, especially the famous Southampton Six. Albert Heijn already decided to remove those dyes from his own brands. With your intended minimum price increase on sugary soft drinks or the health tax mentioned above, a very small signal was already given to the food industry to intervene in the area of sugars. It seems obvious to me to do so in parallel for colouring matters. Where are you on the announcement of sugar talks with the sector? Do you take the dyes with you in one go?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic236x.u65	Madam President, Madam Minister, I would like to put my questions very briefly. After all, the other questioners have already outlined the problem well. We also support the action taken by the government. As the questioners have already pointed out, we too want to place this in a broader context. We also want to examine how the link is being made in the context of health objectives. Reference was made to Denmark and Finland. The same arguments come back each time, to indicate the big difference. There is the fact that border shopping is done. I live in a border region and I remember how many years before the purchase of soft drinks and then of water, after all, there was a zero rate in France, which crossed the border. This is happening less nowadays, but border shopping is an effect that could reappear. There is also the fact of substitution, which has not yet been mentioned here. In doing so, the more expensive brands are again switched to the cheaper brands or the white products, which, of course, means that the same amount of sugar is consumed, but from a cheaper brand. There are already some effects and many references are made to Finland, but the study work is not yet ready and therefore the results are not yet available. We will therefore have to wait and see. Finland, however, sets the sugar problem in a broader context. Madam Minister, I have read Mr Vandeurzen's statement, in which he would like to show his willingness to work with you on an integrated policy in the context of nutrition and movement. My question is, therefore, how will the measures that you may take this week also fit in with a larger set of health objectives? Have you consulted with the regions?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic236x.u66	Madam President, Minister, I am pleased that not only the bad examples of Denmark, among others, but also successful examples such as Finland have been mentioned. Even in our neighbour France, such a sugar tax was introduced with great success. This shows that these countries understand that sugars are the major culprits in the epidemic of diabetes and obesity. We are pleased that our government is also aware of this and is committed to it. My questions follow on from those of previous speakers. There is a yield of 250 million a year. How many of these will return to your cabinet to take accompanying measures? What measures do you intend to take to implement the accompanying policy? How is cooperation with the Minister of Finance working on this tax going? What discussions have already taken place on this subject? Did you calculate how much consumption would fall? What tax will be levied per bottle or can?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic236x.u67	Madam President, you will not believe it, but the Council of Ministers will take a decision on this point on Friday. As I said, we see the sugar tax in a broader context. I have already said in my answers to other questions that we are currently working within the Public Health Office to adapt the food on the Belgian market by improving its nutritional value. It concerns both the added sugars, fats and salt, as well as the portions delivered to the consumer. The qualitative composition of the products should be improved by improving the quality of the carbohydrates and fats present and by increasing the fibre and micronutrients content. The Working Party on Energy Reduction of Public Health, in which representatives of the food industry and its sub-sectors, the wholesale distribution, the catering industry, consumers and scientific experts, is in consultation. Of course, this consultation takes time, but the intention is to secure a formal commitment on the part of the operators concerned. The dossier has also been discussed at European meetings. The Netherlands is also working on this. In the Netherlands there is a problem with food that, as it is called, is taken out of the wall, such as croquettes and frikadels. They want to make this a subject during the next Dutch Presidency of the European Union and are already engaged in intensive bilateral talks with the other countries. That is a good thing, because there is a European market. In the store shelves, the products of different countries are side by side. As far as the offer is concerned, there is not much we can do. We cannot ban the supply of less healthy products in our warehouses. An increase in VAT or excise duties on soft drinks is the subject of consultations. There are concrete slopes ahead, which we are discussing with the Treasury. The intention is to land there on Friday, which is acceptable to all parties in the government. Above all, we must ensure that the policy fits in with a general promotion of health. Mrs Dedry, I can say the following about the colouring matters. For different colours, stricter conditions of use have been in force since 1 June 2013. Those conditions are also in line with recent re-evaluations by the European Food Safety Authority, EFSA. These colours have been found to be safe for the consumer. The mandatory warning on the label is intended to inform the consumer so that the consumer can choose whether to take them or not. Mrs Jiroflée, to your recurring question about prevention campaigns, I have to say that I am not competent to do so. It is not a question of not wanting to carry out prevention campaigns, I do not have to do so. Your question as to what percentage of the revenue from a health tax will be returned to my department, I will take it to the negotiating table. I will mention in advance that you think it is a good thing to take accompanying measures. In any case, there will be a follow-up. We will not only have talks with the Flemish ministers Vandeurzen and Crevits. Mrs Crevits is involved in this because of her authority over the schools. We will try to make it a more general and prettier plan, also in consultation with the other colleagues from the Länder. However, first we must make progress with the discussions within the Public Health Office in the Working Party on Energy Reduction. I would also like to add that this is something that is constantly being done abroad. In Finland, for example, there are still many problems in this area. A health tax has never been introduced there before. Finland also has a mixed population, some of which follow the Russian diet. Finland has a very long border with Russia. In Denmark too, where there is a lot of cycling and a lot of movement, food does not always contribute to lowering cholesterol and so on. In Western Europe we are all sick in the same bed. We must therefore take measures which are more uniform in Europe. In the meantime, that does not stop us from doing what we can.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic236x.u68	Madam Minister, you may be surprised, but I do believe you when you say that there will be a number of measures on the government table on Friday. Alone, this is too late. This only proves that before the holiday it was only about raising taxes, and not at all about health, if not there was also talk about the option to make healthy foods cheaper. That, too, could have perfectly fit into such a package of measures. If you succeed in implementing a coherent set of measures, you will have my full support, but I do not see it happening for the time being. So I look forward to seeing what will come out of the bus on Friday. As far as prevention is concerned, I know very well, Madam Minister, that you are not competent, but admit that if you take such measures at federal level, which is to charge taxes on unhealthy foods, you are also the right person to try to coordinate with the regions in order to work together on prevention of unhealthy foods. I believe this is part of the task you have as the Federal Minister of Health. We're all looking forward to Friday.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic236x.u69	That making other food cheaper is not on the table, you know.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic236x.u70	Madam Chair, Minister, thank you for your answer. That said, in your answer, to say the least, you spoke of a working group with different components, of consultation. You even stated that there would be no change in VAT. But you have not given any information on the rates that will actually be applied, the modalities that will be specified, the products that will be affected. Anyway, we're still a little hungry. We therefore hope that after Friday we will get more relevant answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic236x.u71	Mr Senesael, as I said, the negotiations are still under way. I am therefore not in a position to inform you today of the implementation arrangements.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic236x.u72	Madam President, Minister, I have two brief reservations. You regularly refer to Europe. There is indeed a great deal of decision in Europe and we depend on it. In Europe, however, things are also very slow. It's very complex and there's a lot of lobbying. I believe that a health minister in Belgium can play a leading role. I call upon you to take on that role. Then perhaps Europe will follow. You often talk about voluntary support and consultation with the food industry and with everyone. Perhaps we should have the courage to come up with compulsory labelling and not leave everything to the food industry. After all, we see in other dossiers what this can lead to when the sector has to regulate itself.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic236x.u73	Labelling is also regulated at European level.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic236x.u74	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. You will hear that the expectations for Friday are very high. I think the right components are in there. We need to have a decision first, and then we need to discuss it further. I think that Friday is the time for you to link these measures to a larger whole within the framework of our health objectives and of a broader health plan. I understand very well that many of the powers and, therefore, the measures, especially in the field of prevention campaigns, fall within the competence of the regions. One aspect that we have not mentioned here today is the fact that increasing taxes on food often affects weaker target groups. Several studies show that. One of the important points in the Federal Poverty Plan was to do something about it. We need broad support and I hope that you will succeed on Friday.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic236x.u75	I find it scratching that several colleagues from parties that have been part of governments for years are now commenting and saying that it is all going very slowly, while the minister and this government dare to take such measures after a year. Madam Secretary, I wish you every success on Friday to get as much as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic236x.u76	Madam President, I would like to respond briefly. I've been hearing the song of "we weren't part of the majority" for a year. This is where taxes are levied without any action being taken on paper. We must now wait until Friday to link a measure to that. Is that developing a vision?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic236x.u77	I do not think it is possible at this stage to determine exactly what accompanying measures will be taken when the amounts are not yet known. I think it is important to first determine the means available to take accompanying measures.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic236x.u78	I think it is important to draw up a vision before we talk about measures.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic236x.u79	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic236x.u80	I'm gonna interrupt you two. Your assessment of the situation diverges. The principle of questions is such that they are not followed by an exchange.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic236x.u81	Madam Minister, in your policy paper last year, you set out a very interesting paragraph on your plan to work with health objectives. I have quoted that in my question, but will not read it under time pressure. Unless I have missed them, in practice I do not have the impression that there are many concrete health objectives already. Healthy nutrition could be or could be a health objective after Friday. Can you tell me when you will set specific health objectives with specific deadlines, for example on healthy diets? Will you also ensure that they match the current health objectives in Flanders, Wallonia and Brussels? Health taxes can also be part of this. Do you also have targets for my dada, the environmental health risks, as you promised last year in response to a parliamentary question from me?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic236x.u82	Mrs. Dedry, promise makes guilt! Within the Inter-Ministerial Conference on Health, there is an Inter-Kabinette Working Group on Health System-Health Goals, which will develop an approach to the formulation of health objectives. One of the key tasks will be to define the health objectives that one wants to work on during this legislature. Agreements should be made on the priority objectives which different governments intend to achieve in the course of this legislature, as well as on the process of setting national health objectives, which will be followed. On the basis of an in-depth analysis of the results of the successive health surveys we have from 1997, 2001, 2004, 2008 and 2013, the reports on the performance of the Belgian health system and, where appropriate, additional international comparisons, a consensus should be reached on the selection of health objectives for which priority should be given to working in this legislature. Everyone's powers, existing national or international plans and/or strategies will be taken into account. This will be done in consultation with the existing interadministrative working group Performance of the Belgian health system. A start has been made, but everything is done through the working groups of the Inter-Ministerial Conference. However, I have seen another result from these many working groups.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic236x.u83	Madam Secretary, I hope it can be done quickly. Perhaps you can give a good start when, after Friday, you set out a first, very concrete health objective on nutrition and everything that has to do with it, which has to be achieved by and certain time limits.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic236x.u84	We haven't heard from Mrs. Somers. If it does not arrive before the end of the meeting, its question No 6058 will become irrelevant. Question No 6066 by Mr Vercamer is transformed into a written question. The same applies to Question No 6073 by Mrs Cassart-Mailleux. Mr Clarinval asked for the postponement of his question No. 6078.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic236x.u85	Madam President, Madam Minister, the number of Belgians affected by sleep apnea continues to grow. Thus, according to INAMI figures, there was a 262% increase in cases between 2008 and 2014, representing a budget of over €61 million for social security. The increase in these diagnoses results in a growing demand for ventilation equipment (CPAP). For this reason, INAMI had already advocated last year, for budgetary reasons, to drastically reduce the number of treatments for sleep apnea by CPAP and had thus decided to modify the reimbursement of this treatment. In recent years, the daily rate has been reduced several times. It currently amounts to EUR 1.97 per day per patient and it would appear that if the number of patients increases further, INAMI could again reduce the daily rate. Minister, what is your view on this situation? Do you consider it necessary to reduce the amount of the daily package again? It is obviously necessary to meet, no doubt differently, the needs of these many patients. Are alternative measures envisaged in this regard?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic236x.u86	Mr Senesael, I can confirm that the number of sleep apnea patients treated with a CPAP device is increasing sharply every year. The recorded health insurance expenditures suggest that in 2008, on a current basis, an average of 25,000 patients were treated with a CPAP device. In 2014, the average number of patients treated on an annual basis had already increased to 67,000. However, this increase in the number of patients treated has led to a gradual decline in the price of the CPAP device over the years. For example, over the past 10 to 15 years, insurance intervention in CPAP treatment has also been reduced several times. The last price decrease was recorded on 1 September 2014. At that time, it was also included in the regulations that the number of patients across the country could only increase by 15% annually. This principle has been included in the regulation to prevent price reductions from leading to increases in consumption. This 15% per year corresponds to the increase in the number of CPAP patients observed in previous years. We cannot therefore say that the number of salaries reimbursed has been reduced. If the number of patients treated with CPAP in a given year were to increase by more than 15%, the regulation foresees a compensatory reduction in the current price to EUR 1.97 per patient per day. In 2014, the increase in the number of patients remained limited to just under 15%. As a result, no further price reductions have been applied to date. When, in 2014, the current price of EUR 1.97 was set and the annual increase in the number of patients was limited to 15%, it was clear that the current CPAP regulation should be assessed as a whole. This is one of the missions of the College of Medical Directors which has been set up with INAMI. The College consults on this issue with the various interested parties: doctors who make the diagnosis and prescribe a specific treatment, interested firms and hospital organizations. The following shall be examined in particular: - if the way in which the diagnosis is made with CPAP treatment, if any, is the best solution, including in terms of cost-effectiveness; - if the choice of treatment with CPAP or other treatments for sleep apnea is currently optimal; - what therapeutic compliance requirements can be placed on the patient and how best to follow this therapeutic compliance; - finally, – and this is not the least important – the College examines whether the current price per day for CPAP treatment is realistic, given the real cost it represents for the hospitals and firms concerned. In this regard, consideration should be given not only to the price of the equipment, but also to the time required to teach the patient to use his or her device properly and motivate him or her to do so, not to mention the time spent on maintenance and monitoring of therapeutic compliance. We also look at the reasons that have led to an increase in risk factors over the years. The risk factors for apnea are diverse. The most important are obesity and smoking. We could also start working on this factor and treat these patients with other measures rather than CPAP.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic236x.u87	Minister, thank you very much for your high-quality, accurate and structured response. You bring the requested and desired response elements. You understand the risks and I share your point of view. I simply draw your attention to the fact that these sleep apnea can have consequences that result in various insecurities, whether driving, using machines, working, etc. They must be able to continue to receive the necessary care. The price is obviously an important component of this. You noted it very well in your answer, since the College of Physicians analyses the subject matter and above all the reasons for this increase.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic236x.u88	Madam President, Madam Minister, in September, the Dutch Food Centre launched a campaign on so-called hidden sick people in the kitchen. The campaign came after a study of the Food Centre, according to the habits of the Dutch in the kitchen. This showed that many citizens have the wrong idea of how to handle food products in order to avoid spoiled and harmful food. For example, half the Dutch thought they could smell or see when food is no longer edible. That's not true, of course. In practice, it is not always the case that if one smells nothing or smells fresh as food, it is therefore also fresh and edible. The campaign tries to parse common errors in the kitchen, refrigerator and store. I have a few questions about this. Was a similar study carried out in our country? If so, what were the results? If not, do you intend to have such a study carried out on the habits of the Belgians? Are you considering taking action or campaigning in our country in consultation with your colleagues in the Communities on this matter?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic236x.u89	Madam President, Mr Yüksel, as you may know, the Scientific Institute for Public Health held a major food consumption survey in 2014. The results will be announced this autumn. This food consumption survey also includes a survey in which several questions were asked about handling and interpreting the shelf life data, hygiene in kitchen, the habit of washing hands, combating cross contamination and preserving food in itself. There are also several initiatives on sensitisation. Both the FPS Health, Food Chain Safety and Environment as well as the Federal Agency for the Safety of the Food Chain, which falls within the competence of my colleague from Agriculture, have released five keys to the WHO's food safety. These recommendations are broadly the same as those of the Dutch campaign to which you refer. I believe that they have also based themselves on these WTO directives.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic236x.u90	Furthermore, on the website of the FPS Food Chain Safety, the consumer finds a top ten of the most frequently made errors that cause food infection and poisoning. The communication of my services on the results of research projects, for example on the effect of baking meat and the presence of diseased bacteria, is usually well picked up in the media. There has also been a communication about checking the frying oil for domestic use. After all, in the fries stalls that control happens anyway. It is true that this work is never finished and there is still a need to sensitise, including by the Länder, for example at the level of education. Children can be taught that food can spoil and that not everything can be stored endlessly in a refrigerator. I think that student refrigerators in particular require some further research. After all, from my student days I know that some jars almost automatically started to move in the fridge and that was usually the time to throw those things away.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic236x.u91	Madam Minister, thank you for your reply and look forward to the results of the poll, which are expected in the autumn. I've been looking up a few things. There is often talk of figures on food poisoning. I have found that in our country there are currently no figures of deaths or other incidents due to food poisoning. That needs to be better and more mapped out. Indeed, we must also work on raising awareness, especially among young people, in order to avoid such matters. I will, of course, follow up the dossier further.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic236x.u92	Madam Minister, I had asked two questions of the same nature, both to you and to Minister Borsus, because in June, when I first raised the issue, I felt that there was ping-ponging. However, I am sure that you will inform me fully now. On 8 July, together with a number of colleagues, I denounced the increased use of antibiotics in livestock farming in Minister Borsus. You know that AMCRA, the knowledge centre for the use of antibiotics in livestock farming, aims to reduce the use of antibiotics in livestock farming by half by 2020. Your colleague said, among other things, that he considered the objectives of AMCRA to be important and that he, together with you and your colleague from the Economics, would study the possibility of imposing a total ban on price reductions for critical antibiotics, whether temporarily or not. Now the pharmaceutical company Bayer, after stopping a similar action in July, has again launched a campaign with discounts for critical antibiotic products for livestock farming. AMCRA finds that sad and feels that it is high time that it was removed. I have the following questions about that. Has Minister Borsus contacted you to discuss this? Has there been a meeting? If so, what are the results? Is there going to be a ban? Have you taken measures for public health regarding the use of antibiotics in livestock farming? If so, what are these measures? If not, are you still planning to take action? In my question to Minister Borsus, I added the question of whether there will be clear rules that will help to achieve the objectives of AMCRA.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic236x.u93	Madam Minister, newspaper headlines a few weeks ago mentioned the excessive use of antibiotics in pigs, following a doctoral thesis of 2010 on the use of antibiotics in pig farming. Preventive group treatments, according to the study, were then part of normal business operations. Five years ago, there were no guidelines for cautious antibiotic use, because AMCRA, the knowledge centre for antibiotic use and resistance in animals in Belgium, did not yet exist. In the meantime, it appears that this finding is no longer in line with reality. The veterinary use of antibiotics in our country has fallen by more than 12% in recent years. A positive evolution, which can be improved, of course, but this is not enough. The aim of AMCRA is to halve the use of antibiotics in veterinary medicine by 2020. Sensitisation campaigns have not missed their impact. Farmers are also becoming increasingly aware of the risk of antibiotic resistance. They are convinced that something urgently needs to be done. According to Belgian monitoring of the consumption of antibiotics in veterinary medicine collecting and analysing antibiotic consumption in animals, a clear decrease of 6.9 % in 2012 and 6.3 % in 2013 can be observed. In 2014, there was a slight increase of 1.1 %. The Federal Agency for Medicinal Products and Health Products is currently working on a national database, a web application and associated legislation allowing veterinarians to register the use of antibiotics per holding and species to identify large-scale users. For two years such a system has been in place in pig farming comparing and recording the use of antibiotics in the participating holdings. The agricultural organisations are asking for the early launch of a national data collection system by the FAGG in order to be able to pursue a reasoned antibiotic use. Madam Minister, what is the FAGG's position on the establishment of a national antibiotic data collection system? Do you think that the intended timing for the system to enter into force in early 2016 is feasible? Why is that? Why is that?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic236x.u94	I fully support the one health principle. That is to say, I also said this at the launch of last year's antibiotic distress campaign, that we do not see the use of antibiotics, antimicrobials in animals and humans separately. Reducing the use of antimicrobials in food-producing animals is an important objective, especially in the case of antibiotics that are also important in human medicines, the so-called critical antibiotics. Antibiotic use in livestock farming is a problem which my colleague, the Minister for Agriculture, is also concerned with. Together we support the sensitising work of AMCRA at vets and livestock farmers, among others, to which you refer. The services follow closely the objectives set by AMCRA, namely to halve antibiotic use by 2020 and to reduce the use of critically important antibiotics by 75%. For this purpose, the BelVetSAC report is financed annually, which identifies sales figures of veterinary antibiotics. Indeed, it is correct that in recent years the sector has been able to reduce the total use of antibiotics in livestock production by about 12% compared to 2011. However, I note with you that this decline did not continue in 2014 and that for some of the critically important resources there is even a significant increase. In addition to self-checking, additional measures are therefore needed to further reduce this curve. A priority instrument in this respect is indeed a centralised database at national level to map, on an individual basis, the delivery, administration or prescription of antibiotics per livestock holding and animal category and also per veterinarian. The FAGG works together with the BFSA on the data collection, the Sanitel-Med system. This will be operational in early 2016. It is clear that data per holding and per veterinarian make it possible to follow up and, if necessary, adjust them more closely. The FPS Public Health, Food Chain Safety and Environment works together with the FAGG and the BFSA and the policy cells of the Minister of Agriculture and myself to revise the Royal Decree of 23 May 2000 laying down special provisions on the acquisition, retention, prescription, supply and administration of medicinal products for animals by the veterinarian and on the possession and administration of medicinal products for animals by those responsible for the animals, in order to legally anchor an electronic registration there as well. Furthermore, the fee for registration holders for the sale of veterinary antibiotics, applicable from 1 July 2014, should increase the cost of these products compared to vaccinations and biosecurity measures. Its proceeds are invested in projects that share the objectives of our antibiotic policy, such as the development of the Sanitel-Med database, the operation of AMCRA or the publication of the BelVetSAC reports. Finally, I responded to the problem of the bargains for critical antibiotics, on which Bayer stated that he would not do so. This problem must indeed be addressed at European level. I see Bayer's doing it again a few months later. Both the Minister for Agriculture and myself are closely following the preparation of the EU regulation on veterinary medicines. Once this framework is known, we can assess whether an additional Belgian initiative by the European Commission and the other Member States will still be appropriate.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic236x.u95	Madam Minister, Minister Borsus had already told us about the decentralised databases. We were already aware of the revision of the Royal Decree. You are now waiting for the European regulation to take action. However, I do not receive a specific answer to my questions. I do not blame you at all, but I do feel that Minister Borsus promised in July things that have not happened in the meantime. In fact, he would examine very concretely whether rules could be introduced in the short term to achieve these objectives and whether there was any possibility of prohibiting them. I can only conclude that it seems that Minister Borsus has not done much work on this matter in the meantime. We shall therefore have to question him again.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic236x.u96	Thank you, Madam Secretary. I note that this system of the FAGG will enter into force in early 2016. I am sure that you will only get cooperation from Agriculture.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic236x.u97	Madam Minister, in June I asked you a question about the report in which the KCE recommends investing in independent clinical studies for more efficient care. You then gave a very detailed answer on unregistered medicines for serious or fatal diseases, which could be recognised more quickly if there is no therapeutic alternative to them. In your future pact with the pharmaceutical industry, you have emphasised the faster access to innovative medicines that have not yet been registered. I would therefore like to draw your attention to the clinical studies carried out by the KCE and not by the pharmaceutical industry, but which have a great social interest. In the United Kingdom and the Netherlands, such programmes have been using public funds for many years, with excellent results. Why can't we do that or not yet? In the media, you have promised to include the recommendations of the KCE report in your future pact. However, I only find a few small points of this. However, it is not clear to me whether public funding for clinical studies of no commercial interest is included in your future pact or not.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic236x.u98	Then you haven't read it in full.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic236x.u99	I might have missed it. I come to my final question. You said the data would be published on the platform transparent.be, but I haven't seen anything online yet. My question dates back to 9/11. Maybe the data is online by now? Will these data be available soon or will they be available and have I not seen them yet?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic236x.u100	Ms. Dedry, the importance of publicly funded clinical studies was included in the recent KCE Report No. 246 of June 2015 recognised. Indeed, such studies are not yet funded by the public authorities in our country. The aim is first to create the conditions for quality research so that we can be sure that we can collect valuable results and information. Once the structure and procedures are in place that allow the evaluation and selection of the proposals and validation of the results, such studies can also be organised in our country. In 2016, a working group chaired by the KCE and in cooperation with the RIZIV, the FAGG and the Public Health Office will define the working methods. The publication of the results of clinical trials is required by Regulation 536/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 April 2014 on clinical trials on medicinal products for human use and repealing Directive 2001/20. A European database with an EU portal will be established to collect and centralise all data from studies. That EU portal is expected in the course of 2017. As described in the future Pact, we will try to make it as user-friendly as possible for Belgian users. Conflicts of interest will also be made public. I invite you to look at the other provisions for the clinical trials, which are an important chapter of the pharmaceutical pact. Madam President, I propose that we return to this point in the presentation of the Pact.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic236x.u101	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answers. Do I understand correctly that it is about 2017?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic236x.u102	The European database must be available by that date.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic236x.u103	Madam Secretary, new medicines are regularly ready to combat certain cancers. Those cancer medicines are often aimed at one group of patients and are sometimes very expensive for that reason. This increasingly personalized medicine evolves very quickly, while the government budget for its payments is shrinking. This was also confirmed by a recent study by Vlerick. Madam Secretary, I have the following questions. Firstly, how will you try to make these expensive medicines accessible to everyone? Secondly, will some refunds have to be reduced in the future for the benefit of new, personalised medicines? Thirdly, in addition to these expensive cancer medicines, there are also promising studies on cheaper cancer medicines, and that is very important. I am thinking, for example, of the proven usefulness of aspirin against colon cancer, of course in combination with other medications. Will you also support those cheaper new medicines, even though they have no commercial value for the pharmaceutical industry, but are scientifically proven social value for patients? Finally, the researchers of the Vlerick study advocate greater cooperation between the Committee for the Meeting of Medicinal Products and the Technical Medical Council. Do you agree and will you take action on this?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic236x.u104	Mrs. Dedry, here too, Vlerick Healthcare Management's interesting report has received our attention. I would therefore like to refer to the future pact concluded with the pharmaceutical industry. This future pact provides for greater access for patients to vital medicines. The medicines must be as effective as possible and in Belgium we must continue to have access to the most innovative therapies as soon as possible. This requires an innovative pharmaceutical industry that can continue to invest in research and development, in safety and in unmedical need, unrequited medical needs. The development of potential niche medicines and biomarkers is indeed at a price. These developments require us to consider new financing and reimbursement vehicles. In order to get innovative and often life-saving medicines that have shown their effectiveness to the patients, I will therefore free up space in my budget. The solidarity of our system must be there for any patient. Technological progress is undoubtedly spectacular. Recent breakthroughs in ATMP (advanced therapy medicinal products) and cell therapy and the potential of nano- and biotechnology open the door to diagnostic and therapeutic purposes that were unthinkable a few years ago. There is a lot of talk about personalized medicine that increases the support for therapies of very rare diseases. That is good, because with the possibilities of genotyping some say that all diseases will be de facto very rare because of individualizing the treatments. In addition, it is also examined whether the simultaneous reimbursement of predictive tests can be achieved prior to a medical treatment. We are also investigating whether the prescription of certain complex and expensive medicines can be reserved for certain centres of expertise for diagnosis and treatment. It will establish a framework for defining and recognising these centres of expertise, where necessary in consultation with the Communities. Then we also think of medicines for dementia. I am also examining the possibility of exempting cheap or patent cancer medicines from prior authorisation for reimbursement by the health insurance fund. However, a solution will be sought for the monitoring and monitoring of the use of these non-innocent medicines in order to ensure continued medically sound and rational use. The future pact does indeed release resources so that they can be applied at different levels. Competition between different companies must play a role in order to obtain acceptable financial costs for health insurance. I note that, for example, several firms are doing innovative research within the same class of medicines. Contract negotiations under Article 81 are an appropriate means of ensuring competition between companies. What is more, these contract negotiations must remain based on the evidention and added value that each medicinal product offers. We can't allow any deviation on this. The decision on the reimbursement of a proprietary medicinal product and therefore cheaper cancer medicinal products is based on the Commission's proposal on medicinal products to be met, in which experts from the various university institutions, representatives of the insurance institutions and representatives of the professional organizations of doctors and pharmacists are present, whose task is to examine in detail the refund dossiers requested by the firm. For the purpose of determining the methods of reimbursement for a proprietary medicinal product, the CTG will base itself primarily on the officially recognised indications, where the efficacy and safety of the medicinal product were extensively studied. However, I am particularly attentive with the Commission and continue to research new therapies, including old molecules, which can add value to patients, health insurance and the Communities. The promotion of clinical trials remains one of my priorities.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic236x.u105	Thank you for this comprehensive answer. I'm sure this will be continued.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic236x.u106	Madam President, Minister, everyone knows the stories and the latest campaign on people who need a suitable stem cell donor for their healing. Finding such a donor is not easy, especially if one cannot find it within the family, because then the chance to find a suitable donor is only 1 in 50 000. There have been several actions in the past and the action is now in progress. Of course, for these patients, that donor is vital. The best chance to find a suitable donor for the patient is an extensive stem cell registry. In other words, it is important that as many people as possible want and can register as potential donors. However, many of these spontaneous actions and campaigns now show that the Red Cross actually gets into a bit of trouble if there is too much influx. However, in addition to the blood collection, they are also responsible for stem cell collection. The organisation does not seem to have sufficient means of working for this purpose. Of course, that is very frustrating for the patient, the donor and every person involved. Madam Secretary, I have a number of questions for you. Today, the maximum age for registering as a donor is apparently set at 40 years. Up to the age of 60, one can actually donate. Can you explain to me why these age limits were chosen exactly? Are they still up-to-date or do you think they might be subject to revision? The Red Cross also receives funds from the government to provide for collection of stem cells, among other things. Are they sufficient in view of the signals we are receiving? What do you personally consider to be possible to increase the registration capacity and consequently the number of registered donors? How does international cooperation work in this area? Do you see any room for improvement there? If so, which one? As I said, apparently people who start actions to help someone are sometimes urged by the Red Cross to stop these actions because they cannot cope with the influx of registrations. Do you consider these actions to be a good thing? It is, of course, a campaign aimed at the public and, in itself, the question is whether these actions can contribute to an increase in the number of donors.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic236x.u107	Madam President, Mrs Van Peel, the age of registering someone as a candidate donor of blood-forming stem cells and the age to donate effectively have been determined by experts in this field in standards for donation and transplantation, which are regularly updated. The age of 60 years to donate is applied internationally and has to do with the safety of the donor. The age to register someone is 40 years and therefore 20 years younger, so that registered donors are available for a long period of time for possible donation, which is necessary, because the chance of effective donation is low and therefore the typing is expensive. About 73 000 prospective donors have now been registered in our country. With that number, Belgium has a very high number of candidates compared to other countries of the European Union. However, targeted sensitising actions may be useful to reach prospective donors of population groups from less represented ethnic groups, thus increasing the chances for patients of these populations. The information we have through the Red Cross is correct. Certain groups in our population are indeed hugely represented, while other ethnic groups are less represented, which is why there is a certain deficit there. In Bone Marrow Donors Worldwide's worldwide file, around 26 million candidate donors are known. There is international solidarity in this area. All prospective donors, including Belgian donors, are available for a donation, if somewhere in the world a patient is born who can be helped with his or her blood-forming stem cells. Therefore, all transplant centres in Belgium that carry out transplants with blood-forming stem cells from unrelated donors have access to that stock. This means that if that global stock of more than 26 million donors is not found to be a suitable donor, the chances of finding a suitable donor would be very low to almost non-existent, thanks to an action for a particular patient. In addition, there is a risk that donors reporting under such an action may have the impression that they are making themselves available to that one patient. It can be seen that they may then refuse later when they are contacted for another patient. The Red Cross therefore does not encourage these spontaneous actions. It's communicated on that. Initiators and patients should first contact the treating doctors about the possibility of transplantation. In any case, if the indication was given, family potential donors should initially be screened before considering a procedure of matched unrelated transplant. The contacts with the donor banks are carried out through the Belgian Register for bone marrow donors of the Red Cross, the Marrow Donor Program Belgium Registry. If patients require detailed information on the search for a suitable donor, they may receive it through their treating physician, who should only contact the bone marrow donor registry. We need to understand the emotion of people who are on a transplant waiting list or who are looking for a suitable donor and then take a chance on Facebook. Each of us might do the same, but the chances of results are very low, and the chances of these donors dropping out are very high. Nevertheless, I understand the emotion, which is very important in that. I have also replied several times to questions about the exclusion of homosexual men from blood donation and, by extension, from bone marrow donation. A scientific working group was set up at the FPS Public Health, which, together with the experts of the Supreme Health Council, is working on this. It is necessary to effectively question whether the questionnaire to be screened for possible risks of communicable diseases, in this case sexually transmitted diseases, is still sufficiently proportionate to the relevant risk derivatives. In this group, which is now excluded, there could still be a large number of donors.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic236x.u108	Madam Secretary, in relation to the latter, you have broad support for this revision. I also follow you in terms of personal actions and the risk of finding donors who think they are going to help a particular person and react more emotionally without giving sufficient thought to what they are actually doing, but who withdraw as soon as it becomes apparent that they will only appear on a list and will once be donors to an anonymous person. I fully understand that. So it seems to me right that a call to find more donors should be coordinated rather from the government or by the Red Cross. What I find strange in the discussion about these donors is the following. In blood donors, there is a demand for as many donors as possible and for everyone who stands at the door of the Red Cross and is eligible under current regulations, and this is not the case for these donors. You gave the figure of 26 million at international level. That may sound a lot, but actually that's not that much. When it comes to the one person who does not find a suitable match between those 26 million others, it is true that it is very difficult for that one person here in Belgium to find someone who matches. However, if we can increase the number of donors in Belgium, it will have an effect. I think it's a strange story that the Red Cross seems to be in conflict with organisational and/or financial difficulties to hire additional donors. If that is the reason, that would be a pity, because that cannot be the intention, of course, apart from the other things you have mentioned.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic236x.u109	They also do enlargement, but they say that they now need donors who are in other ethnic groups in our population. They seek to raise awareness and recruit. For me, however, the more donors we register ourselves, the better. Only we are the better students of the class, because compared to Europe and the rest of the world we notice that we have registered relatively many donors. However, they see that they are in deficit in certain groups.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic236x.u110	Then it is not correct that they would really refuse donors because they are unable financially to accept them. That's actually what comes back a little bit. I can see you nodding.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic236x.u111	If you have read the press release correctly, you have noticed that it was about, for example, 3 000 people, many of whom are related to each other in a call. They will probably not find anyone who can act as a donor for the person himself or for someone else. A lot of money from the budget will then be collected without result. That's all they said. They have said that they prefer to call themselves. You also know that when such a situation occurs, everyone in the family is screened and investigated, but that is a limited number of people. They say that there is little chance that if one offers thousands at a time, the donor will be in this smaller group of 3 000. That was the only reasoning they made.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic236x.u112	Following the recent decision of the French government to vaccinate against rotavirus, you asked the Supreme Health Council to draw up an opinion. In July, the Council also issued that opinion, albeit only in French. It is not the first time that an opinion is made available only in one of the two national languages on the website. Madam Minister, for what reasons was that opinion only made available in French? Is it not advisable that the advice of the High Health Council should be easily accessible by everyone and thus made available in the various national languages? Shouldn't the Supreme Health Council also comply with language legislation?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic236x.u113	Mrs Van Peel, this was an urgent opinion and that is why the High Health Council did not wait for a translation. The opinion was requested in response to the measures promulgated in France and therefore the first language of the opinion was chosen for French. Meanwhile, the translation is finished and the advice, hopefully to your great satisfaction, is in neat Dutch on the council's website. It is, of course, appropriate to have the advice of the High Health Council available in the various national languages. Certainly, the High Health Council must also respect language legislation. The Supreme Health Council shall endeavour to do so as best as possible, but where appropriate the opinion shall be given with delay for translation. The Supreme Health Council no longer has the means to translate all advice into Dutch or French. The same applies to translations into German or English. The High Health Council makes choices in this respect and delivers opinions in one language or only translates the introduction and conclusions of an opinion, while the argument may be drawn in another language. In case time becomes available later or if there is a budget to deploy external or internal translators, an attempt is made to translate the advice as a whole, taking into account the target audience. So much for the communication from the High Health Council, which, as you can see, has to work with limited resources.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic236x.u114	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. I'll make sure that translation is on the website. I don't think it's gonna hurt to keep the High Health Council alert about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic236x.u115	Madam Minister, there was a separate committee meeting on this, but a few things were mentioned about which I would like to ask a follow-up question. In early August, the media reported that the first test phase of a vaccine against Ebola achieved a very positive result and turned out to be 100 % percent effective. About 4000 subjects were vaccinated during the test phase and subsequently came into close contact with the virus but did not become ill. That seems to be good news, but recently there were also media reports about new outbreaks of contamination. Madam Secretary, it has been almost a year since Dr. Erika Vlieghe was appointed Ebola Coordinator. The committee was given a comprehensive explanation, but the exchange of views also announced that on 30 September a national conference would follow which would examine the lessons to be drawn in order to better prepare for future crises. That is why I would have liked to have answered the following questions, Madam Minister. How is the study on the vaccine assessed by our country today? With regard to the national conference on 30 September, I also have a few questions. What were the points of interest raised during that conference? What lessons can we draw from monitoring such situations quickly and smoothly in the future? How do you work on a general plan of action in the event of major crises? What's the status? Which actors are involved?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic236x.u116	Ms Van Peel, the first analysis of the clinical study Ebola, ça suffit, or Ebola, which is sufficient, was published in the international magazine The Lancet in July 2015 and also on the World Health Organisation website. The results suggest that the experimental vaccine against Ebola, Merck's RVSV-ZEBOV, can protect Immunised Persons. To date, the vaccine has proved effective for all vaccinees, but the study continues, to collect more data and to determine the extent of the protection, as well as to determine how quickly the protection occurs after vaccination. Belgium received three vials of this vaccine from the company in 2015 for possible emergency treatment at the high risk exposure of health workers. So the vaccine is in our possession. We haven't needed it yet. There have been suspicious cases, one of which turned out to be malaria and the other another infection. We haven't had to use it yet, but if we have to use it, it's there. The Ebola, Lessons Learned conference invited experts from the Belgian institutions involved in national preparations at the various levels. The main themes addressed were coordination, general communication, protection of national gateways, especially ports, airports and stations, and concrete policy in cases in and outside healthcare institutions. The interactive sessions went constructively. The following generic comments were made. There is overall satisfaction with the work done over the past few months, there is a need to maintain and maintain the procedures set up, and to continue to train staff who may have to deal with a patient. There is also a need for resources and male or female strength to do this. In addition, there is a need for further work on hospital capacity and a clear national structure and support for dealing with future epidemics, which is called a generic plan of action. A full report of the findings of this conference will be prepared and made available to all interested parties. On the basis of past experience and the conclusions of last week's conference, we are currently working on the drafting of a generic national plan for the management of sanitary crises. This project is entrusted to the Risk Management Group, the body that groups the administrative managers for the federal government, Regions and Communities. These are responsible for managing sanitary crises. The Risk Management Group has already identified a number of modules that will form part of this plan: the generic structure of crisis management in Belgium, the procedure for detecting and identifying cases, the management of the strategic stocks material needed to protect itself (gloves, masks,...), communication. The drafting of these modules was entrusted to a number of working groups led by members of this Risk Management Group. They are composed of the administrative and scientific experts, some of whom have also contributed to the drafting of the Ebola procedures. I opened that conference. The three working groups then started work. Around 16:00 they formulated their conclusions. It is now intended to make a major report on this subject. In the meantime, training and training must be continued. Existing procedures shall be evaluated after each case. The question then arises as to whether action was taken quickly enough, whether people knew quickly enough what exactly it was about and so on. We are continuing to do so. However, cases continue to occur. Meanwhile, the investigation also continues into how Ebola can be transferred. You know that it has been discovered that the last infections and relapses were partly due to the longevity of the virus in semen. More than three months after the patient was cured, active ebola virus was found in the sperm of the patient. This explains why every now and then the virus flares up in West Africa. We have seen the latest figures. It hasn't disappeared there yet. So I think it is right that we should go further along the path of vaccination. How we're gonna organize it there is another pair of sleeves. We certainly need to go further on that slope, if only to vaccinate our health workers here. If there is a good vaccine, we can protect them already. That would also be a step forward.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic236x.u117	Indeed, it would be quite a step if we could vaccinate our health workers there or an infected patient here. Then we can be sure that this threat is not going to happen. I think it is very good that there will be a generic national plan. Learning from this crisis for the future is all we can do right now. Let us hope that next time, also internationally, we will be able to react even faster and better. I hope that this crisis will come under control. We will have to come back to that in this committee, because, as you say, that will not be until tomorrow.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic236x.u118	Mrs. Detiège is absent.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic236x.u119	Madam Secretary, in June you signed a royal decree authorising the use of cannabis-based medicines, provided that proof of the need is provided. At present, this is only about the use of the mouth spray Sativex. At the end of August I read that an Australian company in Europe started selling so-called cannabis pills, which by using a special type of cannabis plant would only contain CBD and no THC. Through the website all Europeans can order the medicine, as read. Madam Secretary, I have the following questions. What is your opinion on these pills? Can these be legally introduced and used? Do you think it is appropriate to allow the import and use of these pills? What is the attitude of the FAGG towards these pills? Is there any evidence that they can actually help? You will agree with me that we need to keep an eye on which way this is going.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic236x.u120	Madam Minister, I will skip the introduction as it is the same as my colleague. I have about the same questions, especially because the price difference is very large and we are faced here with a price tag of EUR 650 for MS patients among others. In the Netherlands they can be bought much cheaper and now there is the Australian story. The advantage is that the pills do not contain the addictive substance THC. Madam Minister, I have the following questions which are in line with Mr Van Peel's questions. What are we gonna do with that? Do you think this is coherent? Why is the cannabis spray so expensive in Belgium? Is it normal to buy it abroad and is it equally good? We haven't heard more about your medical cannabis plan. Are you still working on that? Have you taken any further steps in this regard?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic236x.u121	Colleagues Van Peel and Dedry, as regards medicinal products based on cannabis extracts, have so far only been granted a marketing authorisation in Belgium for Sativex. This medicinal product is also currently subject to the reimbursement procedure. In the event of a favourable outcome, only the MS patient who fulfils the refund conditions will pay only the brake fee. As far as foreign medicines are concerned, there is first of all the need for them to be licensed in the country concerned. In addition, they can only be legally introduced by a doctor's certificate and by a Belgian pharmacist, i.e. never by a patient himself. When it comes to a preparation that was not authorised as a medicinal product for the Australian market, we may have to deal with an illegal substance whose quality cannot be guaranteed. Accordingly, the use of such medicinal products entails risks to the health of the patient and their purchase or importation is not legal in any way. Non-compliant medicines traded on the Internet and imported by patients themselves are routinely seized during checks carried out by our inspectors and inspectors together with bpost and customs. In 2014, approximately 4,000 mail shipments containing illicit drugs were seized. It was not all cannabis, of course, but there is a certain tendency in terms of medicines. Imports of these substances constitute an infringement of medicinal products legislation and the patient is therefore at risk of a fine that is effectively applied on repeated infringements. The RB, which makes it possible to deliver authorised medicinal products based on cannabis extracts, was published on 25 June 2015 and may also allow for extension to other approved forms that must comply with all requirements. However, the Committee considered that, pending the further development of an appropriate framework for the delivery of medicinal cannabis magistral preparations and/or official cannabis-based preparations, it was best to prevent them. The opinion of a working group within this committee, which was a note................................................................................................................................................................................................. So they think safety is about everything.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic236x.u122	Madam Minister, our introduction may have been the same, but I am not entirely in line with my Green colleague on this dossier, but hopefully I am still in line with you. I understand that you are making it very clear that initiatives such as the cannabis pills are in illegality and will remain there at the moment. As far as the medical use of cannabis is concerned, we choose evidence based medicine, a line that we draw very clearly and which remains as it is. I fully follow you in that analysis. Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic236x.u123	Mrs Van Peel, you will be surprised, but I do not advocate unsafe and non-evidence-based medicine, even if it is cannabis. However, I do not think that the patient should be endorsed. These are people in need looking for a solution. I hear about fines here, and I am actually asking for the patient who is hopelessly looking to help and frame. Let us create a framework that does not allow this to happen, but rather to target this patient. Furthermore, I am of course in favour of safety and evidence-based medicine in this context.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic236x.u124	Madam Minister, on 1 August last I read in De Tijd the following title: 'Keep control of the costs for your pills'. The article dealt with the pact you have reached with the pharmaceutical sector to reduce the cost of certain medications. After all, not only the government, but also many patients have to spend a lot of money on medication every year. The article also provided some tips on how patients can reduce the cost of medication for themselves and for the government, namely by handling their pill consumption efficiently and wisely. However, this economical and sensible handling of medication is not always encouraged. After all, those who buy medication are usually forced to buy a much larger quantity than they actually need. This not only means a higher expenditure than necessary, it also entails some dangers. I am thinking of patients who are taking wrong medication, because they still have a supply at home or patients who are taking expired medication, in order to avoid new expenses. It takes little effort to collect testimonies from people whose closet is bulging out of the decayed medication and from patients who do not visit the doctor because they do not want to pay for a prescription of medicines that are already in their closet. The Dutch system differs from ours in this respect. There, medicines can be purchased in a specified, prescribed amount. This not only reduces the cost, it also avoids improper use of medication. In this way, the doctor and the pharmacist can better assess and monitor the medication use of a patient. Madam Secretary, what do you think of the Dutch system, whereby medication can be purchased in the prescribed amount? Is it not in the interests of the patient and of health care in general to change our current system in that sense? Wouldn't that mean huge savings, both for the patients and for the government?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic236x.u125	Madam Minister, my question is on the same subject, but it has a slightly different bearing. Since 1 April, pharmacists supplying rest and nursing homes have to charge per unit. That measure applies to medicinal products reimbursed by the sickness insurance scheme and delivered to a public pharmacy. In order to avoid software problems and take the necessary transitional measures, you have postponed the measure until 1 September. That happened in consultation with the pharmacists. On the ground, however, I get signals that there are still a lot of problems. The software is available, but due to the planning of the IT suppliers some pharmacies still do not have the system. Moreover, some of them have technical problems. I have here the September report from some pharmacies on the subject. I myself have experienced how a certain pharmacist was confronted with system interruptions and long waiting times of 10 to 15 minutes to log in to MyCareNet. I understand that one has to start at a certain point and set a timetable, but the RIZIV has warned the pharmacies in writing that from 1 September we have to work by charging and that otherwise the pharmacy cannot count on reimbursement. So there are a lot of concerns, Madam Secretary. So I ask you, in a constructive atmosphere, whether you are aware of the problems and how you deal with the billing? Is there possible some kind of transitional or grace period until everything is resolved, so that everyone is with the story?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic236x.u126	The prescriber is already legally obliged to express on the prescription the duration of therapy of a medical treatment in weeks and/or days. Pharmacists may deliver medicinal products per unit, so-called individual medication preparation or IMD, or fractionated, e.g. per blister. On the other hand, the rate per share per unit of medicinal products delivered by the official pharmacist is currently limited to the medicines with an oral or solid form delivered to RVT and ROB residents. I would like to make it clear that at present only unit pricing and not unit delivery of medicinal products, the so-called individual medication preparation, is compulsory. The measure is a first step to encourage individual medication preparation, which indeed offers benefits in terms of rational use of medicinal products and public health. An extension of the scope or generalisation of individual medication preparation or an obligation can only be considered after an evaluation of the outcome of that measure, again in consultation with all relevant actors in the field. Mrs Van Peel, your question was added afterwards. Mrs Muylle, if there is one dossier on which the cabinet has already had a great deal of work, it is the dossier of unit pricing. That is why I extended the transitional period. The design was approved and in progress, but in fact nothing had happened for a very long time. So there are indeed still pharmacies that have waited or where the Internet is not fast enough or where MyCareNet problems are emerging, which we cannot really do, but which are always discussed and evaluated with them. That is why we are constantly adjusting to problems that are being identified. Someone in my cabinet is almost constantly trying to fix those problems. One day, however, the step must be taken to implement this. The measure had also been announced for a long time. Moreover, these software problems have also arisen under the third-payer scheme. We are now more in dialogue with the software producers. We also intend that this is one of the reasons why they are sometimes too late to involve them earlier and more closely in the consultations on such measures. They did not see a measure until that measure had been and had been approved. However, many months have gone by. If we can involve producers in the process earlier, it will also be better on the ground. After all, they will have more time and will be able to present their software everywhere. Our country counts most pharmacies. So they have a lot of work to do with us. However, we want to involve them more quickly and more closely in the process, so that the software houses also have fewer problems to deal with in order to reach their target audience.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic236x.u127	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. I am glad to hear that it is a first step in what can eventually become the Dutch model, because I see a lot of advantages in that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic236x.u128	Madam Secretary, I'd like to apologize first. My question was indeed tabled on 17 September, but there was probably a problem with putting the question on the agenda. We had to contact the secretariat yesterday because the question had not been added to the agenda. That only happened yesterday. So you probably did not receive my questions until late, but they were submitted on 17 September.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic236x.u129	The official date of submission of the question is 5 October at 9 a.m. 36. So something went wrong there.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic236x.u130	Madam Minister, I think you are right to refer to the problem that has been going on for a long time. I am aware of the discussions that have taken place not only on software and technical problems, but also on the pricing and reimbursement they would receive. They also asked for an evaluation. I'm glad you're involving them further. I hope that the technical problems will be resolved quickly. I think you are right to point out the responsibility of the pharmacists themselves. I just ask that we also look with them at how the problems of invoicing and RIZIV can be solved in the coming weeks. I hope, together with you, that this will be done as quickly as possible for everyone, so that they can start in a good way.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic236x.u131	The pharmacists will join us at the table. The pharmacists themselves will also give lessons on how to work with unit tarification. The professional organisations are fully involved.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic236x.u132	Madam President, Minister, I have spoken to you on this subject a number of times during the last parliamentary year, and I shall come back to it again. In your answer to my last question, you indicated that the FAGG is working on a report on the dangers of nitrous oxide. That report would be ready by the summer. On 3 September, just after the summer holidays, De Standaard again talked about worrying use of nitrous oxide by Hasseltse youngsters. In other words, there is still a problem. Can you give me the state of play and any findings from this report? What actions will you take on the basis of this report?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic236x.u133	Madam President, Mrs Hufkens, the use of nitrous oxide is, of course, completely unwelcome in a recreational setting. Laugh gas is sometimes used in a controlled medical setting and then there is no problem. Indeed, the Federal Agency for Medicinal Products and Health Products was asked to identify this issue, to carry out a risk analysis and to propose remedial actions. An inter-administrative working group is set up with experts from the FAGG, the General Drugs Cell and the Scientific Institute for Health. A survey is also planned on the distribution of nitrous oxide in our country to the medical and food sectors. Of course, it is not excluded that there is secondary distribution from these last two sectors. Perhaps this is not entirely verifiable either. That is why we have asked for this to be mapped out. This study is still in its early stages and I cannot therefore give you any further details on the subject. If there is, however, I will not fail to report you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic236x.u134	Madam Secretary, I look forward to further details.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic236x.u135	Madam Secretary, you are in the process of reviewing the law governing mental health professions, which regulates, inter alia, the provisions relating to the profession of psychotherapist, clinical psychologist and clinical orthopedagogic. The creation of a federal council for psychotherapy is also included in that legislation. That law will enter into force on 1 September 2016. Madam Minister, I would like to ask you the following questions. Where do you stand on the implementation of this legislation? What's its status? Is an adaptation of that legislation on the agenda and, if so, what adjustments would it be?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic236x.u136	Madam Minister, on July 14, in response to parliamentary questions, you told us that the consultations between your office and the administration, on the one hand, and all the stakeholders, on the other hand, were under way in order to move towards the installation of clinical psychology and orthopedagogy boards, in the analysis and amendments of the Psychotherapists Act in connection with Royal Decree 78. You were going to keep us informed. We agreed to hold a committee on this matter on 10 November. Since almost two months will have elapsed between the tabling of my question on 18 September and 10 November, I would nevertheless like to ask you a few questions, the first being about timing. When you introduce yourself on November 10, will your 2014 bill reform be completed or will our committee meeting participate in the consultation process to organize further work? Do you still have contacts, and are there any exchanges with the various players in psychotherapy? I think the last meetings were held last July. Of course, there is a great desire to know not only the timing but the nodes and modifications that are being examined. Are they the conditions for access to psychotherapist status, the nature, the number of counselling, the autonomy in the quality of the practitioner as a psychotherapist with clinicians and orthopedagogues? What knots are still to be cut?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic236x.u137	Madam President, Mrs Hufkens, Mrs Gerkens, there are indeed several knots. The Law of 4 April 2014 contains a number of shortcomings which, as the case may be, jeopardise the feasibility of the law. For example, no account was taken of the fact that in Wallonia there is no autonomous training in orthopedagogy, as is the case in Flanders. The training and professional activity are situated there within the domain of psychology. However, the law states that the Federal Council for Clinical Psychology and Clinical Orthopedagogics must include a delegation from both Dutch and French orthopedagogics. The latter will therefore not be found in Wallonia. The Board cannot therefore be constituted validly and therefore cannot take up its mandate as an advisory body. This is a first major problem: the advisory board that had to advise us cannot be installed by this law. In addition, psychotherapy was chosen to regulate outside the law on health professions, which also does not apply the statutory quality and safety guarantees, and a system of authorisations was developed, which does not specify which government is competent to grant them. That's the second big button. So we need to change that law already, because as things stand at present, we are at an impasse and the law is actually impossible. So we need to make a recovery law first. A bill to amend the Act is currently being drafted. In this context, a solution to the current shortcomings is sought. Rationalization of advisory councils is being implemented. The aim is to ensure the optimal quality of care, including the inclusion of psychotherapy in the law of 10 May 2015 on care professions. As announced in November, explanations on the adapted concept will be provided here in the Public Health Committee. We can have a discussion on this. I am not happy with the quality of the law passed, but there is no problem, we will try to fix it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic236x.u138	Madam Secretary, of course it's annoying that you have to fix past laws, but it is. There is a great deal of concern in the sector, so it is important that we get clarity and certainty quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic236x.u139	Minister, for clinician orthopedagogues, the difference in training between the French- and Dutch-speaking parties had been reported. On the francophone side, psychology prevails. Masters, for their part, include an orientation in orthopedagogy. In my view, the opinion committee must say what its requirements are for training. I don't see any reason why there is a problem. The law on psychotherapy is not incorporated into the legislation on health professionals. That could be considered. On the other hand, the requirements for competence and the system that offers different initial training, but based on a certain base of competences approved by the Psychotherapy Council, are reflected in a law that seems to me to be of quality and that other countries are coming to us. I find it difficult to understand where the difficulties you're talking about are, except for a change in training requirements, psychotherapist status or initial training. They are open to professionals other than those who are already clinical psychologists, psychiatrists or doctors. In any case, the law sets out requirements in this regard. You say that on 10 November you will explain the proceedings. Until then, are you going to consult with the actors in the field? You didn't answer us about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic236x.u140	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic236x.u141	So, by that date, it won't be completely tied up yet?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic236x.u142	It's the schedule. Various groups are still invited to my firm. After November 10, there will obviously be adaptations. Then we will start the intercabinets meetings and then we will try to introduce the amended law.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic236x.u143	Minister, the amended legislation would arrive around January.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic236x.u144	As soon as possible. It is necessary to consider what adjustments are necessary. This cannot be done without adaptations.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic236x.u145	It is now important to continue the dialogue with stakeholders so that if there are changes, this can nevertheless respect the philosophy, framework and objectives of the current law and that there is agreement among all stakeholders. It's been a long time. However, it took ten to fifteen years to reach the previous law. If it is as it is, it was necessary to do all this collective work for so many years. The appointment is therefore scheduled for November 10, 2015.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic236x.u146	Minister, can we still ask you one or two questions?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic236x.u147	Madam President, I have to go to Kern. I can't apologize to the Kern because I have a question-and-answer session.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic236x.u148	Then we ask you one last question. Mrs Van Camp, you have the floor for your question No 6202 on hospital funding, unless you agree that your question will be postponed until 27 October 2015. Do you agree?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic236x.u149	Madam President, I would like to ask my question. Six hundred and twenty-two, please.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic236x.u150	Mr. President, Minister, obesity has now become a global health issue to the point that it is called an epidemic. The number of obese people more than doubled between 1980 and 2013. Overweight persons accounted for 29.8 per cent of the world 30 years ago, compared with 36.9 per cent of men and 38 per cent of women today. The experts therefore seek to define the causes of this situation, which seem to be multifactorial: genetics, politics, lifestyle-related. While the level of physical activity plays a role in the same way as the nature of food (for endocrinologists of a U.S.-N.Z. team that conducted, between 1971 and 2010 in 65 countries, the study of food energy availability, which represents food circulating in a country), the major factor appears to be the overabundance of food. This growth has been observed in both rich and low-income countries. According to Nathalie Farpour-Lambert, President of the European Association for the Study of Obesity, this situation is one of the effects of globalisation, promoting accessibility to processed industrial products, often nutritionally poor. To deal with this, the study mentioned stresses the need for appropriate policies on product labelling, taxation of problematic products, financial incentives for unprocessed products. Minister, a European decree has made it mandatory, since 1 July, to display allergens on food products. There is a debate about whether to make the display of the number of calories in food, as proposed by the FDA (Food Drug Administration in the United States) in November 2014, in order to change consumers' eating behaviour. People most sensitive to information are often those who are already informed and alert to food. In addition, beyond the amount of calories, it is their nature that matters, 100 calories of zucchini not acting on metabolism like 100 calories of chocolate bar. Minister, what are you looking at to deal with this important public health issue, the answers to which must take into account the diversity of human food situations and behaviours? What strategies can be proposed to avoid the perverse effects of control and cognitive restriction or bulimia? What solutions can be considered with the agri-food industry in order to avoid, here too, the perverse effect of signs favouring the number of calories on their nutritional qualities?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic236x.u151	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is true that the eating habits of a considerable part of the population are unbalanced. First of all, there is an over-consumption of poor calories from a nutritional point of view, in other words, with a high content of added sugars, saturated and fibre-free fats and micronutrients such as vitamins, minerals and essential fatty acids. In addition, the level of physical activity is too low. As you know, the Federal Nutrition Health Plan aims to improve the eating habits of the population living in Belgium. Currently, under the plan, we are working to improve food products by reducing the energy value of products on the Belgian market. This means in practice a reduction in the content of added sugars and fats, but also a qualitative improvement of the products by improving the quality of the sugars and fats present and by increasing the content of fibres and micronutrients. This reformulation work takes place in a specific working group within the Public Health FPS, in which the food industry and its sub-sectors, large distribution, horeca organizations, consumers and scientific experts are represented. One of the objectives of this group is to achieve concrete commitments to reduce the energy quality of food products. To promote a balanced diet and a higher level of physical activity, it is necessary to start with the education of the population from an early age. Raising awareness among the population and all actors is necessary. This is an ambitious goal that requires investment at all levels of power. One of the levers is to work on the supply side with food-producing economic operators. But that won't be enough. As the causes are multiple, we must work on all the factors.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic236x.u152	Minister, this is an important and cross-cutting issue, as you say. The problem must be addressed from childhood because when you see children eating chips instead of a meal, it is not satisfactory.
