ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic247x.u1	Colleagues, we are beginning to consider the questions addressed to the Secretary of State, Mr Tommelein. Question No 4499 by Mrs Sybille de Coster-Bauchau is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic247x.u2	Mr President, Secretary of State, I tabled my inquiry last May. It's October. The least we can say is that water has sank under the bridges since then, although clearly nothing has changed. I repeat what you said at the time: "People who do small jobs with neighbours, family or association must enter the legal circuit through reasonable compensation. Persons who engage as a coach in a sports club or volunteers for the Red Cross, for example, must be compensated in a reasonable manner and not by a black payment." So you have taken the commitment of volunteers and volunteers to work in the dark, and you are aware of how many volunteers and volunteers have felt insulted by your words. I agree with them on this point. I cannot help but read here an open letter addressed to you by the Francophone Volunteer Platform and I will allow myself to be their voice carrier. "Dear Mr Tommelein, on 25 May, we discovered in the press your statements in an interview given to the newspaper Gazet van Antwerpen. You feel that people who do small jobs with neighbours or in an association must enter the legal circuit through reasonable compensation. These are statements that have been particularly shocking to us, as have many volunteers and member associations at home. In fact, we had the opportunity to react to a JT on RTBF the following day. In fact, being voluntary is not like working in the dark. To hear you, we are tempted to think that you are making a big soup between voluntary status and that of a citizen. On the one hand, there is volunteerism, which is also defined by a law, a free act sometimes paid for, turned towards others, free and carried out within an organization. On the other hand, there are citizen gestures made between two people without them being organized, because we are just human beings. Doing things for free still makes sense for a million and a half Belgians. Of course, there is a payment to make voluntary work available to all, but these amounts cannot in any way be equated with a kind of salary. For thousands of volunteers, their salary will be a smile, a thank you, bursts of laughter, exchanges and not 6,000 euros a year." With regard to the Dutch-speaking equivalent, I would also like to refer you to the white card of Eva Hambach of Vlaams Steunpunt voor Vrijwilligerswerk. Mr Secretary of State, do you know that there are just over a million volunteers in Belgium? After these reactions, you announced that you wanted to work on a clearer status for these volunteers. As far as the legal plan is concerned, may I point out that there is no legal vacuum in this area? Should we remind you of the law of 3 July 2005 on the right of volunteers, which defines volunteerism as the activity carried out without remuneration or obligation, with the aim of helping others outside the context of daily paid work? Is it worth reminding you, Mr Secretary of State, that in the same law, the status of persons who make themselves available to ASBL or to associations governed by public law for a civic or humanitarian purpose is perfectly defined? Is it worth reminding you that, according to the doctrine, the voluntary activity carried out by one person for the benefit of another excludes the employment contract? This doctrine is based on the principle of the convention-law referred to in article 1134 of the Civil Code, which allows one person to exercise voluntary benefits for the benefit of another. Is it worth reminding you that, according to the doctrine, such benefits do not constitute a contract of employment? There is therefore no question here of a legal vacuum. The relevant legislation is clear. Now, obviously, you seem to discover it. From a political point of view, your remarks seem extremely ideological. You cannot imagine that giving time to others can make sense to some of our fellow citizens. You cannot imagine the exercise of an activity other than in a lucrative spirit. Secretary of State, I repeat here how essential volunteers are to the missions in which they participate. Without them, these important missions would be put into difficulty. In view of all these elements, and especially the legal elements, do you still regard volunteers and volunteers today as black workers? If this is not the case, what exactly was the meaning of your remarks? Who were you aiming at? You have announced that you want to work on a status for volunteers and volunteers. In the legal soup you made, we don't find ourselves there anymore. The status is clear from the legal point of view, as I pointed out. Can you therefore clarify the scope of your statements about the implementation of a clearer statute?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic247x.u3	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, in my question I read: 'Last weekend you launched in the press...' Unfortunately, I have to say that it is actually a question I tabled in May 2015. It is only now, almost six months later, that she is being treated by all kinds of circumstances. I'll put that aside. I would like to return to that idea that you launched in the press in mid-May 2015, namely the idea of making people earn more on more favourable terms. You explained in this respect that anyone who wants to work more on top of his job to save for a nice car or trip should not be punished for that. According to your words, associations should also be able to compensate their volunteers outside the black circuit. You have had a lot of criticism about that statement. You thus made it appear that that was perhaps not your intention, but it was nevertheless understood in that way that volunteer workers were paid in black. You are talking here, first of all, about a regular extra earnings and a real additional job. At the same time, however, you are also talking about voluntary work, for which expenses can be paid at the moment. I know the legislation on volunteering very well. After all, I was there when we passed that law in 2005. Together with Greta Döhondt, we also put forward a number of proposals to give volunteers a statute and to enable them to receive expenses which were not taxed up to a certain level. However, it concerns two different issues. On additional earnings, someone in our country should, of course, also pay taxes. After all, extra earning takes place in the context of work, which is completely different from volunteering. The word itself says: volunteering is about people who do that work in the context of a social return. On the other hand, someone who wants to work regularly does so primarily because of the financial aspect. Many volunteers therefore feel attacked when they are considered as undeclared workers. Most volunteers get no compensation at all, although the law makes that perfectly possible. Most volunteers do their volunteer work purely out of humanity, purely because they want to support other people and purely for the community. For example, the Red Cross had also responded because it was suddenly endorsed by you. However, volunteers there receive no compensation in black but only the cost compensation mentioned above. In that context, I would have liked to ask you two questions. How do you intend to treat a person who does an ordinary additional job, for example as an employee in a private sector enterprise, in the same way as a volunteer worker, as provided for in Article 3 of the Voluntary Act? Are there not alternatives which preserve the individuality of each scheme and therefore take account of the differences between them as regards the purpose in the treatment of both activities at the present time? CD&V has also submitted a bill in which we argue for higher expenses for volunteers who are active in caring volunteering. This is socially very useful work, for example in the care of the sick or the night care of the elderly. However, they often hit the existing maximum limit. I would like to emphasise that, in itself, this is still about volunteering. However, we are asking that the limit for the reimbursement of expenses for caring volunteering be raised. What do you think of this initiative? Could this possibly provide a solution in this discussion?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic247x.u4	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, the question actually dates back to May following the statements made in Gazet van Antwerpen. posing it today, I would express it differently than at that time. An excerpt from this daily newspaper was quoted and some volunteers, within the meaning of the 2005 law, may have been somewhat shocked by words that I would call clumsy. News brings this issue of volunteering back to the foreground since yesterday the Fondation Roi Baudouin presented a study on volunteering in Belgium. According to this study, 1,160,000 people are volunteering in our country. Apart from volunteering, as defined in the 2005 Act, there are also 600,000 people who practice what they call informal volunteering: helping their elderly neighbour for a particular task does not actually fall within the scope of the law. It is therefore not necessary to confuse the basic volunteer covered by the 2005 Act with informal voluntary work outside the scope of the Act and what is then covered by the grey area, semi-agoral work, which was not defined in the 2005 Act. An inquiry is made to the government in general. In addition, I would like to ask Mrs De Block a few questions this afternoon, who was also present at the presentation of this study. Ten years after the adoption of this law, it is time to assess all aspects of it. The legislator did not go any further to define in this grey area the status of the Red Cross paramedics and other agencies, or the status of sports services. In the latter sector, there are volunteers who are clearly reflected in the Volunteering Act and there are other situations that need to be addressed by the government. A controversy over basketball referees arose some time ago with the SPF Finances. What is the fiscal situation and what are the income of the referees for football, basketball or other sports? The people who supervise young people also ask questions. It must be noted that the Regions and Communities should finance a number of missions in this field, and there is therefore a need for consultation with them. Beyond any controversy and the questions I would like to ask you about the statutes that are more flexible, the government should take the case as a whole, evaluate a number of benefits that fall outside the scope of the 2005 law without amalgamating black work with volunteerism, which was found in the article. I am concerned about the issue of more flexible statutes. The sector is seeking the government's attention to semi-agoral work, such as sports and ambulance services. The latter have either a public status or a sui generis status as a Red Cross volunteer. Remuneration, tax and social situations differ according to status. Could you clarify what you mean by flexibility of status? How do you define the status you want to set up to supervise some volunteers in the grey zone? What would be its contours? How are you going to ensure the balance between real volunteering – the free act that is done by a number of citizens – and paid or wage-earning work? How are you going to define this status between these two poles, while at the same time ensuring that it does not harm employment? This reproach had been made, at the time, to the law on volunteering. It was a false trial. But, on the other hand, we need to be more careful about semi-agoral work. Will a wage-earning worker who rounds his end of the month with minor work not be punished? What about job seekers? Ideological questions arise here. What status do you envisage for people who do not come under the 2005 Act and who are in this grey area? I assume you have discussed this with your colleague Mrs De Block or with the government as a whole.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic247x.u5	Mr Gilkinet is absent. So his question cannot be asked.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic247x.u6	Mr President, it is also a digging back in time for me. A ruling or an interview from the month of May was also a long time ago for me. You know that I have a very strong parliamentary reflex. If Parliament calls me, I will come. It's a matter of agenda and making sure I get a seat somewhere. As Secretary of State, I have no priority over ministers who can be dealt with here earlier. I'm available if I have to. I would like to come sooner in future, but this will depend on parliamentary work. First of all, I would like to say that I agree with your party chairman, Mrs Lanjri. He responded after my interview when there was a riot with the Red Cross. Then he called for the word to be kept pure. Although I am a communication specialist, I believe that in that interview I went too vaguely and too quickly about the use of the word volunteer and my drive to tackle undeclared work in this country. This has led some people to misunderstand that I labeled them as undeclared workers, which was not the intention at all. On the other hand, we must not draw it on bottles. We really shouldn't start overreacting and pretending that I'd done a lot of bad things. I contacted the people of the Red Cross immediately. In fact, if you read the interview correctly, you will notice that I did not even mention the people of the Red Cross. In the interview with the Gazette of Antwerp, the Red Cross was not mentioned. The newspaper itself had taken as an example in its announcement on page 1 volunteers of the Red Cross. I finished talking to the Red Cross. In fact, I've been out for a day with volunteers from the Red Cross. Let's get this over with. I think Mr. Beke is right. We must keep the use of words pure. As Secretary of State for the fight against social fraud, I am very pleased that you have come back to this on several occasions, Mr Delizée, is that there are a number of uncertainties in the 2005 law, a grey area as you call it, which would best be addressed. Just so we're clear, that's not my jurisdiction. It's Mrs. De Block's. I talked to her about this. I have had to admit to her that the use of words is rather purer. I'm a guy on the property. I'm proud of that. I may have been a little too quick in the use of words in the interview, but pretending there is no problem in the field and everyone walks neatly within the lines and anyone who performs an activity after his normal day job or not even a normal day job, which indicates neatly and earns nothing in black, is not reality. We all know that. In particular, I received reactions from sports associations immediately after the ruling and the question to discuss it. I'm a daddy of several kids doing sports. I also see the reality. Surely it is not possible for the people who accompany my children in the sports club to be paid officially in a proper way or to have such a great commitment that they sacrifice all their free time to be involved in guiding children. No, Mr President, that is not the reality. Several sports federations, whether they are basketball, volleyball, football, have informally informed me that this should happen. The situation is now that we all think it is very normal that our children are taken in sports clubs, with training on Wednesdays and Fridays, match on Saturdays, reserve matches and main matches. We all believe that this belongs to the status of volunteers and that this is regulated through expense notes. I don't want to make anyone suspicious. I don't mean to make all the trainers, coaches, or players in sports clubs suspicious. Some of them probably do this because of their commitment. This depends on the situation, but everyone knows that something needs to be done about it. So that statute exists. As Secretary of State responsible for combating social fraud, I am afraid to say that it is all neat. I think that this should be the subject of a debate, which is why I made those statements in the newspaper. That there are volunteers who work for free and are committed, I know. That's something I respect enormously. If we did not have those people, especially in the health sector, it would be a very big problem. There are indeed people who volunteer to do so. They do that out of conviction and should not have any compensation for it. I know such people in my own environment. So there are effective differences and one was mixed with the other. Wouter Beke has therefore rightly called for the use of words to be kept pure. What's my responsibility now? I'm not interested in the fact that someone's doing a job at his neighbor's house. In fact, I think that is a very good thing. I'm not interested in the fact that he does that twice or three times. However, I am concerned about the fact that in reality there are people who do so systematically in the field. In the long run, they'll make different chores out of that one job. In the long run, they have an effective activity that no longer matches a neighbour's needs. I would simply like to clarify this personally, as Secretary of State in charge of combating social fraud. Do I want neighbors to help each other? Yes. Do I also want this to be possible at some point even with a small fee? Yes. Is that black work for me? No. However, if we consider it today, it is undeclared work and those people are actually paid in black. As a neighbor across the street starts shaving the hedges and mowing the grass, in the long run he has an activity that is more than just helping the neighbors. I believe that there should be clarity about this and that people who want to help each other should also know how far they can and can go. Is it my job as Secretary of State to work that out? No. I would like to put the question very clearly to my fellow Members who have that competence, first of all, Mrs De Block, in order to see how the various facets of the grey zone, as Mr Delizée calls it, can be resolved. I am really convinced that this is a situation over which there have been a lot of misunderstandings. Some people think I've accused certain volunteers. Mrs. Fonck asked me who I'm fishing for. I'm not at war, I'm just determining matters that exist on the ground. I also told Mrs Lanjri before the interview that we should have a debate on this. Mrs Lanjri had even reached out to me at the time, but the interview had already appeared. However, Mrs Lanjri, we must have this debate effectively. I would like to see a situation in which there is a framework for a white economy when it comes to providing jobs between individuals. That must not be done in black. We must also be honest: sometimes it is impossible to find a registered contractor, plumber or electrician for a small job in the house. People are confronted with that. An official contractor who works on invoice sometimes does not come for repairing toilet glasses because that is not interesting enough for him. Besides, it's too expensive for him to include the relocation. In the global context of the change of mentality which is my responsibility, I must make it clear to people that social fraud is also fraud and that working in the dark in acquaintances and neighbors is what is happening effectively today, but one pretends that none of this is happening, too, should be changed. I agree that this should not be mixed with voluntary work, Mrs Lanjri. I really agree with that. I apologise for the careless use of words in relation to, on the one hand, my pursuit of a white economy and performance in a correct way, in any situation, and, on the other hand, the voluntary status. You have indeed put forward a number of proposals on this subject, but I will not go into them, because it is not within my competence. If you ask me if I think that fees for volunteering should be raised, I can express my personal opinion on this, but I am not here to do so. I'm here on behalf of the government. It is up to Minister De Block to answer that question. What I do intend to do is to ensure that undeclared work and social fraud are banned from our society. That means a change of mind. Whether you like it or not, ladies and gentlemen, we must not close our eyes to a number of realistic situations in the field where compensation is clearly paid in an incorrect way. That is what we must do.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic247x.u7	Minister, you permanently re-introduce the various debates. Does any additional professional activity have to be declared? It's obvious! Besides that, your remarks which were absolutely not related to a complementary professional activity were completely unjustified. They made a mix by making volunteers and volunteers look like fraudsters. Your comments were unwarranted and not legally based because the 2005 law is clear and well-targeted for those who invest in ASBL or public law associations for a civic or humanitarian purpose. You're talking about a grey area that's not that gray. It should be recalled that in the field of law, judgments have been delivered. I would like to quote Professor Viviane Vannes of the ULB, who refers to a judgment of the Liège Labour Court which was called upon to rule in a dispute on the existence of a contract of employment for persons who had been engaged in voluntary activities for more than ten years. While we were not in an association, the court clearly ruled, arguing that the voluntary activity carried out by one person for the benefit of another excludes the employment contract under article 1134 of the Civil Code. Mr Secretary of State, I would also like to refer to another judgment of the Liège Labour Court of 21 November 2000 which defines professional activity as the exercise of an activity for the purpose of lucrative action and which is indeed the exercise of a usual activity. We are obviously not in this context when it comes to volunteers who invest themselves free of charge outside any lucrative objective and in an activity, including outside an association, for a neighbour, to help an elderly person in a whole series of work menus. Let's not reinvent the Moon: the major elements of this case have long existed, both in the 2005 law, in judgments handed down and in the case law. You make a gesture today by apologizing for the use of incorrect terminology. I hope, Mr Secretary of State, that you will also address the issue, philosophically and ideologically, in a way other than last May. As I said earlier, my fear is that you cannot imagine that it makes sense for citizens to invest for free for others. You refer us to Minister De Block, while in May you yourself announced that you wanted to review the legislation and put in place a new system. Mr. Chairman, I move a motion. First of all, because I think it is important for this government to be reminded that it must recognize the importance of investing time and value in volunteering and volunteering in our society. At the same time, it is also important today to make progress on an evaluation of the 2005 Act, in particular on assessing whether the amount of compensation received is still sufficient and, possibly, increasing it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic247x.u8	In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. A motion for recommendation was tabled by Ms. Catherine Fonck and reads as follows: The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Ms. Catherine Fonck and the response of the Secretary of State for the Fight against Social Fraud, the Protection of Privacy and the North Sea, Deputy to the Minister of Social Affairs and Public Health, asks the government, - first, to stop any mix between black work and volunteer work / volunteering; - to recognise the importance of volunteering, in particular in terms of time and added value, / volunteering within our society; - finally, to carry out an evaluation of Law 3 July 2005 on the rights of volunteers in order, in particular, to assess whether the amount of compensation received is still sufficient and, where appropriate, to increase it. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Catherine Fonck and reads as follows: The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mrs Catherine Fonck and the reply of the Secretary of State for Combating Social Fraud, Privacy and the North Sea, attached to the Minister for Social Affairs and Health, asks the government, - to stop throwing undeclared work and volunteering into one heap; - also recognise the importance of volunteering in our society, in terms of time investment and added value; - finally, to evaluate the law of 3 July 2005 on the rights of volunteers, in particular in order to assess whether the fees are still adequate and, if necessary, to raise them." A simple motion was tabled by Messrs. Vincent Van Quickenborne, Wouter Raskin et Stefaan Vercamer. A simple motion was tabled by Mr Vincent Van Quickenborne, Mr Wouter Raskin and Mr Stefaan Vercamer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic247x.u9	Mr Secretary of State, it's a good thing you're doing the "I" thing again. I noted that you did the same in the media shortly after the interview. You apologized all the time. However, I am surprised that you are not answering the questions on the substance of the matter today. Let us not talk about the misunderstanding surrounding your wording, but the main reason for this was that you said you wanted to work on a solution that would no longer be regarded as undeclared work. You said that at the time, but now you're saying it's not your jurisdiction, it's Minister De Block's. Minister De Block, of course, belongs to the same party as you, and you also launched the idea, so I expected you to have an idea. Maybe that idea hasn't worked out quite yet, but it would tell us a little bit more about how you want to do the job, without considering it as undeclared work. Nor can you say that you are not competent, Mr Secretary of State. You're authorized. You are the Secretary of State responsible for combating social fraud, privacy and the North Sea. In any case, you have the power to intervene in the fight against social fraud. You gave the example of a neighbor who doesn't just cut the neighbor's hedge, but makes it a part-time job or even a full-time job by cutting across the entire municipality. That is no longer purely voluntary work, Mr Tommelein, but that is undeclared work. Of course, that man competes with other gardeners. In that respect, you do have the authority to deal with undeclared work. Why don't you take on that kind of undeclared work? I'm not talking about a guy who comes to fix a toilet seat. Let us start with your example of someone who is going to do some work and get his main income out of it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic247x.u10	Mrs Lanjri, I agree with you, but now you are making a plea with me to clarify this issue effectively. Common sense says that a neighbor who cuts the hedge for the whole street is clearly working badly. However, if I maintain Mr Van Quickenborne's garden out of friendship, with a certain regularity, and he gives me a small fee, then that is also undeclared work. Considering the goalie, legally, if someone gets a fee to do a particular job with a neighbor, which happens in practice, that's undeclared work. I therefore call for clarity in a number of situations. We should provide that citizens, regardless of their social status, can carry out tasks with friends and acquaintances and receive compensation for them, without imposing heavy burdens on them, or without calling them undeclared work. In other words, I believe that there should be a system, a job service, in which individuals can help each other at a maximum amount, in such a way that such tasks become possible. It should also be possible in an association or sports club, without the person concerned having to go into the black circuit, because otherwise it will become unaffordable for the sports association itself. It is absolutely not intended that the system should compete with those who provide services on their own. However, there is a clear need for a statute whereby we allow such chores to be done. Let us keep the use of words pure. It has nothing to do with the voluntary status. It's about people doing an occasional job on an irregular basis with another private individual. I am in favour of that. Mrs Lanjri, you are right to say that as Secretary of State for Combating Social Fraud I should be interested. I have to take part in the debate on this. I can ask the government to take steps on this and more specifically I can ask Minister De Block to do so. However, it is not within my powers to draw up a regulation of my own. This is a matter which falls within the competence of the Minister for Social Affairs and the Minister for Employment, with me, where appropriate, in the fight against social fraud. It is certainly not an exclusive competence of mine.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic247x.u11	No, Mr Secretary of State. The possible confusion with the voluntary status cannot be attributed to me. I have always made a clear distinction, even earlier. You have just launched the proposal. Even if a number of aspects do not fall within your competence, you remain responsible for combating fraud. A number of people are constantly doing undeclared work. You have the authority to do so and you can act in this respect. Or don't you want to perform because some people get a bottle of wine once when they've been working with their neighbor for an hour? You must act against them...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic247x.u12	But how can I perform? You want me to trespass?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic247x.u13	No.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic247x.u14	I can't act on that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic247x.u15	You don't have a plan to act against undeclared work?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic247x.u16	I'll make a call. You constantly tell me that I have made a proposal. No, I did an analysis. I'm responsible for the fight against social exclusion. I'm a man of the terrain, and I'm proud of that too. I know what happens in reality. Some people in Parliament and the political world simply do not want to see a number of things. I can see them. I see them happening around me. I note that we continue to tolerate this and cannot act against it. After all, I cannot stand up to that. How can I put the Social Inspectorate to work if I do something in my neighbor's garden? How can I prove that a fee is paid for this? I am simply saying that I think it would be good if we were to clarify this. That way everyone knows what can and can't be done. I can take action against a neighbor who works in all the street gardens. You will have to decide with me in which cases I do and in which cases I should not act.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic247x.u17	You can also act against people even in sports clubs that are paid half-time in black.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic247x.u18	That'll be fun!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic247x.u19	Mr Tommelein, I did not say that this should not be discussed. One must draw a line in that. I also think that a number of things are very valuable, and I am thinking of social and cultural associations. We must find solutions to this. I am in favour of actually doing so. I didn't think it was bad that you launched the discussion, but I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic247x.u20	We'll do it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic247x.u21	That is interesting for the report. Many social inspectors can take advantage of these words.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic247x.u22	Mr. Secretary of State, you recognize a mistake and you're right. I don't know if it's an apology, but whatever it is, it's not the most important subject for me. I think we are mixing two different things: on the one hand, informal volunteering, that is to say, one that provides free services for an elderly neighbour such as mowing the lawn, for example, and on the other hand, work in the dark. If someone makes all the lawns on the street, it's actually your responsibility, it's the fight against work in the dark. What bothers me is that we associate the debate on volunteerism with the debate on black work. I think these are two different things to deal with separately. Secondly, you say that there are uncertainties in the 2005 law. However, there is no ambiguity on the point raised. There has been a long debate. The legislator wanted to determine the rights of the ordinary volunteer, the rights of the basic volunteer. He said that the grey zone would later be dealt with in another law, another decree or a KB. However, there has never been a debate on this subject. We will have to work on this at the time of the evaluation of the 2005 Act. It's a question that goes beyond your own skills. Take the example of sport, for some providers, one is still under the 1999 "Viseur" circular or even under previous Finance circulars in respect of stewards, cashiers, those who draw the lines, coaches in part, because it is known that they are paid more than the deductions that are foreseen and that have not even been indexed since before 1999. This is a much more global issue. We must ask ourselves what the government and the legislator accept as tax-deductible payments. All that is more than that is indeed work in the dark, and it must be controlled as such. And to throw an extra pad into the pool, what about the status of players in amateur clubs? How many are paid and by whom? How are these payments funded? I think that's partly beyond your skills. This debate must take place, including on the issue of paramedics. The status of paramedics may need to be reviewed because, for the same services, there are now two different statutes: either they belong to the public statute or to the civil society statute. Having said that, Secretary of State, you have not answered my third question. In your article, you say that this type of commitment must be compensated and be subject to new, more flexible statutes with less social and fiscal pressure but you have not defined anything. Perhaps this is a general idea? What is this mini-status then? How do you define it? Can a worker receive a payment if he mows Mr. President's lawn? And if he is a job seeker, can he also do so? Here I take the example that the Secretary of State has taken. So what is this more flexible status you're considering? How can you define it? I ask for an answer to this question, which is the main one.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic247x.u23	I don't think the idea has worked out yet. Can I sum it up like that?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic247x.u24	I think you can sum it up like that. Mr Delizee, first of all I would like to congratulate you on the Dutch you have just used. Très bien.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic247x.u25	You've known for a long time that he speaks Dutch very well. Who can boast of a long parliamentary tradition, know that for sure.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic247x.u26	I've known Mr. Delizée for a long time and he's improved a lot. Mr Delizée, if I sum up, I feel that there is a need for a debate. I don't want to get ahead of myself. I have noted that certain matters need to be cleared up on the ground. If I make statements about this and make a proposal, allow me to do so together with my fellow Members. I cannot begin to suggest myself here. I believe that I should know both Mrs De Block and Mr Peeters. We need to consult, including with the various groups in Parliament. There are different ideas about it, but it is important that there is a need for debate and clarity. Mr Delizee, I believe that we agree on a great many things. The problem can be better dealt with than muddled. I am not saying that all trainers in sports circles are paid more under the table, but we have to be realistic, in many cases it is. Witness to that are the national sports federations, who, on the basis of the interview, asked to have a conversation with me about it. After all, they know they have a problem. Mr Vercamer, we all think it is normal for our children to go to sports clubs on Wednesdays, Fridays and Saturdays and be taken in. They are accompanied there for hours, but when it comes to giving these trainers a decent, realistic statute, we do not give them at home. It's really important that we take care of that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic247x.u27	Mr President, Parliament has the last word. I finish in Dutch. We are asking for an in-depth debate on the grey zone and for an in-depth discussion on the matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic247x.u28	The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic247x.u29	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, my question is a little dated, but no one knows that the end of the previous session has been somewhat agitated. In view of the amount of parliamentary work, my question, although tabled in April, could not be asked in the meantime. Last April, you announced the use of household energy consumption data to combat social fraud. In your 2015 action plan, you specified that this project would start in October. In June, the Privacy Commission issued a notice inviting you to review your copy. Indeed, if the bill were to be passed as it stood, the energy data of all the social beneficiaries would be automatically transmitted to the administration by the suppliers. This operation, called the "datamining of the social insured", would profile the abusers. Thus, if consumption is abnormally high for a person, he or she would be suspected of not living alone, but of cohabiting with a person domiciled elsewhere. Any suspicion of fraud would then trigger an unannounced home visit. In appearance, this may seem positive and give the impression that we are fighting fraudsters. But this method may well prove to be overly complex and lead to many mistakes. I will cite an example in a few moments. The method, to be reliable, requires precise definitions. A standard should be established below and above which energy consumption will be considered "abnormal". Such a standard should ideally take into account a very wide range of factors. For example, the "normal" heating consumption of an old 50 m2 apartment can be nearly 20 times higher than that of a new 25 m2 studio which meets the latest energy standards, including a hyper-performance heating system. These two types of accommodation are not exceptional. They could both accommodate the same household. From one to the other, consumption will go from simple to double and one household will be suspected of fraud and the other will not. In addition, there is a risk of privacy for the unemployed and social beneficiaries. What do they eat as food? Do they use the microwave a lot? Do they wash their laundry at the laundry or at home? It seems impossible to correctly define a reliable standard to determine normality or abnormality. Mr Secretary of State, have you established a reliable standard below and above which energy consumption will be considered abnormal? Consider the size and energy performance of housing, equipment, time spent in housing, habits, etc.- Is that what you're saying? There is no database on this subject. Therefore, if a reliable standard has been established, on which criteria I hope it has been designed? How do you hope to accurately and fairly diagnose households with more occupants than those who live there, since it is not exceptional that the consumption of an isolated person far exceeds that of two average consumers? An isolated unit does not only have half a fridge, half a television or half a microwave oven. What impact will these measures have on the social bodies responsible for investigating, such as CPAS? I will give you an example, which has been widely used, among other things, by a party of your majority. In Wallonia, controls had been put forward by the public service housing company of the City of Charleroi, namely La Sambrienne, which I know particularly well because I am president of the CPAS of Charleroi. This was included in the headlines: "Four hundred fraudsters in Charleroi". We were going to see what we were going to see on the basis of energy and water consumption. After carrying out all the checks that were necessary – asking people what their habits were, for example – twelve frauds were found. So we put some four hundred people on the harness that we pointed at as fraudsters. I know people often say we don't make omelettes without breaking eggs. However, in a material as sensitive as this one, one must instead walk on eggs without breaking them! If we have rights, we also have obligations. Your answers will allow us to keep the eggs whole.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic247x.u30	Mr Secretary of State, my question will have the same scope. By way of introduction, I would say that, in order to combat fictitious domiciliations, there are other means than those proposed here. This method must undoubtedly be seen as an ideological connotation. You plan to introduce an automatic transmission system of energy data for all social recipients. In this sense, if a person's consumption is abnormally high, the person would be suspected of not living alone. Conversely, if someone doesn't consume anything, it would be the sign that he doesn't live where he claims it. His domiciliation would then be fictitious. As my colleague Eric Massin has said, the measure you are advocating seems unrealistic to us, because it involves defining a standard below and above which energy consumption is considered to be "abnormal". However, we see that energy consumption varies, in fact, according to many factors: the financial means of the household person, personality, behaviour, some are more vile than others, some need to heat more, etc. Consumption will therefore vary from person to person. That's the reality. It is not unusual for a household to consume perhaps 50% more or less than the average or other people. Several phenomena are relevant: in some cases, social beneficiaries live in poorly isolated, energy-intensive housing. It is a reality and it is precisely necessary to help these people because they devote important parts of their resources to this energy which evaporates, which passes through these houses and vice versa, others consume less because they are deprived of heating, unable to afford it. Given all these situations, perhaps you don't know them or you don't want to know them, nevertheless it seems to us quite illusory to hope to reliably diagnose if households receive more occupants than those who are domiciled, etc., or if the consumption of an isolated person far exceeds that of two average consumers. As my colleague Eric Massin said, does an isolated person cook less than a couple, does she watch less television, only have half a frigo? No, of course not. There is therefore no doubt that there are elements to be taken into account in this area. We find it impossible to define this standard by this unrealistic nature. Then, it would probably be socially unfair and would contribute to further stigmatizing the social beneficiaries by creating a suspicious feeling towards them. If the aim is to fight fictitious homes, there are other ways more effective than those to develop; My questions are as follows. How will you establish this standard of consumption? When will over-consumption or under-consumption be considered abnormal? When will recipients of social assistance, depending on the answer to the previous question, be suspected of fraud? What will be the consequences of an "abnormal" over- or under-consumption? How many cases of fraud do you intend to detect through this datamining system? Finally, the timetable: when will this draft be tabled in Parliament and at what stage is it currently in place?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic247x.u31	Mr President, I refer to the questions raised by Mrs de Coster-Bauchau and Mr Geerts last February and May. With regard to the issue of setting limit values, I can inform you that no standards have been set to date. The file was again submitted to the National Labour Council for its opinion. A second reading will then be given to the Council of Ministers. The Royal Decree containing the limit gap must therefore still be drafted. We could, for example, Mr Delizée, define as a reliable standard, to consider that it is an abnormally high or low consumption, 80% up or down the average energy consumption of a household. [[Not 50%, but 80%!]] Then I inform you that I have already attended a meeting with the sector to organize a pilot project in the first phase with the ONEM.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic247x.u32	Which sector?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic247x.u33	With the energy sector, in order to organise a pilot project that will start in January! Of course, you are right in saying that there is no database that contains, by address, the energy performance of the dwellings, the habits of the occupants. However, the sector has precise figures to calculate the averages by household type. Distribution system operators request data from the National Register on the number of persons domiciled on their network each year. I therefore trust that the criteria on the basis of which averages are calculated are well defined by address, by annual average, by family and by type of contract. As I have already explained, the data that are transferred is only an additional indicator, as is the case in each social fraud investigation, to determine whether it is a case of home fraud. The social insured always keeps the possibility to submit supporting documents showing in this case that his situation responds to the energy consumption fixed. For example, he could be hospitalized for a long time or the house he occupies may be an old, poorly isolated house. In any case, the social inspector has discretion to verify the evidence. As I said, a pilot project will be launched with the ONEM. It is only if there is a file at the ONEM that a push will be organised via the Banque-Carrefour de la sécurité sociale. The impact on CPAS is therefore non-existent. Based on the 2014 figures, I can inform you as follows. The ONEM found 10,566 infringements for a total amount of 36,786,331.57 euros. This is the annual report of the ONEM.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic247x.u34	These fictitious homes are detected by inspection routes and other means of control?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic247x.u35	Yeah, for home fraud. INAMI found 157 cases of home fraud amounting to €18,061.70, according to the annual report of INAMI. Finally, I would like to recall the main points of the legislation on the push of energy data. First, the push of energy data is rather preventive and should help prevent home fraud and avoid subsequent recovery. Ladies and gentlemen, as I have just said in my discussion, I think that as a member of the government I should keep the use of words pure, but I also think that the members of the opposition should do so. In your speech, you have automatically equated a person with a different energy consumption behaviour with a fraud, so I do not do that. I get a signal that something is abnormal and then there are enough elements to see if something is going on or not. The gas, water and electricity consumption data transferred to the Banque Carrefour de la Sécurité Sociale will serve as additional indicators to enable the Social Inspection Service to better detect home fraud.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic247x.u36	Thank you, Secretary of State. 80% more or less than the household average is an initial indication that can be discussed and debated. It will be very interesting and very important to have the opinion of the National Labour Council. In relation to your pilot project, would it be possible for you to provide us with the information to avoid having to ask you questions? It would help us a lot. As for the sector's databases, i.e. the qualitative elements of housing, the sector does not have them. It's an important element. I would like us to stick to this logic that the social inspector has a discretionary power to assess. Standards must be respected, including all matters relating to the confidentiality of processing and data. You have told us about the opposition that can make speeches that you would like them to be more measured or more in line with reality. The same is true of the majority, which may suggest that there may be misappropriation of certain general principles of law. I don't want to be a teacher. But if you give us any advice, I'd also like to give you one. In the majority, it would also be good for you to pay attention from time to time to these statements because they tend to put oil on the fire. It's not done to improve the model. With regard to the impact on CPAS, I have no doubt for a second, and this appears in some requests to Parliament, that as a result of what you are advocating for in relation to certain federal institutions such as ONEM and INAMI with datamining, we are heading for CPAS tomorrow. Today there's no impact, but we'll see what happens tomorrow.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic247x.u37	On the substance, I am not convinced of the realistic nature of this mechanism. In any case, I am not convinced by your explanations, Secretary of State. I therefore remain on my point of view in this respect. There will therefore be a discretionary power of the controllers and I assume that, on the basis of suspicion, a home visit may take place, without the unemployed being summoned to discuss this issue of energy expenditure. As far as the timetable is concerned, we must be aware of the text. Indeed, you have said that no standard has been set to date and that there is a possibility of 80% upwards or downwards. We must be able to dispose of the text as tabled. You talked about the National Labour Council. When was the request for an opinion submitted? When do you expect to receive this notice? Has the Council of State already taken a decision on the draft or will it be forwarded to it at a later date? When do you think this matter will be submitted to Parliament?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic247x.u38	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I asked for the opinion of the CNT in July. Normally, it should be transmitted to me soon. The Council of State has already delivered its opinion.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic247x.u39	Will the opinion of the Council of State be sought again?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic247x.u40	Normally, no.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic247x.u41	When will the draft be submitted to Parliament?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic247x.u42	This is a pilot project.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic247x.u43	Yes, but when will it be submitted to Parliament?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic247x.u44	Probably next year.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic247x.u45	December 2016?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic247x.u46	Maybe. Maybe for your Christmas too.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic247x.u47	Mr President, this is a timely matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic247x.u48	Yes! There are articles about "Is a spaghetti or a croque-monsieur a snack or a dish?"
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic247x.u49	What about peanuts or cheese donated with beer?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic247x.u50	Yes, it's amazing! I remember these discussions about vestigingswet.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic247x.u51	Secretary of State, my question is dated May 8, 2015. Do you mind if I update it a little bit? The new legislation requiring the Horeca to have a cash register system has been the subject of debate since its introduction. It provides that, since 1 January 2015, any operator in the horeca sector whose turnover is at least 10% from meals consumed on the spot must have such a fund. Until 1 January 2016, no penalties will be applied to the operator who does not comply with this obligation, but since 4 May, the FPS Finance carries out awareness visits on farms that have not yet registered. At the beginning of May, you said that 20 000 operators had registered, but that more than 10 000 remained and that there would therefore be a delay in the deployment of the device. To date, however, there are 6 to 7,000 caisses in the 35,000 establishments in the country. The sector is still very reluctant to this provision, especially since legal opinions calling it into question are increasing. On Monday, 19 October, the Council of State issued an opinion in which it considered unconstitutional the link between the 10% threshold and the regularity of the provision of meals in a horeca establishment. The fight against undeclared work must of course remain a priority, but the measures must not paralyse the horeca sector or the small non-profit organisations which are also obliged to follow this legislation. Some small sports clubs, for example, which do not use black workers but mainly volunteers, are concerned about this new obligation. However, the Secretary of State previously in charge of combating tax fraud explained in committee on 28 January 2015 how specific and adapted measures can be incorporated into legislation so as not to paralyze associative life. Furthermore, it seems that traders are beginning to think about alternatives to circumvent legislation. Indeed, food trucks are multiplying. There are already more than 240 in Belgium according to the Belgian Food Truck Association. These vehicles offer artisanal urban gastronomy to take away: coffee, fries, small organic dishes, vegan, burgers and are not obliged to equip themselves with a cash register, especially since the cost of the installation is not negligible (1 800 to 5 000 euros) Mr Secretary of State, since the figures are contradictory, how many horeca establishments have already registered and how many still have to do so? Considering the delay in recording, what delay should be expected in implementing the devices? Will there be an implementation in the light of the different legal opinions? You stated that no sanctions would be imposed on operators who are lagging behind for reasons that are valid and beyond their control. How will the controls be put in place to comply with this? Will sanctions still be applied from 1 January 2016? Have specific measures been put in place for small non-profit associations in order not to sanction the voluntary sector? Has an analysis of the food truck phenomenon been carried out? Are any measures taken to prevent this system from being an alternative to the cash register and from harming the purpose of combating work in the dark? Finally, will the last two points be answered in Minister Van Overtveld's next proposal since the Council of State has issued an opinion? How does the government intend to solve these two problems and position itself against the advice of the Council of State? In other words, what will be the future of these cash registers?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic247x.u52	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, when I wrote this question, I wrote that there was destruction. Today we are almost certain that this law will be destroyed, because the Council of State cannot live with that 10% rule, which the VAT administration invented. In fact, it says "who regularly provide meals' and the VAT administration has made it 10 % in its own right. The Council of State cannot live with this and says that the principle of constitutional equality has been violated. The consequences of this possible ruling are not yet clear, but there may be an impact on the further introduction of the cash register. That concerns me, especially when I read the reaction of Horeca Vlaanderen to that possible statement by the Council of State. Horeca Vlaanderen says that, in addition to the aid measures already announced, which will soon be voted on in plenary, the wage burden of the permanent workers must also be reduced and that they will only then introduce the white checkout. That wasn't the deal, and that wasn't your commitment either. The agreement was, and continues to be, that the white register should be introduced at the same time as the aid measures. That's why I would have liked to know your reaction. If that verdict comes, what will you do? Will the cash register be effectively introduced at the same time as the aid measures? The Minister of Finance is also involved. Did you or did you not make arrangements with him about this? I would have liked to have received a final update on the state of play. In a scenario where the compulsory introduction would still be delayed, it would still allow transitional measures to be introduced. It is a hypothetical question: how much will you delay the aid measures, because one must remain linked to the other?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic247x.u53	Mr Secretary of State, these are two interesting and very topical questions. Of course, it is not your competence to decide who has a white register and who does not, it is the Finance Minister who decides, but Mr Vercamer is quite right to say that we need to act now and that we cannot postpone it again. I find the discussion about pasta and croque monsieur, quite frankly, something typical of Belgium, making it even more difficult. I thought your accompanying measures, for which you are responsible and which we hope to approve on Thursday, apply to the whole of the catering industry. There's a lot in there. Those flexi jobs also apply to the entire catering industry. I find it very strange to postpone certain sectors, quite frankly.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic247x.u54	It may well be that the measures that we are going to adopt will end up in the same vein. Here too, the Council of State pointed out the principle of equality.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic247x.u55	Colleagues, the government wants to evolve into a 100 percent white restaurant, with a white cash register. I would point out that undeclared work is prohibited even without a white register. I would like to introduce this measure and I hope that tomorrow you will approve it in plenary. The aim of this measure is to ensure that there is no longer any need to work in the black. Let us begin by removing the cause of undeclared work, in particular a lack of flexibility and realistic wage burdens in a sector that needs to be flexible for customers, but which also needs the flexibility to be able to do so. I want to do this in order to give workers more social protection. After all, I note that there are a lot of people working in the hospitality sector in a statute that does not protect them. I think this is very important. I'm not just fighting here for independent catering operators. I also want to offer workers more social protection and I want more fair competition. As the President says, the introduction of the registered cash register system is not my competence, but that of the Minister of Finance. It is also legislation of the previous governments, not of this government. We just took that. The only thing I am asking for now, and I shall come back to this at the end of my speech, is that it should be made as simple as possible administratively as possible and so it should be kept under review to look at all the anomalies that are not realistic in practice. My colleague will make a proposal to the government there in the near future. There is, of course, consultation between Minister Van Overtveldt and myself as the Horeca Plan has been submitted to the government and those responsible for tax fraud and for social fraud. We now have a final verdict from the Council of State. I would nevertheless like to support my colleague, Mr Van Overtveldt, who has made a very clear communication, in particular that for the current target group, the target group that was foreseen, nothing changes in terms of the original timing. By 31 December 2015, the original target group shall have an active registered cash register system. That's the deal. In the meantime, 21,203 farms have been registered. Since then, many establishments have also been actively and successfully using a white box. I asked for the figures yesterday: more than 7,000 farms are already working with a cash register. I don't want to abandon those people either. That does not seem to me to be insignificant! With regard to the delays in the installation of cashier systems, since a large number of operations are reacting only now, among other things because some horeca federations call on them not to buy a cashier system before the end of 2015... I would also like to place a number of catering organizations on their responsibilities in this area, because they are constantly creating confusion among their own members. It is impossible for most distributors to still satisfy everyone before the end of 2015. I have warned for several years that the catering operators should not wait until the very last moment to register and apply for a cash register. Where appropriate, a bottleneck will be created, in which the installers of the cash registers will no longer be able to follow. For me, the priority is to implement the accompanying measures included in the Horeca Plan, which were approved by the government in July 2015. I would like to point out that there is a government-approved catering plan and that I no longer wish to question these accompanying measures. They're needed, with or without a white register. Over the last few months, I have worked hard with my colleagues in the federal government, Mr Peeters, Mr Van Overtveldt and Mrs De Block to implement the plan. I do not foresee any delays in this matter. I will not list all the measures. The occasional work has already been introduced. The flexi jobs will be approved by the committee tomorrow.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic247x.u56	They will be approved in plenary.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic247x.u57	Excuse me, they will be approved in plenary. As soon as they appear in the Belgian Official Journal, which is likely to happen on 1 December 2015, they will join. The same applies to overtime measures. The government will therefore succeed in introducing the accompanying measures. That part of the agreement is being respected. However, it is a different question whether all the catering businesses will accept their share of the responsibility, which was originally laid down. In other words, we agreed that we would cross the river together. We did what we had to do. [[I can only say that today the original target group must ensure that it is in order by 1 January 2016.]] I also recall the fact that no sanctions are provided for until 31 December 2015. However, as from 1 January 2016, sanctions may follow. We can establish, but the sanctions are taken by the Justice Department and not immediately by the government. There is concern about the controls in the catering sector, which I can understand. As you know, I regularly explain the hospitality measures throughout the country. I hear the stories about the controls, too. However, I do not want to jump to conclusions. After all, a story always has two sides, which I also honestly communicate to the catering operators. From time to time the social inspection, part of the social inspection or an individual of that service will indeed go beyond his bounds in a verdict or deed. I am, however, 100% sure that a number of hotel and catering operators too, I know them a little bit and sometimes put their language, including on social media, on an occasional basis goes too far. So there has to be mutual respect. Mr Van Overtveldt and I, together with the administration, are currently preparing a charter to ensure that this is done smoothly from 2016 onwards and that a number of issues are very clearly agreed between the sector and the inspection services. We will carry out the checks according to the agreements set out in the charter. In practical terms, with regard to tax inspections, I refer you to the Minister of Finance. As far as social inspections are concerned, there will of course be checks on the compliance with social legislation on horeca establishments at high risk of social fraud. One of the indicators on which selection can be based is whether or not a cash register is present. Institutions that have registered late, if not at all, will have a greater risk of control. The charter will also include a check with respect for the proper functioning of the business and of the customers. I hope that stories of restaurants being laid down at noon and customers waiting an hour and a half for their meals can be eliminated. By the way, a white cash register also allows for better remote control, in which we have to be honest. We must give priority to structural problems and also make a distinction between errors made in good faith. We must try to ensure that the various inspection services cooperate as much as possible by organising one inspection at the same time. If there are problems, the inspectors have to coach problem-solving. Those who remain hard learners must be subject to clear sanctions. In my view, successive negative results should lead to clear sanctions. I have already said that there must be a mutual commitment between the sector and the inspection services. Earlier, however, I have already stated that I do not want to launch a witch hunt in the catering industry and I will stick with that. Mr de Lamotte, if an ASBL is subject to tax, it must install a cash register system if it regularly serves meals. If an ASBL is granted an exemption, such as for hospitals and schools, the ASBL is not obliged to install a cash register.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic247x.u58	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic247x.u59	It's the same thing.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic247x.u60	Small sports clubs that have a...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic247x.u61	Everyone knows that, following the ruling of the Council of State, we will now have a new approach in the discussion about serving food in sports clubs. I do not want to anticipate what Minister Van Overtveldt will propose or decide. However, when I hear what the Catering Federations want, they will steer it in the direction that there will be no more meals available in sports clubs. I'm not saying that, I'm saying what the catering federations themselves explain. I am not making any statements, that is the responsibility of my colleague. Especially in view of the current state of affairs, where Minister Van Overtveldt will have to make a proposal to the government in the coming days, it is not appropriate for me to make statements here where and where there should be no white register. I understand that in the next few weeks we will have more than enough hands to determine what a snack is, and what a light meal is, Mr Vercamer. You will probably be able to help us, because I have heard that you are a specialist in the matter. So at the moment I cannot say where and where no white register should be. The current legislation is, of course, well known. The Council of State destroyed part of it. My colleague will have to make a new proposal. However, this does not affect the accompanying measures that will be introduced.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic247x.u62	Mr President, I hear the reply of the Secretary of State. Of the 35,000 farms, only 7,000 will install the system. It is really a speed race to be recorded before 31 December. You're talking about creating a charter for inspection. It's an element. I wish I had more details about what you call remote control. I don't see how this can be done, unless you have examples to give me. I am also a little surprised about sports clubs. Soccer or division 1 basketball clubs, that's one thing. But for a small sports club in which volunteers work, there will be some problems. I mean, I didn't get an answer about the food trucks.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic247x.u63	Once again, Mr de Lamotte, you always ask me questions that the Minister of Finance has to answer. I'm not responsible for installing the white register. That's the Minister of Finance and the FPS Finance. Together with my fellow Members, I am responsible for drawing up the Horeca Plan, which provided for accompanying measures. I endorse these measures and support them in committee. I do not know what proposal my colleague from the finance department will make to the government. I also read the newspapers, as you read the newspapers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic247x.u64	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that the snacks have arrived in committee, without cash register!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic247x.u65	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. You have made it quite clear that we will also note that the aid measures are irrevocably linked to the introduction of the white register. Do I also hear you announce, for the current target group, that not everyone will be able to enter the white register on 31 December? It is your authority to perform as of January 1st, where there is no white register. That's your jurisdiction. You have the authority to inspect. So you have to act. Surely we will not tolerate the fact that on 1 January there will again be a group that does not enter the white register?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic247x.u66	There is a fundamental perception problem in this society and also in this Parliament. Whether or not there is a white cash register, there must be no black work and there must be no black circuits. So my social inspection will do the same thing in January as it is doing today: catching, suing and reporting undeclared work. So you shouldn't start with places where there's no white register. The FPS Treasury and the Treasury inspectors will find that there is no white checkout. If that has anything to do with practical matters, then I suppose we will be able to sort them out. If the supplier states that he has not been able to place the white checkout, because everyone waited until the last moment and he received too many orders at once, then there is force majeure. However, this does not give the restaurant or the catering business in question any power to work in black. The white cash register is a means to rule out undeclared work.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic247x.u67	We have agreed that I confirm that the aid measures are irrevocably linked to the introduction of the white checkout. That's my point. It is therefore not possible to benefit from the aid measures after 1 January, when the white register has not been introduced. You're calling for force majeure. They've known long enough, haven't they?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic247x.u68	Mr Vercamer, I will be clear. These support measures are inextricably linked to our demand for the sector to be informed. It's about the sector with the most undeclared work in our country. Almost 50% of the turnover has so far been in black. In this sector, fraud is most common, whether one likes to hear it or not. The objective is to eliminate the causes of undeclared work. The measures we are introducing help the hospitality stores to work white and maintain a white circuit. In addition, five years ago it was decided to introduce a white cash register to better control that. I will not remove the measures necessary to obtain official circuits and to be able to work officially, because at that time the means of control is not on the spot because of force majeure! That has nothing to do with that. I keep my appointments as Secretary of State who has co-signed the Horeca Plan and submitted it to the government. My measures, our measures, will be there. Furthermore, I do not prejudice what Mr Van Overtveldt says: the date for the white checkout stays 1 January 2016. The question you are asking here, Mr Vercamer, has been raised for several years. If everyone wants to install that cash register at the same time, the suppliers will get in trouble. That is why we have asked the catering industry to register and we have introduced several waves. However, the practice is that everyone, because there are no sanctions, waits until the last minute. That is the reality. Today seven thousand people are already working with that cash register, but according to the figures there should be much more. Those who have a cash register and are waiting to use them until 31 December are not sanctioned, as this is not provided for in the legislation. I think Mr Devla made that decision at the time.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic247x.u69	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, but I warn you about new kafka situations when you say that this sandwich is, not that sandwich. I know that bullshit. When you start, it'll all be pasta bars or whatever. Just put it in, and the whole thing will end. Hot pasta, cold pasta, what a hassle!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic247x.u70	Mr President, that is why I am saying that the current regime does not change anything. If a large group is now joined by the decision of the Council of State, transitional measures will have to be taken to get them into the system as well. However, let us start with the people who had to get into the system so that they could do so effectively, in the context of fair competition. It is not possible to deal with all those who have a white register that a large proportion of their fellow Members should not have it because of a ruling by the Council of State. I'm against that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic247x.u71	No new kafka states or you're in trouble, I tell you. I know what that is.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic247x.u72	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, I am not used to coming to your committee. I would like to take this opportunity, even if you are not in charge of fiscal competence, to raise your awareness of the situation of sports clubs. In my view, they should not be placed in the same category, but this may require a change in legislation. It would be a shame for all those who train young people in our country. Hot dogs or hamburgers are only sold on Saturdays or Sundays. It would be regrettable to put them in the same category. I know that this is not within your competence, but it is good that you are aware. I'm sure where you are, at the sea, you're paying attention to sports clubs. I'm coming to my question. In June, in its annual report, the Clandestin Immigrant Workers' Organisation presented an overwhelming assessment of the difficulties faced by irregular workers in enforcing their rights. In fact, in ten years, of the one hundred and two complaints brought by this organization to the Social Law Control, only six cases (a little less than ten per cent) allowed the workers to recover their money. While it is true that of these complaints, twenty-one are still pending and nineteen have not been at the end of the judicial process, the finding remains instructive. In other words, in 2014, the Organization recorded the theft, by unscrupulous employers, of €71,282.65 but was only able to recover €4,534.24, even though, according to the Organization, this amount represents, compared to the exploitation carried out by some fraudulent employers, not even the tip of the iceberg, but the thin layer of snow that covers it. During the previous legislature, we had been particularly active in the fight against the exploitation of illegal residents. In particular, we had adopted the law of 11 February 2013 which provides for sanctions against unscrupulous employers and the obligation to pay workers in an irregular situation any unpaid wages. Nevertheless, even if the situation improves, it must be noted that abuses persist and that new coordinated, adequate and cross-cutting responses must be provided. Mr Secretary of State, what measures are you going to put in place to combat these farms? Have you been able to make an initial assessment of this 2013 law providing for sanctions and measures against employers of illegally staying third-country nationals? If so, what are your conclusions?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic247x.u73	Mr Kir, the SPF Emploi, Travail et Concertation sociale, and in particular its inspection service, has in the past received complaints from the ASBL OR.C.A concerning the non-payment of arrears of remuneration to workers who were not allowed to stay in Belgium. This would be one hundred and two complaints, of which only six would have resulted in positive follow-up following the intervention of the Control of Social Laws (CLS). In its activity report, the ASBL itself describes the procedure to be followed in the event of a complaint to the CLS and also mentions what problems the CLS has encountered in completing these files. Evidence of occupation is particularly difficult to provide, and the same is sometimes true for physical evidence (e.g. photos) attached at the time of filing the complaint. It is up to the CLS to prove that these workers were actually employed at work. The elements of any employment contract are always work, remuneration and a relationship of subordination to an employer. Following the Act of 11 February 2013, the following measures were taken. A special cooperation agreement was concluded in 2015 between the Office of Foreigners, the CLS and the ASBL OR.C.A for ill-informed or uninformed workers who want to cooperate or file a complaint during their occupation at work, in order to allow the CLS to intervene during this period. This provides obvious evidence of occupation at work. It is thus possible to apply article 7 of the Act of 11 February 2013 concerning the payment of arrears of remuneration for three months. This method is not always easy to use, since the worker concerned is always subject to the special removal measures imposed by the Office for Foreigners, which can only be carried out after the worker has been paid. However, the CLS pays much more attention to the payment of compensation for those who have been misinformed, who have not filed a complaint but were present during the review. On this point, instructions have already been given not only to CLS inspectors, but also to other inspection services that can observe the same problem. As for the declarations of this occupation to social security, the other competent services are actively seeking solutions. However, it is not obvious to register workers in our social security system who do not have a valid residence permit. Given the sensitive nature of the issue of the occupation of ill-informed or uninformed workers and the sanctions their employer may face, this is an aspect of the fight against social fraud that deserves special attention from all relevant actors. Detection of this type of activity while respecting workers' rights does not seem to be too difficult. However, practice demonstrates that a wide range of other inspection techniques must be deployed to achieve these objectives. The Act of 11 February 2013 has recently entered into force. That is why the first results are only known now. They seem to provide a satisfactory answer to the many questions that exploited workers and their representatives are asking themselves. I am convinced that the inspection services will do their utmost to guarantee their rights in a more consistent and satisfactory manner and will ensure that these workers, like any other, receive the remuneration to which they are entitled. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that the fight against human trafficking and the exploitation of human beings is the responsibility of the entire government. As you know, the approach to the fight against trafficking in human beings is based on the action plan of the Minister of Justice with whom we work loyally.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic247x.u74	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your answers. That said, this is not an obvious case since it is about people in an irregular situation. The whole question is therefore to communicate the information correctly. The deal you talked about between your services, the ORCA. and does the Office of Foreigners provide for a form of information campaign? If so, how do you envisage it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic247x.u75	Mr Kir, that is not yet on the agenda, but we will discuss it in the coming weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic247x.u76	Mr Secretary of State, this too is an old question, which was put before the recess. You have already explained why we are only in need of the answer today, for which, by the way, we fully understand. I would like to come back briefly to the principle of joint and several liability for social and tax debts, which has been in force for several years in the construction sector. The idea is fine. By making other parties in the chain liable for compliance with the legislation, fraudulent constructions can be dealt with more easily. However, joint and several liability must not be absolute. Where one of the parties concerned is in good faith and can be shown to be in good faith, that party must be free from joint and several liability. The Constitutional Court explicitly included that good faith in its judgment of 8 May 2014. I have a specific question. Does the RSZ take into account that good faith in the application of joint and several liability for social debts? To what extent? Do you have any figures on this?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic247x.u77	Mr Raskin, if you had asked your question in writing, you would have already had an answer. Anyway, it's your right to ask a question orally. I will therefore give a comprehensive answer. The joint and several liability referred to in the judgment of the Constitutional Court of 8 May 2014 may be instituted if the managers of a company have at least three bankruptcies with RSZ debts in five years. It is a joint and several liability contained in the Code of Companies. In order to apply joint and several liability, an action must be brought before the court. It will decide whether the conditions, i.e. three bankruptcies with RSZ debt, are fulfilled. The court can therefore determine whether these are fraudulent bankruptcies. Article 265 (2) of the Company Code provides that the manager may be held jointly and severally liable for all or part of the social debts. It is again the judge who will determine the extent of joint and several liability. In determining the extent of joint and several liability, he may, I stress, take account of the good faith of the manager. The scope of the judgment is clear. This concerns a possible joint and several liability in the event of successive bankruptcies. The Constitutional Court has stated nowhere that good faith would lead to the non-application of joint and several liability. Good faith is thus raised only when determining the extent of joint and several liability. In this case too, it is by no means absolute. It's still a judge's decision. Secondly, the judgment of the Constitutional Court referred to cannot be applied to Article 30a of the RSZ Act, i.e. social debts in the construction sector. Article 30a (3) also refers to joint and several liability, but it is of a very different order. Here is the client-contractor who relies on a contractor-subcontractor who has social debts at the time of conclusion of the contract, jointly and severally liable for the debts, unless he correctly complies with his retention obligation. The amount of joint and several liability is expressly determined, i.e. limited to the total price of the works without VAT. In that case, there is no room for the court to rule on the extent of joint and several liability, let alone to take account of any good faith in determining the extent of the liability. That's the difference. Moreover, Article 30a is of public policy, which implies that contractors who are of good faith can also be addressed. The joint and several liability referred to in Article 30a shall not be removed by good faith or error. This is confirmed by the ruling of the Court of Justice. Only in cases of insurmountable error would Article 30a not apply. Such insurmountable error implies that it must be attributed to a strange cause which cannot be attributed to the one calling upon it, so that the probability of doing so is very low. In short, joint and several liability under Article 30a is a liability laid down by law of public policy, which must be applied to any client/contractor who invokes a co-contractor with social debts at the time of conclusion of the contract. The good faith of that contractor or contractor cannot change the application of that principle. Mr Raskin, it is clear that there are two different areas of application which cannot be dealt with in the same way. Since the extent of joint and several liability is not determined by the court, good faith cannot be applied at all in the case of joint and several liability under Article 30a. I would also like to point out that joint and several liability for social and tax debts is not absolute. Mechanisms are in place to protect bona fide contractors and you can check the relevant list on the websites of the RSZ and the FPS Finance Agency and a retention obligation at the time of payment of the invoices. In addition, we are working on an adjustment of subsidiary joint and several liability for clients in which bona fide clients can also be protected. This is done on the basis of a unanimous opinion from the NAR. Mr Raskin, we must encourage contractors to ban fraudulent subcontractors. If we want to win the fight against social fraud and dumping, we must put an end to practices that lead to distortions of competition, disloyal competition and more social and fiscal fraud. The obligation of retention and the associated joint and several liability in social and tax debts are an important weapon for this.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic247x.u78	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your detailed reply. You also gave a lot of technical references to the legislation in force. Allow me to take a quiet look at that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic247x.u79	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, I have a question about the duration of the postings in our country. Foreign employers temporarily send workers to Belgium to perform employment services. We are talking about postings. The employer shall, where appropriate, supplement some of the information contained in his Limosa declaration, including the duration of the secondment. An early termination of the secondment should also be indicated. I have already asked you a written question in which I asked you about the duration of the postings to Belgium over the last five years. Your answer was that those detailed data are not available. What is the reason why such data are not available, although they must be entered in the Limosa declaration? How come they can't be communicated? I have another similar question concerning the number of working days of workers posted to Belgium. Mr Secretary of State, the framework is the same. However, the duration of the secondment should not be confused with the number of working days performed by the posted worker. There is no information on this in the Limosa declaration. I have two specific questions. Firstly, how can inspection services verify how many working days a posted worker performs in our country? Secondly, the posted worker may, of course, also be working part-time in the country of origin. In that case, it is impossible for him to be employed in full-time employment here in the country. It would therefore be interesting if the posted worker had a written document indicating the actual employment information from his country of origin. How do you feel about that idea? My third question concerns the request for foreign documents by the inspection services. The foreign employer who sends workers here shall be exempt for a period of 12 months from drawing up and keeping the individual accounts and a pay statement, to the extent that he keeps comparable documents from the country of origin at the disposal of those inspection services at the request of the inspection services. At the end of the secondment, the employer shall be obliged, for a period of two years, to send a copy of the corresponding foreign documents to the inspection services, if they so request. I have two specific questions. Not all foreign employers are willing to cooperate with our national inspection services. Is it considered an infringement if an employer does not deliver the requested social documents? What happens to the companies that refuse to accept the request of our inspection services? Are they treated differently than companies that work together? Do they end up on a blacklist? Are they the subject of additional checks? Finally, my fourth question concerns the European database to help the social security institutions in the European Union to exchange information more quickly and securely. The database is still not operational. This means that exchanges between foreign social security institutions and Belgian inspection services still have to be carried out by post. During the advisory committee last week, you indicated that this was a major loss. The European database was one of the objectives of your policy statement, but for the time being this objective remains unfulfilled. I have two specific questions. Where's the shoe wringing? What is preventing the European database from becoming operational? What initiatives are you planning to take to increase pressure at European level? With what arguments will you try to convince your fellow Members of the need for the database?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic247x.u80	Mr Raskin, I cannot solve everything in one year's time, especially when it comes to European affairs. You know that, too. However, I can increase the pressure.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic247x.u81	I look forward to hearing your arguments.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic247x.u82	I can increase the pressure, and that's what I'm doing. That's obvious. I will answer your first two questions as follows. The detailed data are indeed not readily available. The number of working days is indeed not available, but the estimated period of the probable duration of employment. So that's an indication. The exact numbers are not known, because the Limosa notification is an electronic declaration, counted per person, but the same person may be subject to multiple notifications and may be counted several times. There are two types of employment: a posting of an employee or an employee who is permanently employed in several countries, unless a substantial part is in Belgium. Limosa therefore only mentions the estimated period of employment. Unlike Dimona, which indicates the number of effective days, Limosa is just an approach. Mr Raskin, I can conclude that the period reported can be much wider than the period actually worked. The number of secondments is not merely a composition of the duration specified in the Limosa declarations. At present, verification is only possible on the basis of the number of days performed. In the construction and meat sectors, presence registration offers an additional indication. This can be done through on-the-spot checks and in cooperation with the user or employer of the sending State. The demand for an additional written document from the sender state is not at issue, because then the same problem will arise as it already exists today. We would then be accused of the possible obstacle to free movement in the European Union. Now I come to your question about the lack of cooperation between foreign workers and national inspection services. The following cases are considered to be an infringement: failure to submit a pay slip, Article 101, failure to submit an individual account, Article 187, and an obstacle to supervision, Article 209. In the absence of information, the IMI system, the International Market Information System, is used. This includes the information of the foreign inspection services and is more effective than the preparation of a report. If there is no cooperation from a foreign inspection service, we will have a report drawn up for obstruction of supervision. The most severe sanction is level 4, which is a penalty of EUR 600 to 6 000 and possibly a prison sentence of 6 months to 3 years or an administrative fine of EUR 300 to 3 000. You ask if there are any measures against recidivism. Yeah, we're doing extra checks. These companies are monitored by the inspection as judicial authorities and are subject to the most severe sanctions in case of prosecution and they are blacklisted, only internally at TSW for recurrent foreign employers. The solutions we are working on to tackle cross-border social fraud have been the following for a year. At national level, as you have seen, round tables have been launched and even completed, for example in the construction sector. These include several measures. So there's the evaluation of Limosa. There is a mention of Limosa's contact details and contacts. The period of validity of the Limosa notification shall be limited to a maximum of six months and a new application shall then be submitted. And there is the realization of the access to Limosa by the tax authorities. There will also be improved cross-border cooperation and data exchange, including by setting up and putting on track joint controls with foreign inspection services. We have made a Benelux declaration at Benelux level on 23 September, which is a step towards greater European cooperation. A Benelux Plus is also under way, and negotiations are currently under way with Germany on a treaty. There is also a need to take steps towards the European Union and I can tell you, Mr Raskin, that I was in Luxembourg last Monday at a European summit of the Ministers for Employment and Social Affairs and that Mrs Thyssen herself asked me to have a meeting with her as soon as possible to do everything possible to make the EESSI operational, among other things. It is the aim, as I announced a year ago, and I am doing so, not against but together with the European Union, to take logical and effective measures. We must also be realistic, we must not call each other Liesbeth or hide things. If I have to get things going in Europe with Marianne Thijssen and with Kris Peeters, then I can't do that from today to tomorrow. We will continue to work on this and do everything possible to make progress. I would just like to point out that the round table of construction has proposed a number of measures, not all of which were foreign measures. In particular, four measures which could be taken in the Benelux countries, about ten which had to be taken at European level and twenty-six which could be decided at national level. The latter can be taken quickly, but the European will require consultation and persuasion.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic247x.u83	Mr President, very briefly about the duration of the secondments. Improve me if I'm wrong, but I hear you saying that that data is not just available. Allow me to find it strange that detailed information on the duration of postings is not available, while employers must indicate the duration in the Limosa declaration. The data are there and are kept up to date, but apparently there are technical arguments that make it impossible or difficult to do so. We need to see if we can't solve that. I do not want to lose you where you say we should negotiate the broad story with Europe and not act solo smartly. The previous legislature has shown that this was not always the best way forward, so I support you in that. It is important, however, to continue to encourage you from this committee to take action with my fellow Members. I also hear you say that the round table on construction has set out a number of measures that we can take at national level. We have always been in favour of looking not only at Europe but also at our own doorstep. My next question is about that, among other things. You are talking about possibly violating the EU directive by asking for an additional certificate for posted workers, in order to better map it. That is perhaps a justified fear, Mr Secretary of State. As a result, I would like to call on you to continue the debate at European level. It must be our ambition to reform the existing directive here and there.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic247x.u84	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, my question is a little similar to that of my predecessor. A year after the launch of your action plan, I would like to increase the pressure a little bit and see where you stand on a number of issues. This is an important issue, that of the bogus self-employed. I will merge the two questions I tabled on this issue. These are two different points in your action plan which I have taken as a basis for my questions. For my first question, please refer to page 37 of your Action Plan, Action Line 13. In that you yourself say that in recent years, and perhaps a little longer, the phenomenon of false self-employment has expanded in our country. Co-operative companies are set up by foreign, especially Bulgarian and Romanian, entrepreneurs, who use helpers and cooperating partners: all so-called self-employed who are in fact employees. It is important that proper monitoring can be carried out. The number of incoming A1 declarations has increased enormously in recent years, which does not make it easier to control them. My first question is therefore whether these forms, the A1 declarations, can all be checked by the supervisory services of the RSZV. In fact, the workload and problems have only increased in recent years. Secondly, what means do these services have to sanction if it turns out that the people concerned are indeed false substances which are de facto workers here? Is this merely a requalification as an employee or are there other sanctions possible? My third point was already raised in the previous question. There is, of course, the European regulations that prevent this country from carrying out the detection and sanctioning of false self-employment more effectively. What initiatives are being taken vis-à-vis the European Union? How do you put the pressure on it to make things waterproof? Fourthly, how many bogus self-employed people have been sanctioned in recent years? With whom has the status of self-employed already been effectively withdrawn? Finally, how many files have been transferred to the Labour Auditorate in the last two years? A further question concerns the bogus self-employed and the fight against social fraud and social dumping. In your Action Plan Fighting social fraud and social dumping, we read that the RSVZ will continue the fight against questionable registrations as a self-employed person in 2015. I will not read out this whole point in your action plan, but I would like to know how these inspection services are supported, how the communication between the various inspection services is going. Is regulation necessary so that they can do their job? Specifically, what have you done over the past year to facilitate inspection services in terms of sanctions imposed and the recovery of amounts resulting from fraud so that they can achieve results? I hope I can get some clarity from you on this one.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic247x.u85	Mr President, Mrs Pas, in terms of fictional and bogus self-employment, my colleague Borsus, amongst others, is responsible for self-employed and SMEs, and I myself have three problems. The first concerns fictitious connections and the second concerns fraudulent A1 tests. A third problem concerns the real false self-employment, where workers are actually employed under the authority of an employer, but are registered as self-employed. This is usually done to reduce labour costs. On your first question, on sanctions, the following. The fight against fictitious affiliations is conducted through a procedure between the social insurance funds and the RSVZ, which is therefore the responsibility of Mr Borsus. When a starting self-employed person, a European or non-Belg, indicates that he wishes to register with the municipality on the basis of his independent professional activity, a parallel investigation is initiated at the RSVZ. This procedure will check whether the person who joins himself as a self-employed person is actually engaged in a professional activity. If this is not the case, the connection shall be deleted by the RSVZ. If the person concerned is deleted, an administrative penalty may be imposed. This fine was already doubled during the first year of this legislature to twice the minimum quarterly contribution of a self-employed person in main occupation. In 2014, 855 administrative fine cases were dealt with, with 56 administrative fines being imposed. The total amount of administrative fines imposed was EUR 20 124.11. The RSVZ works closely with the inspection services to identify fraudulent constructions on the site. In the fight to prevent abuse of the social status, the RSVZ has different information flows to, among others, the RSZ, the DVZ, Famifed and the POD MI. Especially the external cooperation with Famifed and the POD MI is very recent. The aim of cooperation is to combat the problem of recovery. With regard to your second question on cooperation with the tax authorities, the inspection services of the RSVZ have the possibility to request the tax data of approved companies within specific files. For more information, however, I must refer you to my colleague Mr Borsus and Mr Van Overtveldt. Your third question concerned checking the authenticity of the A1 documents by the RSVZ. In fact, Mrs Pas, that is what you are referring to at the heart of the problem. Social inspection services face the greatest difficulties in checking the authenticity of a so-called A1 document. In the Fitzwilliam and Banks cases, the Court of Justice confirmed that the A1 document creates a presumption that an employee or self-employed person is a member of the social security system of the home Member State. That's a hunch. This document shall be legally binding on the competent institution of the Member State in which the person concerned is employed. However, this in itself is not sufficient to determine whether there is an effective posting. Although the European Commission encourages the use of the A1 form before the start of the posting, some flexibility is needed in cases where this is not possible. In this context, all Member States are obliged to respect the principle of loyal cooperation. This means that a body providing such a document must examine the circumstances of the posting, and on that basis it ensures that the information contained in the PD A1 form is correct. However, this cooperation is not always going well. In the framework of the Social Dumping Action Plan, the social inspection services, including the RSVZ, were asked to make better use of the existing European conciliation procedure for disputes concerning A1 attestations. In the case of specific questions on the validity of A1 files, it is requested to transfer these files so that the conciliation procedure can be continued. This procedure has not been applied sufficiently in the past, and I am now expressing it very lightly. I'll correct it, she wasn't applied. When I arrived, I found that there was no file pending for possible misuse of A1 documents in the European conciliation procedure. I must add, however, that when a file submitted becomes the subject of a lawsuit, this file automatically lapses. I instructed my services from the time I arrived to make use of the conciliation procedure. We are convinced that the European A1 test procedure needs to be radically reformed in order to increase its effectiveness, speed and reliability. I shall be very brief. My predecessor, Mr Crombez, wanted to fight against Europe by getting the anti-abuse clause that is here but has never been applied. Never. Why? Because there's a discussion with Europe. I do not intend to get Parliament to adopt laws that we can never use because there is a discussion with Europe. I am trying to convince the European colleague, Mrs Thyssen, who happens to be a fellow countryman, to rework the procedure. It is prepared to do so. As I said to Mr Raskin, we also call for the rapid implementation of the EESSI system for the electronic exchange of social security information, which is currently being developed and will facilitate the exchange of documents. You also ask me what steps are to be taken with regard to bogus self-employed workers. The problem you are raising is not unknown to us, which is why we have included it in our action plan. However, such investigations require very substantial investment of time and resources. When the inspection services of the RSZ, the RSVZ or the SI are confronted with a state of bogus self-employment, they requalify the employment relationship. The remuneration of the employees concerned will then be paid to the RSZ to calculate and recover the social security contributions. If there is a case of serious fraud concerning false self-employment, a report is sent to the judicial authorities. Your fifth question concerns my attitude towards Europe with regard to the free movement of services and false self-employment. I've already made that clear. At European level, the case is about anti-abuse. We do not know whether the European Court will agree with us at some point, such as the Limosa notification obligation. In this case, we were allowed to do it in sectors sensitive to fraud, if it was determined in advance what the sectors sensitive to fraud are. That was a breakthrough. Maybe we will get such a ruling, but that is, of course, to wait. That is why I have decided to continue the procedure. After all, I will honestly admit, Mrs Pas, that I intended to stop them first, because it is a procedure on something which is not being used anyway and in which we would probably not be right. That's fighting windmills. However, I suddenly had a light on my mind, which led me to believe that perhaps we would still have a weapon in the hands of the Court of Justice to act in fraud cases. We let that procedure go. Mrs Thyssen is also aware of this. In fact, I believe that in December it will propose its action plan against undeclared work. I believe that we will be able to clarify this in the coming weeks. I also want to monitor the A1 procedure to indicate that this procedure is not working. I would like to make a final comment on the number of sanctions in the case of bogus self-employment in the last three years and the number of files in the employment audit. Minister Borsus is also responsible for the control of bogus self-employment. The Social Inspectorate also controls bogus self-employed and bogus workers. In the event of serious fraud, a pv is sent to the judicial authorities. Moreover, an investigation may involve several bogus self-employed and bogus workers. I've got the numbers. In 2013, there were 56 controls on 290 employees. In 2014, 80 controls were carried out on 1178 employees. Until 30 September 2015, 45 controls were carried out on 478 employees. In 2013, there was a regularisation of EUR 1 873 685. In 2014, this amounted to EUR 12 761 386. Apparently, there were a number of larger files before that year. Until 30 September 2015, it is about 2 761 913 euros. 7 minutes were prepared in 2013. In 2014 there were 11 and until now, so in 2015, 7 minutes were written.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic247x.u86	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your detailed reply. As far as the social insurance funds and the like are concerned, I will certainly go to your colleague Borsus. He's got to have a better view of that anyway. They often register self-employed helpers who are actually employees in practice. However, one can only have one independent helper. Social insurance funds must have a clear view of whether or not to honour that provision. This would allow targeted checks to be carried out. As far as that part is concerned, I will certainly ask your colleague, Mr Borsus, a number of further questions. A second point concerns the A1 forms. The essence of the problem is that control can only be carried out on the basis of the cooperation of the other Member States, and that is where the shoe is crumbling. If they don't want to come along, one can't control it in a targeted way. I ask you to use as much resources as possible and to make it as easy as possible for the inspectors. One idea I'd like to give you is this. Is it possible to require the co-operative partners to be published in the Belgian Official Journal? Now people don't even know who they are and they're looking in the dark. The services are already struggling and cannot possibly check all the A1 forms. This would at least allow them to conduct their investigations as focused as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic247x.u87	That is an interesting suggestion, Minister. Will you consider this?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic247x.u88	Yes, I will.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic247x.u89	Mr Secretary of State, I would like to return to the remarkable proposal made by Mr Philipsen, a top BBI officer, a few weeks ago. He called for the creation of a single large anti-fraud service. Today, the various inspections operate too much side by side, while large cases are often not limited to one type of fraud. You immediately showed yourself enthusiastic on Twitter. You agreed with the top man and suggested you just do that. In the following days, however, you seemed to return somewhat to your steps. You were only talking about strengthening coordination between the various inspections. Firstly, what is your precise position on the integration of the various inspection services into a single large fraud service? Secondly, there are many advantages to integration. A unified inspection service works more efficiently. Knowledge and resources are more easily exchanged. However, you seem to have doubts about that. In your opinion, it is uncertain whether a large fraud agency will be more efficient. Are you prepared to have that investigated? Thirdly, what concrete steps do you intend to take to strengthen coordination between social inspection services?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic247x.u90	Mr Secretary of State, tell me. Are you in favour of this or are you against it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic247x.u91	Mr President, you are also a tedious tweeter. Every now and then people don't read what they read. They then give an explanation to the tweet which is not right. I'll quote my tweet again. I hear the radio's top man pleading for something and tweeting the following. I'm quoting literally and I know very well what I tweeted. After all, I've thought ten times before I put the tweet in. Mr Raskin, I am not someone who tweets from his gut. I'm thinking. However, my spokesman does not always agree with me. Good cooperation between all inspection services pays off. I agree with that in advance." So it was written in advance. So we're in agreement with the top guy in the BBI. Just do it! Then I tweet that cooperation between inspection services pays off and I certainly agree with that. I didn't make a statement about the big agency in that tweet in any way. That is a pity for those who have read it. I have to admit, you are not the only one who would have read it differently. My spokesperson also thought it was there at first, but it wasn't. Good cooperation between the various inspection services, the social security institutions, the tax administration, the Crossroads Bank for Enterprise and the exchange of businesses through data mining and data matching pays to step up the fight against social and tax fraud. That is, by the way, literally stated in the coalition agreement. Immediately after I had sent the tweet and fulfilled my obligations for that day, I contacted Mr Philipsen to ask what exactly he meant by his proposal. I didn't have the details. I then first contacted Mr Van Overtveldt to see if we were on the same wavelength and would not make any contradictory statements, and to the top of the FPS Finances to know his opinion. When I got home, I looked at a reportage on the subject. I think the BBI's top man is making a proposal. By the way, he has said quite literally that he does so on his own behalf. Of course, I have heard Mr Van Overtveldt's official response clearly that the proposal is not in the coalition agreement and that it is a reflection of a top BBI man, who was not agreed with the minister or the administration, neither of the finance, nor of the social security, that aside, but not unimportant. We need to look at the proposal and examine it quietly, but it is very premature to decide which direction we are going to take. I am in favour of good cooperation, Mr Raskin. There is a ministerial committee on the fight against fraud on which all ministers sit with the various actors to see how we can optimise our fight and how we can proceed. However, I would just like to point out that the fight against social fraud is not the sole task of the social inspection services; they also have tasks relating to labour inspections, assigned to them by international agreements. By the way, I've heard the BBI's top man say that where there is social fraud, there's always tax fraud. I don't always agree with that. Both fraud phenomena are often linked, but not always. Let me give you the example of postings and false A1 documents. It is clearly about social fraud, but it is not always accompanied by tax fraud. It's possible, but it's not always like that. Social fraud is committed and social dumping is used to pay lower wages. That's not tax, but it's social fraud. That does not mean that we should not work together. A lot of cooperation protocols were concluded between the social inspection services and the BBI and there is cooperation between the social administrations and the FPS Finance to improve the exchange of information. With the creation of the SIOD in 2006, a legal co-operation structure was established for all social inspection services. This has already produced good results in the fight against social fraud and undeclared work. The SIOD ensures the coordination of the battle. The dissuade measures are carried out by the district itself. Not only is there cooperation with Finance and between the various social security institutions, Justice is also working very closely with us to achieve results. Moreover, I have noticed that an international observer recently mentioned our fight against trafficking in human beings, in terms of coordination and cooperation, as an example for the whole world. We sometimes pretend that the various services are not working together, and I have indeed heard a number of people pleading for an immediate merger to be a major inspection, but I only note that we are receiving acclaims at international level for the way in which we are organized. That's getting in the background. When a press release is sent stating that it is going very well and that it receives international acclaim, it usually does not reach the media. Strengthening the coordination of the SIOD is one of my priorities. I do believe that we should move towards an integrated, coordinated and professional approach. I believe that we should improve cooperation between the various services, that we should exchange information better, that we should have common methods and that tax and social inspection should cooperate more closely. I would also like to tell you that a few weeks ago I highlighted the hotline for fair competition, because I think it is absolutely necessary. I said immediately that, as far as I am concerned, the hotline could also be used for other forms of fraud, if one so wishes. It's open to that. So you understand me very well. If the BBI's top man wants to create a new structure with the aim of improving cooperation, then for me this cooperation with an exchange of data is paramount, before the possible structure given to it. I do not think that a change in the structure will solve all the problems. The mentality to work together and fight together is paramount. This is also the case in the coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic247x.u92	Mr Secretary of State, I understand that I fell off my chair with your spokesperson when I read your tweet.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic247x.u93	That's the art: sending a tweet from which everyone falls off his chair. It's only after reading him properly that everyone realizes what's been tweeted.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic247x.u94	I hear you say that working together pays off and that was actually the idea behind your tweet, of which I take note. That's obvious. You also refer to the coalition agreement. What's in there is also clear. In your opinion, research is also needed in this area, and we agree on this. You say that social fraud is not always accompanied by tax fraud, and I agree with that. Allow me the freedom to suggest that we examine first of all whether the further integration of the various social inspection services can be an interesting slope. Indeed, the SIOD is then the first step, but that does not mean that there should never be a next step. I'd like to give you that without obligation. Finally, I would like to refer briefly to the resolution on posted workers, which we adopted in plenary before the summer recess, with the report on the investigation. You are in favour of this, otherwise, of course, it would never have been in that resolution, and I am not naive about that. It is a question of examining the possibility of integration. The rest of this legislature will certainly be harassing you, in a figuratively sense. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic247x.u95	Mr Secretary of State, I asked questions earlier this year about the registration of construction sites. In doing so, I would like to assess your attitude towards a possible reduction in the threshold of attendance for construction yards of at least EUR 800 000. You said that this was a good thing, and you said that the limit could be much lower for you. In the meantime, we hear that there would be an agreement with the social partners to use this attendance on the construction sites from EUR 500 000. That is a good thing, especially in the area of cross-border fraud. What are the main conclusions of the evaluation carried out by the RSZ in July this year of the current system of attendance registration? That system has been in place since 1 April 2014. What are the strengths in this? In what areas can the system be improved? What other initiatives will you take with regard to the registration of construction sites? Are you considering lowering the threshold even further than EUR 500 000?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic247x.u96	Mrs Lanjri, I am not under any illusions that everyone agrees on the results of the round table of the construction sector, both trade unions and employers and the administration. However, there was one person at the table who wanted to go much further, and that was me. If it had been up to me, I would immediately have done a generalization of all the construction sites, because I believe that for proper control of all the yards it should be possible to identify who may be and who may not be. Each step forward is, of course, a step forward. I have also learned that things are going a little faster in the private sector than in politics, so at some point we must be able to identify ourselves with a compromise, especially if one is the only one who insists on the most far-reaching measure. If trade unions and employers, the so-called social dialogue, have an agreement, then we must cherish it and go further. An evaluation consists of three elements: quantitative and qualitative data from registration and improvement proposals. The most important conclusion is that the number of registrations in the period from 1 January to 19 June 2015, almost half a year, amounted to 9 million registrations. We must of course also realise that construction leave falls in July. This wasn't included. I believe that there is an annual registration debt of around EUR 15 to 18 million. This is impressive. Workshops are also registered for which registration is not mandatory. Some employers have already integrated this into their own system so that the threshold does not have to be verified each time. The tax advantage of overtime also plays a role here. In other words, one does more registrations than is actually necessary. I'm very happy about that. Secondly, the channels used. 57 % goes through the portal, 40 % calls on a web service (track and trace) and 3 % uses the gateway, the so-called QR code. In other words, all digital systems are widely used.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic247x.u97	It's a square that can be scanned. It's used on airline tickets, among other things.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic247x.u98	I know what you mean.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic247x.u99	How many more do I need to file a paper report?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic247x.u100	I can't!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic247x.u101	I warned you about that when I was in the government. I'm glad we did it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic247x.u102	Mr President, you have moved more than a pebble in that river. I am grateful to you for that, but I will continue to build on your pebbles. I'm almost on a few rocks. We will soon have 4 % cancellations and there are only 10 minutes in investigation for abuse. Out of a total of 9 million, that can count. Qualitative, we clearly establish that there is a better detection. I also believe that the Social Fraud Reporting Point will provide even better detection. Everyone was against it, but I think it will produce results. We are also getting a more targeted selection of targets through our judicial control, through data mining. We also have an instrument of predictive models, which allows us to calculate where the most serious risk cases are located. We also do better monitoring of foreign employers, employees and the self-employed. There's a bigger chance of getting caught. The number of findings of infringements or irregularities with a serious indication of social dumping practices increased by 13%. That's a confrontation with the data from C@W. There is an increase of 5% in positive findings in controlled companies. There is a better view of intervening subcontractors. There is an increase in the number of work and Limosa notifications. Their number has increased from 77 500 to 113 000 notifications. There is an increase in the quality of the RSZ data. I'll give you everything. There are also opportunities for temporary unemployment. You know from the reports of the 2014 RVA that we have noticed that the fight against abuses in the event of temporary unemployment was almost ruled out. If I am right, we came from 13 million to 1 million abuses in 2014. This has to do with better detection, linking the different data files and immediately detecting abuse of temporary unemployment. The new systems will almost exclude such abuse in the future. There are a number of improvements proposals. The design of C@W or check@work is organisation, safety and health at the yard. Its control poses practical problems. There's a staff application. As you know, according to the Welfare Act, registration is mandatory for all operators in the workplace, while, from the point of view of Article 30a of the RSZ Act, only persons performing real estate work are endorsed by the registration requirement. There is therefore a lack of clarity in this respect for suppliers of goods, architects and some civil servants. There is a need for clarity in this matter. We have therefore taken a number of decisions on the round table of the construction sector. Also in the field of material application, the RSZ law is wider than the conventional construction sector. The scope also applies, for example, to the cleaning and metal sectors. The contract according to the RSZ versus the workshop according to the welfare law. For the RSZ the value of the contract applies regardless of the location. For the Welfare Act, these are temporary or mobile construction sites where works are carried out for a total amount of 800 000 euros excluding VAT. There must also be an optimisation of registration. The general conclusion is, in fact, that the absolute added value for inspection services is increased by improved data quality, through increased efficiency and effectiveness in detection, selection, control and sanctioning of malicious and foreign persons and companies. We will also take other initiatives. We are also going to listen to the sighs of other sectors, asking for an attendance registration. We will discuss this with Mr Peeters, who is responsible for the welfare law. As I have already announced in the plan for fair competition in the construction sector, the threshold will be set at EUR 500 000 from 1 January. That's a first step. The aim is to go even lower in the long term and to ensure that even more construction sites are covered. The most important thing is that a phenomenal number of registrations take place in the construction sector. If it's okay, that's a good thing to say.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic247x.u103	Mr Secretary of State, if I had sat at the table, there would have been two of us who would have argued in favour of registering at all construction sites. It is also good that it is already happening in construction sites or places where it has not yet had to be done. That is a good thing, because it shows that the added value is recognised. Perhaps you can set up a pilot project with some of the companies that do so and ensure that they promote the system and explain why they do so on a voluntary basis. That is the best advertising: companies that do it, although they are not required, because they see many advantages in it. I think it would be even better if companies did it without being obliged to do so. You say that the benefits are known, but that there are certainly a number of points for improvement. I hope that these points can be further examined to see how these problems can be addressed, in cooperation with the social partners. You say there are 9 million registrations. Of course, that is a huge amount, but every time one appears on a yard there is also a registration. There are 10 minutes. Those ten minutes probably came through those records, when one sees when matching data that something is wrong; then one reacts. In itself that's not so bad, that's not much at all. However, if there are companies that do not register a part of their people, they are still with that group. It is therefore still necessary to send the on-the-spot inspection. It is all too easy to check it purely from behind the computer with data matching. After all, it is perfectly possible to have companies that participate in the registration and, so to speak, have 80% of their staff bathed, while it is necessary to establish that 20% of them are out there without being registered. It's mostly those people you have to fish for. I hope that you will continue to work on this, together with the inspection, because there is still a need to combat fraud. This system is good and has many advantages, but it is certainly not conclusive. Therefore, let us not stare blindly at those ten pvs. On the ground it can be seen that there may still be a number of cowboys among them. We must continue to monitor this, otherwise it will remain a purely administrative exercise. It's gotta be more than that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic247x.u104	Absolutely! I am also pleased that people of their own free will are doing something that is not mandatory. That fits pretty well with my belief in life. One has to make one's own choices, even if one is not obliged to do so. It also shows that we are on the same page, Mrs Lanjri. Systems that only serve to create beautiful statistics are not used for me. I believe that the rules should be followed, checked and, if necessary, sanctioned. In addition, sanctions must also be implemented. Those different steps need to be taken. Only then can we say that we have fought social fraud. You will no doubt know that I will also make an action plan on social fraud for 2016. The number of checks and the sectors concerned will be covered in detail.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic247x.u105	All other questions have been converted into written questions or postponed.
