ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic252x.u1	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Temmerman's 5175 is converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic252x.u2	Mr Minister, in 2016 and 2017, you are planning major investments to computerize the integrated police, i-Police. Originally, the aim was to finance the common modernisation of ICT through a new key of the second drive of the Road Safety Fund. There has been a great deal of reaction from the local authorities. There wasn't much willingness to do that. So you've given up on that. For many local authorities this is good news, but the question is how the modernisation will be financed. Indeed, many local areas absolutely need the renewal of ICT. In recent years, I received the response that people have been waiting for the development or renewal of a number of important projects, such as the GALOP staff management tool and the ISLP application. In addition, the new management of IT also announced the realisation of new projects, such as the interaction with the Internet platform and mobile work for police officers in the field. From the previous one, we can see that renewed ICT, and especially its integration, is really very important, hence my questions. Can you confirm, to be sure, that the financing of i-Police will no longer be done through a change in the key of the Road Safety Fund? In the meantime, has a solution been found for financing? Can you give an update on the ICT projects in the integrated police force currently running or possibly being implemented in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic252x.u3	Mr President, Mrs Temmerman, in reply to your first question, I can confirm to you that most of the time I have also confirmed what I said about the fact that the financing of i-Police will not be done through a change in the key in the second drive of the Road Safety Fund. I am also pleased to understand that police information management and the associated modern ICT are crucial for the proper functioning of the police and that you agree with that. After all, the foregoing is also my firm conviction. To date, we only have a beginning to think about the way in which the project is financed. We will get out of it, but the final solution that indicates how things will happen is not yet in my hands and is certainly not ready for communication. Allow me to put it that way. However, given its importance, I hope to be able to count on everyone's support when a political solution to funding will be presented. Nor should proper computerisation of the police be seen as an exclusive responsibility of the federal police. It is a responsibility of all and everyone. It is my firm belief that, given the activities of the local police in the development and maintenance of products, it is possible to optimise its costs. I repeat, however, that it is certainly not the intention to intervene in the existing funding of local police to finance i-Police. However, I understand that I need to clarify very quickly how we will finance this. After all, that will be the demand of many local authorities. I therefore commit myself to doing so quickly. With regard to the ongoing ICT projects, I would point out that giving a very exhaustive list of all ICT projects currently under way would provide a very large list of important and less important projects. The difficulty in modernising is just to maintain the current systems, adapt existing systems to the current legal and operational requirements, and at the same time prepare and implement new projects. It has to be done with the same experts. Nevertheless, I will give an overview of the ongoing modernisation projects. The first important initiative is the interactive web platform, which has been operational since mid-2013. During 2014 we already migrated most of the police zones to that new web platform. Since April 2015, the federal police have also switched to that platform. That's a new web platform. The initiatives for changing working conditions were launched in the course of 2013 in cooperation with the services of the Prime Minister's Chancellery, where the new cooperation platform was installed. The necessary modernisation adjustments were introduced in 2014 to allow the use of a new technology. In order to provide these services to the local police, the necessary approvals and a decision of the Council of Ministers are required. A positive decision by the Council of Ministers is expected in the near future. Subsequently, a framework contract for services can be signed by the Chancery to the integrated police. The first services are then offered federally and locally in the months of October and November 2015. Further operationalisation of local police forces can follow in autumn 2015. What was it about? It was about the fact that, by auditing the software used by the police, we found that a whole range of software, including local police, is actually pirate software. Versions were not followed and their own versions were installed. We have made a global agreement with Microsoft to equalize all software. This has happened and has already been approved by the government so that we can now roll out these services. The technology for mobile work also became operational during the same period. The decision of the Council of Ministers was also necessary for the delivery of this service to the local police. That's a little more complex because it's about changing both federal and local systems. The Council of Ministers has taken the decision and we are now in the process of rolling it out so that the local areas that want to respond to it can also use mobile work. The intelligent policing is a priority for the integrated police. I also believe that we absolutely need to work to ensure the performance of police forces and to meet the challenges of the future. If police zones want to work together, for example to put together night patrols, it is not so easy to print records from one zone to another. The intelligent policing is really necessary. As indicated above, a solution to the financing needs to be found. I will make a proposal to that effect in the near future. A vision was also developed for the HRM and for logistics information management as regards the current staff application used by the services. The impact of the business cases and the possible solutions are currently being considered. There is certainly progress. A number of administrative obstacles have already been removed and the obstacle that remains to be overcome is funding. As has already been said, I will make a proposal for this shortly.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic252x.u4	Mr President, Minister, it is clear that these matters must be centralised. One of the problems is effective that otherwise everyone starts working with and in their own system and develops a number of things themselves, in good faith, as is the case now, causing communication problems. We must, above all, avoid that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic252x.u5	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Dedry's 4555 will be converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Question No 5294 and Question No 5294 Mrs Schepmans' 5323 will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic252x.u6	Minister, a report recently published by the British Institute Chatham House points to the vulnerability of the nuclear industry to cyber attacks. For this study group, the nuclear sector as a whole would be lagging behind in the prevention of technological risk and would be a particularly vulnerable target in the face of more widespread and sophisticated cybercrime. While we should not draw too hasty conclusions from such studies on our own nuclear power plants, this raises legitimate questions. The Institute believes that nuclear power plants "lack of preparedness to deal with a cybersecurity emergency in a large-scale incident and would find it difficult to coordinate an adequate response". In order to explain this situation, the report refers to insufficient funding for prevention, a lack of training, a lack of regulatory standards and a culture of cybersecurity. The report also refers to the increasing use of digital technology in power plant operating systems and the use of low-cost but piracy-prone software. I would therefore like to ask you about the preparation of Belgian nuclear power plants for such threats. What do you think is the degree of vulnerability of our nuclear power plants to cyberattacks and the effectiveness of the protective device to deal with them? Although measures are being taken, notably in the context of the cybersecurity strategy adopted since 2012 and the opening of the Belgian Cybersecurity Centre, I would like to know whether specific initiatives are being taken to protect our nuclear power plants? In this regard, do you believe that additional budgetary resources should be released as part of this strategy?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic252x.u7	Mr President, Chatham House, a British think tank, published a study a few days ago on the vulnerability of nuclear power plants to cyber attacks. The Institute believes that nuclear power plants "failed to respond to a cybersecurity emergency in a large-scale incident and would find it difficult to coordinate an adequate response". What about the risk at our seven plants? What preventive measures have you put in place with regard to the cybersecurity of our power plants? The study also notes the increasing use of digital technology in power plant operating systems. What exactly is the situation? If this growth is confirmed, what are the operators' obligations with regard to the precautionary measures to be taken to counter computer piracy? What about the use of software? What steps have you taken to ensure that operators commit themselves to do everything possible to protect themselves from such attacks? Minister, I would finally like to know what political lessons you learn from this report? Thank you for the clarification you can give us.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic252x.u8	The Chatham House report undoubtedly deals with a sensitive and topical issue. It should be stressed that the situation differs from one European country to another and that the protection of Belgian nuclear power plants against cyberattacks has already been thoroughly audited in the context of the 2011 resistance tests. As you may recall, Belgium decided at the time to extend the scope of these tests of resistance to events related to human activity, including cyberattacks. The experts then checked the risks associated with the various types of cyberattacks and examined whether hackers were able to take control of a nuclear power plant. The results show that a cyber attack on a Belgian power plant would not lead to a loss of safety function, in particular due to the fact that reactor control and protection systems are separated from the computer networks of the power plant and the company. In addition, almost all reactor control and protection systems use technology that is invulnerable to cyberattacks. Nevertheless, all parties concerned are aware that these resistance tests were only a snapshot and that continuous monitoring of cybersecurity is essential in view of the rapid and constant evolution in this area. Furthermore, it should be borne in mind that the modernization of the computer systems of power stations increases their vulnerability and that new "malware" are regularly developed to tackle industrial systems such as Scada (supervisory control and data acquisition). Belgium is closely monitoring developments in this area and will continue to take the necessary initiatives to ensure that its systems are adequately protected. In any event, with the law of 30 March 2011 and the Royal Decree of 17 October 2011, Belgium has specific regulations on the physical protection of nuclear power plants and the protection of classified and categorised information, which organises in particular the physical protection measures used to protect nuclear power plants. Under these regulations, which are an essential part of an effective cybersecurity policy, the operator is responsible for the physical protection of its nuclear power plants. The Federal Nuclear Control Agency (FCAC) ensures compliance with these regulations. Finally, Belgium is also involved in the development of various national and international cyber security initiatives. For example, our country participates in various working groups within the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) to develop specific recommendations on cybersecurity in the nuclear sector. Follow-up to this problem is therefore ensured.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic252x.u9	Minister, thank you for these reassuring answers. It may also be necessary to check whether the Federal Nuclear Control Agency is well prepared against cyberattacks. This could explain how hackers changed legal opinions, etc. It was a joke. We'll talk about it again.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic252x.u10	Minister, thank you for your answer. I understand that on the reactor control side, in your opinion, everything is armored, but I am less certain of your response to a possible attack on the power source of the facility that would cause a power cut. What would happen if hackers attacked the power plant's basic power supply? I would like you to take the time to check if this has not yet been done. Indeed, this risk is also pointed out in the study. It is not only the attack on the reactor itself but on the supply of the premises, rooms that have to deal with the situation, especially in the event of a simple power cut. I don't know if you have any more information to share with us now or in the future. Moreover, we must remain attentive to the evolution, as you said, of the turns of these cyberattacks.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic252x.u11	Mr President, Minister, at the beginning of September the press reported an internal report on the police in the Brussels area CAPITAL Ixelles. Produced by the Internal Service for the Prevention and Protection of Labour (SIPPT) for 3 months and according to a rigorous methodology, this report highlights deplorable working conditions and practices for the least intimidating: inadequate and poorly disinfected premises, arbitrary arrests, alcoholism, unreachable hierarchy, insubordination, sofa promotions. Minister, how is it that the area police council has learned of this report in the press and still does not have a copy? Would it be possible to have access to this report? Since I have no doubt that you have read this report carefully, I would also like to know what action you intend to take. What do you intend to do, and within what time frame, to remedy the problems that have been denounced, which appear to be quite intriguing and rather serious? Have you ever had any contact with the hierarchy concerned? Do you intend to impose sanctions on him? What communication has been made to staff to ensure that this audit is taken into account and the follow-up given to it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic252x.u12	Mr Vanden Burre, I was not aware of this report. However, I have asked for clarification both from my administration and from the Brussels police zone CAPITALE Ixelles. According to my information, this is an analysis of 12 April 2014 prepared by the Internal Service of Prevention and Protection at Work, which is organized by the Law of 4 August 1996 on well-being at work. In principle, this department reports directly to the Chief of Staff. Neither I nor my administration have received this report – which is normal. However, the report referred to by the media consists of a psychosocial risk analysis of District 3 of the police zone conducted between 2013 and 2014. The final version was communicated to the Chief of Staff and the local administrative authority on 12 April 2014. As a reminder, a risk analysis is an instant snapshot of staff to optimize the functioning of the service and increase the well-being of staff. Subsequently, collective preventive measures can be taken. They are then discussed within the welfare committee at work in the area. In view of the confidentiality of such an analysis and in order to ensure anonymity, only the members of the basic consultation committee, composed of the police college and representative trade union organisations, may consult it. Therefore, we are not in a position to give you access to this document. That's the law. The findings of the analysis had noted some complaints in the areas of communication, inter-service collaboration, staff management and the working environment. On this basis, the police zone has taken various preventive measures for each of these areas. District 3 management has taken the necessary steps to communicate these measures to its staff. Several follow-up meetings are still planned. The police zone has assumed its responsibilities, but must also deplore the fact that the elements relayed by the press are often wrong and run counter to the philosophy and purpose of this type of analysis. At the moment, I am not planning any specific measures, since preventive arrangements have been made within the committee for well-being at work. However, I will remain attentive to this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic252x.u13	Minister, thank you for your detailed answer. Is it possible to know the action plan and the measures that will be taken? That would be interesting, even if I understood that the report should remain confidential. In this way, we could follow the file closely.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic252x.u14	Like I said, I'll follow the file. But the democratic control of the employer is the responsibility of the college and the police council of the area. I don't have a lot of skills in this. I think you have representatives there. They can therefore fulfil their role. I am obviously very concerned about the well-being of our police officers, whether federal or local, but the responsibility for monitoring lies with the college and the council of the area.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic252x.u15	Mr President, Minister, at the beginning of June we heard about your new recommendation for the fire department. After each extinguishing intervention, firefighters will have to remove their used firefighter's uniform immediately on site in order to keep contact with carcinogens as short as possible. In the case of local corps, this recommendation is very much welcomed as a step in the right direction. In the South East aid zone of the province of East Flanders, the committee on prevention and protection at work met recently. It is clear to everyone that exhaust gases from PAHs, VOCs, carbon monoxide and other terrible substances are highly toxic. It is not only the acute exposure to these substances that is very cancerogenic, but also the delayed release of absorbed substances in our clothing and other textiles such as car interiors. At present, only one intervention suit per person is available in the South-East zone. This means that firefighters have to perform all interventions with the same clothing. Due to the lack of spare clothes it cannot be washed in between. Recent testimony confirms this. Not only the inhalation of the exhaust gases is a problem during and after the intervention, but also the absorption through the skin and to a lesser extent the digestive system. Some interventions also involve risks such as asbestos fire and the burning of dangerous substances. Such interventions are subject to specific measures which unfortunately cannot be followed, because firefighters only have an intervention suit. For example, a full procedure on asbestos was developed by the KCCE a few years ago, which unfortunately cannot be followed because there is no spare clothing available. Minister, in many corps people row with the belts they have. That is a credit to them, but we must also recognise that the federal government has a great responsibility. I call for the federal government to assume its responsibilities, define good practice and provide the necessary support and follow-up for each fire zone to apply these procedures. Minister, I have some questions that have already been answered in part in your letter. Do you agree with me that washing fire clothes from the federal level should be better organised? What steps have been taken to this end? In the short term, I also advocate setting up a zone, either by post or by section, where a washing site can be provided. Here authorized persons can properly clean the clothes of their colleagues. In addition, in order to help stop particulates of soot gases, mass masks can be made available after an intervention, when compressed air is no longer handled. Perhaps in the past the government has long assumed that the firefighters are making their plans anyway, but now is the time to give our corps the support they deserve. I know that, as Minister of the Interior, you have a warm heart or should I say a heartfelt heart to our firefighters. I therefore hope that you will soon be working on a comprehensive plan to increase the hygiene of our operational firefighters in a sensitive and structural way, as well as to ensure their safety and health.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic252x.u16	Mr President, I can inform you that I share your concern about the health and safety of firefighters. That would still be wrong. That is why, as you said, your question dates back to before sending the circular letter, in July I published a circular letter covering not only the cleaning process, but also other important issues relating to proper handling of fire clothes, such as proper inventory. It is surprising to note that some corps do not inventory their clothes and therefore cannot record their age, with all possible consequences. In addition to proper inventory, this includes the assignment of colour codes, performance of the spray test, determination of damage, repair of damaged clothing and so on. All these aspects are addressed in the circular. Attention should also be paid to operational measures during and after intervention. However, I think it is right to add that the responsibility lies primarily with the employer, in this case the fire zones, to monitor well-being at work and to ensure that people can carry out their work in good conditions. This means that workers must have proper clothing and that all protective equipment, such as FFP3 masks, are available, as well as ensuring that the intervention clothing is maintained and cleaned. To support the areas therein, I have included in the amount of 12 million, planned as a subsidy for the purchase of rolling stock, clothing and protective equipment. The list of what can be purchased by these means now includes clothing for firefighters and personal protective equipment. So that list has been extended. Finally, let me examine new washing methods, such as washing with CO2. To this end, I have set up a working group, composed of specialists from the various fire zones, to draw up the specifications so that my services can launch a public contract, which will enable the fire zones to have an alternative in the foreseeable future. In addition to traditional washing with water, washing with CO2 will thus also be available after that market procedure.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic252x.u17	Thank you, Minister, for your detailed reply and your education. We look forward with interest to the results of the working group. The corps are also looking forward to further development. Especially about the cleaning process, the cleaning with CO2, has already been a lot to do.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic252x.u18	Mr.President, Minister, the Higher Council of Health issued in March 2015 a notice concerning nuclear accidents, environment and health in the post-Fukushima era. His advice is very clear since he states that in the event of a nuclear accident, the protection strategy is based on the rapid and large-scale administration of non-radioactive iodine to prevent thyroid uptake of radioactive iodine in accidental releases. He emphasized the development and planning of a rapid distribution strategy for target populations at distances up to 100 kilometres and more from the site of the accident. He stressed that he considered that populations with iodine deficiency were at greater risk. This risk is known. Iodine distribution is advocated in the event of a nuclear accident and we must be fully prepared for it. I asked your colleague, the Minister of Public Health, about these issues. To make it short, she's sending me back to you. I tabled my question last June. Mr Minister, my questions are as follows. What is the state of play in the development and planning of a strategy for the rapid distribution of non-radioactive iodine on the basis of the Council's recommendations to extend the measure to citizens living at a distance of 100 km? Given all the nuclear power stations on Belgian territory, it is the entire population that should benefit from iodine, but today iodine is only available to the inhabitants within a radius of 20 kilometres, with circles limited to a minority population. Are we going to move forward on this? In my view, this is a minimum protection that must be provided.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic252x.u19	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the issue of thyroid protection, various international and national bodies and organisations have delivered opinions. In addition to the advice of the Senior Health Council, an opinion is also expected from the AFCN Scientific Council for this month. The protection of the thyroid and the Belgian strategy in this area are one of many points of attention in the context of the updating of the federal nuclear emergency plan under consideration. This problem affects, on the one hand, the competence of the Minister of Public Health since iodine tablets have the status of a drug and that the individual distribution of these tablets is currently carried out through the circuit of pharmacists and, on the other hand, the competence of the Minister of the Interior, responsible for coordinating the provisions of the Federal Nuclear Emergency Plan. I would like to stress that, in addition to the distribution of iodine tablets in the 20-kilometre zone around nuclear facilities, stocks of iodine tablets are also available in civil protection units and that there is a national stock for distribution throughout the country as necessary. The current strategy for the protection of the thyroid during nuclear emergencies will be evaluated on the basis of its timeliness. A working group is currently being established in close consultation with my colleague from Public Health. It will be composed of the emergency planning and crisis management departments, both departments and AFCN. The aim of this working group will be to formulate a proposal for a strategy to the competent ministers and to implement the strategy finally adopted, including the dissemination of information to the population, doctors and pharmacists. It goes without saying that the opinions of the Senior Health Council and the Scientific Council of the AFCN will be taken into account and Greenpeace's position on this matter. At this level, the protection of children and pregnant women is always a focus. Finally, the Belgian strategy will be discussed with both the Netherlands and Germany. There is a consultation with these two countries on nuclear emergency preparedness. A further bilateral meeting with Germany is planned for the end of this month; not only the German federal authorities will participate, but the Länder Nordrhein-Westfalen and Rheinland-Pfalz will also be represented. Collaboration at the national and local levels takes place on a regular basis with the Netherlands between the corresponding bodies.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic252x.u20	Minister, thank you. I hear that the two ministers are going to consult each other because there is nothing worse than playing ping-pong with a minister who is referring to the other. Mrs. De Block sent the file back to you saying it wasn't her business. I hear we're going to work together with Health and the Interior, which seems obvious to me. Once the AFCN scientific opinion has been given this month, I would be interested in having it. With regard to updating the contingency plan, I believe that you will not be able to do anything other than integrate the need to work with a much wider scope of protection than it is today. Working on a 20-kilometre perimeter of protection based on what is known about thyroid cancer epidemics following nuclear accidents in other countries – I am thinking of Fukushima – would be totally unacceptable. We know it's the key factor in avoiding thyroid cancer. Having tablets only at the civil protection unit level is not enough because the time factor is a major factor. You mentioned the consultation for updates of contingency plans with the Netherlands and Germany. I insist that the same approach be taken with France, since there are nuclear power stations at the border. We must protect the boring people and the Namurians who are concerned by the French nuclear power plants and not only with the articulation of borders with the Netherlands and Germany.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic252x.u21	When I refer to the circle of 20 km, this is the old plan. We are in the process of drafting the new plan. As far as France is concerned, we are further on in the cooperation plans. The latter are more recent and well established than with the Netherlands and Germany.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic252x.u22	I repeat that the scope of the current plans, which is set at 20 km, is insufficient and must be extended to 100 km; it is therefore, in practice, a matter of covering the whole of Belgium. It is enough to draw concentric perimeters around all nuclear power plants and the entire national territory will be covered. It is necessary to change the current distribution and availability of iodine tablets and to adapt this to the situation. For France, some protocols are more recent. At the same time, history has shown that there are still shortcomings in the transmission of information. When there are incidents on the other side of the border, we find that on this side, we do not necessarily always have the correct information in good time. To obtain them three or six months later is not interesting in the area of secondary risk prevention.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic252x.u23	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Demeyer's 5518 question was converted into a written question. The combined questions Nos 5531 by Mrs Temmerman and 5600 by Mrs Schepmans are also converted into written questions. Debates of the European Parliament Question No 55, by Mr Kir has been converted into a written question, as has his question No 5549. 5550.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic252x.u24	Minister, Interpol has set up a Global Complex for Innovation (IGCI), a new centre in Singapore, far from here, in order to fight cybercrime more effectively. It is a collaboration between private and public players, which should also ensure technological innovation, including Kaspersky Lab, Trend Micro and Microsoft. The aim is to ensure that the police can use the latest technologies to cut off cybercriminals. In the IGCI there is a forensic lab, a bunker, especially to investigate smartphones and other things, highly sophisticated equipment to investigate cyber threats. Of course, police officers receive special training for such special tasks in order to identify these crimes on the Internet. So they have their own training to be able to better empathise with the world of the cybercriminals themselves. Most of the criminal cybernet activities happen on the so-called darknet. Darknet sites are dedicated sites on the Internet that are completely inaccessible unless they have keys via an anonymous network. Those networks, TOR or I2P, are therefore very special networks where one does not just enter. Interpol also uses such a kind of darknet but of course not for bad activities, but precisely for secure, good activities. For me, cross-pollination between private and public actors is an example of how the fight against cybercrime could happen in Belgium. That darknet is also something that has recently come to light in the case of child pornography. An Australian investigation has shown that a 45-year-old Mechelen there would have offered his 11-year-old child to paedophiles. At the moment, research and the fight against the darknet is certainly important. What about the CCUs? Are there any police officers monitoring the darknet? If so, what technology do they use? How many full-time equivalents are used specifically to monitor the darknet? How many actions have been taken in this regard? Are there any legal objections or obstacles to this? Does the possible absence of the police on the darknet include other security risks for the population? Have our police services already used Interpol's services with the IGCI?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic252x.u25	Mr Vermeulen, it would have given me a little more peace of mind today if we could have dealt with that question a few weeks earlier. After yesterday's P Committee, there was some swell. I'll answer your first three questions together. The purpose of monitoring or monitoring the Internet is to maintain public order and prevent crime in public places by mere presence. As such, this activity is part of the tasks of the administrative police and is legally permitted without any difficulty. Actually, patrolling the web is like patrolling the streets. That's completely comparable. The finality of monitoring is what matters. As soon as monitoring becomes legal in nature, becomes systematic and identifies specific persons and/or places, collecting information over longer periods and possibly with the use of technical aids, the legislation on the special detection methods is implemented. Such activities can only be carried out under the direction of a magistrate and within the framework of a specific dossier. Police, at both local and federal level, regularly investigate criminal activities on the darkweb within the framework of a specific file. Besides, the State Security will also analyze the web and the darkweb for the follow-up of specific files. For example, in a cooperation between FBI, Europol, FCCU, FGP Dendermonde and the police area Kouter, arrests were recently made of a number of suspects who were involved in drug offences on the darkweb. The mere patrolling of the dark web has so far been done with a half-time equivalent, according to the statements of the P Committee yesterday and today. We are working within the federal police on the development of an internetrcherche unit, which will take on this task. It will scan not only the Internet for terror, but also for child pornography, drug states and illegal trafficking. The systematic presence of the police on the dark web will undoubtedly lead to more crime being detected and addressed and will also have a deterrent effect. We're planning to start that cell on January 1st. In the first instance, five to ten full-time equivalents will be set. As regards your last question, as agreed in the channel choice model, Europol is the primary contact point for Belgium. If required, there will also be close cooperation with Interpol in European cross-border files. IGCI is still in full swing. Cooperation is currently limited to receiving intelligence reports. The Commissioner-General personally made sure that the specialists at the IGCI came to give training to our investigators here in Belgium. I might add the following. I have recently visited Interpol, especially the unit that deals with tracking child pornography on the net. I have to tell you, what these people are doing is impressive. This is being sent from Interpol, in cooperation with the Member States.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic252x.u26	Mr Minister, the information received yesterday and today by the media has, of course, made sure that a piece of the question had already been answered. In the meantime, we know where the shoe is and that things have been dealt with. I look forward with interest to the results of the Internet Trecherche Unit, which should be able to deal with matters effectively. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic252x.u27	Mr President, Minister, during your visit to Herve last June, you drew attention to the growing problem of biker gangs acting outside the law. While the Netherlands and Germany are strengthening their legal possibilities, Belgium is still waiting, which is why some groups are coming to our border region. Mr Minister, I welcome the fact that you have taken note of this problem which, as you know, is topical in my region. Minister, are there specialized units within the federal police for this kind of crime, as is already the case in our neighbouring countries? If so, are there regular consultations between the German, Dutch and Belgian police services? Are you considering taking further action within the police on this issue? If so, which ones?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic252x.u28	Mr President, Mrs Jadin, both in the local police areas and in the deconcentrated services of the Federal Judicial Police, the police personnel carry out, as part of their routine tasks, the investigation of cases involving criminal motorcycle gangs. In addition, the road police are also aware of the problems of the same gangs. The federal police have as a priority the fight against organised crime, a mission for which a comprehensive and integrated programmatic approach is implemented. Let's be clear, motorcyclists' criminal gangs are an example of organized criminal organization. As early as 1996, a specialized service was established at the national level to monitor the problem of motorcyclists' criminal gangs. The tasks of this specialised department as well as the "Highsider" project of DG SOC, which deals with serious criminal organisations, are partly reflected in the confidential circular of the College of Attorneys General (COL 6/2009) on motorcyclists' criminal gangs. The purpose of this circular is to frame legal proceedings in a structured and coherent manner and to propose an administrative approach to the phenomenon. A reference magistrate is appointed to monitor the problem within the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office. In order to ensure optimal follow-up, a network of investigative experts composed of members of the Federal Judicial Police has been established. These contact persons have a more advanced knowledge of motorcyclists' criminal gangs, which can be activated in investigations that show links to the problem. The cooperation between the Highsider project and other European and non-European countries is part of the classical international police cooperation. Information is exchanged through existing platforms where the problem of motorcyclists' criminal gangs is one of the areas of activity. For Belgium's direct neighbours, mention may be made of the Heerlen Centre for Police and Customs Cooperation, the Office voor Euregionale samenwerking, which brings together the German, Belgian and Dutch police services and magistrates, as well as the NeDeBeAgPol, the association of police officials within the Euregio Meuse-Rhin, which deals with trilateral police cooperation. At European level, it should be mentioned that Europol has established a surveillance platform specifically dedicated to the issue, called "Monitor", which prevents criminal activities of criminal bikers' gangs and provides support in the management of events where these gangs are represented. Most recently, the organizational framework of the Federal Police "Highsider" project has been completed. There are now four police officers; the evolution of the phenomenon of new biker gangs and the optimisation of federal police services will require more than likely an adaptation of the approach as implemented so far. For an effective fight against criminal biker gangs, it is essential that an administrative and judicial approach be developed in perfect harmony. This requires, inter alia, that the authorities have a legal framework in place to enable the exchange of relevant information in their possession. With the administrative approach, various possibilities that fall outside the traditional framework of criminal prosecution are offered to the authorities to prevent or try the offence committed by criminal bikers' gangs. This approach is certainly foreseen in the context of the comprehensive security framework note being developed. In addition, this aspect is based on numerous scientific research on this subject. Without wishing to be exhaustive, I refer to the analyses of Professors Brice De Ruyver, Dirk Van Daele, Cyrille Fijnaut and researcher Michaël de José de l'Euregio Meuse-Rhin. I would like to draw inspiration from their work and recommendations. I met different mayors of Limburg, the border area. They received a presentation of the "Highsider" project. They also asked me to establish international contacts. At the last JHA in early October, I put the criminal biker gangs on the agenda. I have received the support of the whole Council of European Ministers to understand this phenomenon through the European Commission. We have also signed a small convention between Germany, Luxembourg, Belgium and the Netherlands, according to which we will exchange our respective information and meet regularly to examine the measures taken in the various countries and align them. You're right, you mentioned it in your question. Germany has adjusted its law and the Netherlands has put in place an administrative policy to put pressure on it. We already have our "Highsider" programs. An alignment of the different approaches must be considered and this is the purpose of this small convention.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic252x.u29	Minister, thank you for your very comprehensive answer. You know that I am delighted that you have taken to heart the problems of my region. It is a border region with problems of criminal biker gangs and all administrative and judicial problems that go hand in hand. This is regularly highlighted by the police services in my area. I welcome the efforts that have been made in this regard with this Convention. I have also heard in your reply the importance of the platform, which I invite you to come and visit one day, set up by the various police services of the Euregio Meuse-Rhin who are trying to work in a more coherent way and therefore to speed up the work, especially in this field. Of course, that's welcome.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic252x.u30	Mr President, Minister, on 16 March 2015, AREVA finalized for its Electrabel customer the delivery of the new tank cover for Unit 3 of the Tihange nuclear power plant in Belgium. This stainless steel component of more than 60 tonnes is expected to be installed as part of the cut-off maintenance operations. Mr. Minister, you are aware of the difficulties that the same AREVA manufacturer of the EPR tank lid has at the moment raised by the failure to manufacture. Can you tell me if the method of making this lid for Tihange is the same as that used for the EPR lid? Can you assure me that this lid for Tihange has been subjected to the necessary tests to verify that it does not suffer from the same defects as that of the EPR? Can you reassure us completely that this Tihange 3 lid is safe and safe?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic252x.u31	Mr. Nollet, the new cover of the Tihange 3 reactor and the cover of the Flamanville EPR were not produced by the same manufacturer. In Belgium, AREVA was in charge of coordinating the project for the finishing of the forged part, but the actual manufacture of the new lid took place at Japan Steel Works. The cover of Flamanville's EPR comes from the French firm Creusot Forges, a subsidiary of AREVA. While the new Tihange 3 reactor cover and the Flamanville EPR cover have both been forged with a single piece, their respective production processes show some differences. On the basis of these differences, one can in principle exclude the possibility that the Tihange 3 lid suffers from the same defects as the cover of the Flamanville EPR. In any case, AFCN and BelV impose strict quality requirements for the new Tihange 3 lid. Even before the problem with the Flamanville PRT was announced, AFCN and BelV had already requested additional tests to ensure that the quality level of the new lid exceeded the level prescribed by the ASME code for nuclear pressure equipment. After the French nuclear safety authority informed him of the manufacturing defects of the EPR lid, the AFCN conducted a first literature review. This analysis showed that it was unlikely that the new Tihange 3 lid would have defects as the production process was different. However, AFCN requested the operator Electrabel to carry out additional measures to demonstrate that the new lid does not have any such defects. These measurements were carried out and the results were transmitted to AFCN prior to the launch of Tihange 3. The results confirmed that the Tihange 3 lid has no such defect. The AFCN therefore approved the delivery of the new lid.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic252x.u32	Thank you for your answer and the elements of precision about the partially different origin, even if the coordination is at AREVA. I was much less reassured by the words "in principle exclude" and "unlikely" that you mentioned at some point in your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic252x.u33	Mr President, Minister, I know that you have already been questioned by some of my colleagues in July about the environment police. I have read your answer with interest. I wanted to go back to the subject, which I think is relevant. Indeed, at the beginning of October, a fairly important event took place in Manage, where this service coordinated a targeted action on the transfer of clothing and the trafficking of waste from clothing. I will not remind you of the importance of environmental crimes, not only for the protection of nature, but also because of the link that these crimes, offences and trafficking have with organized crime and, consequently, the financing of terrorism. In the case I have just mentioned, they were Syrians and Iraqis. I would like to stress the expertise of this cell, which is staff-limited and has only six police officers – five for the time being – and two CALOGs. This unit provides important services to local police, but is mainly a coordinating body between national agencies (parquets, regional authorities, local and district police) and international (Europol, Interpol, UNEP, etc.).). On July 1st, you replied that it was very likely that this service would disappear. I am concerned about this when we know that the disappearance of a service tends to eliminate the expertise associated with it. It seems to me that it would be harmful to completely dismantle this service or to integrate it into a multitasking service in which its skills would be diluted or even lost, while the port of Antwerp is one of the major gateways to Europe and, consequently, susceptible to all kinds of smuggling. According to informal information collected by the Judicial Director of the Ghent Public Prosecutor's Office, responsible for the coordination of public prosecutors' offices on environmental crime offences, while in 2012 seizures amounted to €333,000, they increased to €647,000 in 2013 to €47 million in 2014! By the beginning of 2015, almost 4.5 million euros had already been seized. Waste trafficking ranks third after money laundering and fraud in all financial seizures. Even drugs don't reach those levels. The importance of this service is therefore not to be demonstrated. However, it is not included in the priorities chosen. Of course, I understand the desire to reduce the number of priorities. That is why I ask you, Deputy Prime Minister, whether it would not be wise, instead of completely eliminating it, to make it a non-priority support service, as is already the case for child pornography, weapons and hormones.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic252x.u34	Madam, my answer is included in your question. You are absolutely right when you refer to the link between environmental crime and organised crime. This is why these services will be consolidated. It is not because a service is removed that the skills are removed. Everything is grouped within the Directorate dealing with organised crime, including environmental crime. When different services are devoted to handling criminal organization cases, little information is available for each category. It is difficult to gather information from different services and to arrive at solutions. That is why we bring together everything related to organised crime in the same direction. This does not mean that skills in environmental crime disappear. They are grouped within this main direction to have all the pieces of the puzzle. I am confident that many problems will be solved. We will thus have a comprehensive view of all the activities of these criminal organizations. We'll be more efficient.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic252x.u35	Minister, thank you for your answer. Having said that, I hear you want to move towards centralization. But do you or do you not intend to keep the services as you have done for the support services, even if they will be covered?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic252x.u36	We will work on the different levels: the local police, the deconcentrated federal police and the central organization.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic252x.u37	You should be aware that the interest lay in the coordination that this service provided. In fact, we were able to see this on the occasion of the last case.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic252x.u38	Coordination of what? If you are talking about the coordination of environmental crime, I believe that organised crime cannot be managed separately. It is much more operational to manage it by dealing with different themes at the same time. This will make it easier for us to find the links between the different forms of organized crime through the consolidation of a service. That is the aim pursued.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic252x.u39	The services concerned will therefore retain their skills and expertise.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic252x.u40	Of course. It is very difficult to remove their skills from staff.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic252x.u41	But they still need to be integrated and continue to work!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic252x.u42	That's right!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic252x.u43	Mr President, Minister, on June 3, the Walloon Parliament adopted a resolution calling on the federal government to abolish the electronic voting system for regional, federal and European elections. A week later, in response to an inquiry I had made on the subject, you indicated that you had not yet received a request from the federated entities for the organisation of voting systems for the forthcoming elections. Your intention was to move towards harmonization of the voting system for all forthcoming elections. On July 2, 2015, the Walloon government announced that it had officially sent a request to the federal government to abandon the electronic voting system in Wallonia for the 2019 elections (regional, federal and European). While it is essential that guarantees be ensured in terms of the security, confidentiality, transparency and integrity of the vote, it appears that the Walloon initiative was taken without consultation with the other Regions. On the other hand, Flanders is continuing with the new generation electronic voting system known as Smartmatic. This is understandable in view of the operation of this system in the last elections held. And, at the centre of this state of affairs, you have the Brussels Region which has been organising all elections since 1994 with the electronic voting system but which is currently strangely silent, whereas the municipalities have received from you not the injunction but the council no longer to use the voting material in their possession. Considering the demands of both the Association of the City and Communes and the Conference of the Townmasters, it seems to me important that we be able to ask for a certain amount of information on the current situation. Minister, has the Walloon government communicated its intentions to the interdepartmental working group and federated entities as to the choice that was expressed by the Walloon Parliament? Have you received a formal request from the Walloon government on this matter? What exactly does this formal request include? Was it taken in consultation with the College of Experts in charge of analysing the operation of the 2014 elections? Are you aware of any consultation that the Walloon government would have undertaken with the other federated entities? Have you received a request from the Brussels government for the renewal of Jites hardware, via Smartmatic hardware? What steps have been taken by your services to the Walloon government? Is there a conciliation procedure? If so, within what time frame and with whom?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic252x.u44	Mr Minister, on 6 January last, the panel of experts presented us, in the Committee on the Interior, with an extremely critical report on the way in which election operations were conducted by computer in the May 2014 elections. These remarks, which were not just technical, concerned both the Jites system, Mr. Pivin, and the Smartmatic system. On 3 June, at the initiative of the Ecolo Group, the Walloon Parliament adopted a resolution calling on the government to abandon automated voting procedures for the next elections, for ethical but above all budgetary reasons. At the beginning of this month, a letter from the Walloon government would have come to you, as my colleague pointed out, stating this formal request. Did you receive this letter and, if so, could I get a copy of it? Six months after the conclusions of the panel of experts presented to the Committee on the Interior, could you tell me how far the Internal SPF is in the implementation of the recommendations? As a reminder, they requested, among other things, the abandonment of the Jites system, which seems obvious to me, but also the profound modification of the procedures related to the Smartmatic system. I would remind you that an average error of two votes per ballot box was detected between the paper box and the electronic ballot box. This Smartmatic system received a significant federal investment in 2014. Could you specify, according to your department's most recent studies, the average cost per elector of voting on a Smartmatic system and the average cost per elector of voting on a traditional paper method?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic252x.u45	Mr. Pivin, I confirm that the Minister-President of the Walloon Government, in a letter addressed to me on July 2nd of this year, has requested the abandonment of electronic voting for the next elections. To the extent that the Walloon Region is competent for the local elections of 2018, I take note of the abandonment of electronic voting in this Region. In this regard, I would like to remind you of my letter of March 12, 2015, addressed to the municipalities, in which I announced my decision to abandon the use of Jites and Digivote first-generation automated voting systems in the 2019 federal elections. These are the European, legislative and regional elections. This decision is based on the official report on the elections of 25 May 2014 of the College of Parliamentary Experts. I asked, as you mentioned, Mr. Pivin, not to use this dated material for the next election. I am not aware of any consultation between the Walloon government and the other federated entities regarding the abandonment of electronic voting. On 10 July 2015, I sent a letter to the Minister-President of the Brussels Region CAPITALE in order to know the prospects for the future of the Brussels Region in terms of voting procedures. More formally, I can inform you that a draft royal decree has been submitted to the Council of Ministers in order to amend the Royal Decree of 14 March 2014 designating the electoral cantons and communes for the use of an electronic voting system, in order to remove the reference to the cantons that have still used the first generation automated voting system in 2014. Once this order has been amended, it will no longer be possible to use this system in these cantons in federal elections. I confirm by mail the above to the Minister-President of the Walloon Government. In addition, I inform you that as the abandonment of first-generation systems in the Walloon Region will involve some changes in the process of organising the next elections in 2018 and 2019, my services, in collaboration with the regional authority and the Walloon municipalities concerned, will ensure that the necessary measures are taken to ensure a transition in the best conditions. Mr Hellings, with regard to the report of the College of Experts following the 2014 elections, as I have already informed this committee, on 12 March 2015 I sent a letter to the municipalities concerned, informing them of my decision to abandon the use of first-generation automated voting systems. The technical and procedural recommendations of the College of Experts in relation to the Smartmatic system are still the subject of consultations between the Internal FPS and the Flemish and Brussels administrations, which also use this system, so that common solutions can be adopted in the run-up to the 2018 and 2019 elections. After analysing these solutions and evaluating the budget, they can be presented to the College of Experts before implementation. However, it may be useful to recall that the College of Experts has always been in favour of the Smartmatic system since its chairman, Mr Willems, recalled during the exchange of views held in committee on 27 January, that "the College of Experts has no objection to the use of Smartmatic. The system proved for the second time that it was well designed and working well in practice." After the elections of 25 May 2014, the Inland FPS performed a comparison calculation of the costs of traditional paper voting and voting using the Smartmatic system. The cost of paper voting is thus estimated at 2,1145 euros per elector and per election. This cost is €4.4412 for the Smartmatic system, double the cost. Compared to the calculation made in the past, it should be noted that the cost of traditional voting has increased from 1.5 euros to 2.11 euros. This is due in particular to the fact that the price of pulp has increased significantly in recent years, but also to the fact that the 2014 elections were simultaneous. More counting offices have been set up, which has resulted in increased costs. For your information, I have also submitted a detailed calculation of these costs to the secretariat of the committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic252x.u46	Thank you for this very comprehensive answer, Minister. As far as my question number 4 is concerned, I asked you whether you have received a request from the Brussels government. I may have been inattentive to this aspect of the answer. So you didn't register anything as an application? No? Okay.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic252x.u47	Is it possible to have a copy of the Walloon Government letter if I request it by mail?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic252x.u48	Yes. I don't think it's a confidential letter.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic252x.u49	Okay, so I'll ask you by mail. Regarding the capital information you have given, namely the average cost per elector, it is double for the Smartmatic system. Therefore, in the context of the question which we will have to decide shortly in the discussion on the new voting arrangements for the elections, since in the Brussels Region and in the Flemish Region not all the municipalities voted by Smartmatic, we must therefore take into account the question of the reliability of the vote, the possible control of the vote by any citizen, but also of its budgetary dimension. There you have just given an argument which is particularly in line with the paper vote because twice as much is not nothing! At this time of fiscal restraint, this is a good way to save money. We'll have an opportunity to discuss it again.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic252x.u50	It is also more expensive to travel by train than to walk. And yet we use the train.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic252x.u51	But the train is going much faster.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic252x.u52	Voices are also counted much faster with an electronic system.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic252x.u53	Minister, the big difference between walking and walking on the one hand and electronic voting and paper voting on the other is that when we invested in an electronic voting system – what happened in 2014 with the Jites system – it was the outdated material that explained the problems we experienced. This has been explained in length and wide by the College of Experts. When we invest again in a Smartmatic system, possibly in 2019, and it will be old in 2024 and we will have problems again and we will have to reinvest in a new system because oldness will explain the democratic difficulties, in this case, minister, it is absolutely necessary to think in the long term. I think your party is particularly sensitive to the budget issue. You should be in this file too.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic252x.u54	Questions Nos 5796, 5797, 5798, 5800 and 5801 by Mr Ducrame are transformed into written questions. Questions Nos 5806, 5807 and 5808 by Mr Blanchart were postponed. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Gabriels' 5820 has been converted into a written question. The combined questions Nos 5824 by Mrs De Wit and 6069 by Mrs Jadin have also been converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic252x.u55	Minister, the law on security at football matches was adopted on 21 December 1998. The law was amended several times, last time in 2011. Over the years, policemen and the football world have gained practical experience with the law. This shows that a number of cases could be adapted in the light of problems that have arisen in the past. For example, in youth competitions, referees or players are sometimes victims of violence in the same way as in matches of clubs of first or second class. Some games of amateur teams attract more people than races in second class, but there are less stringent safety regulations. The Belgian football law does not apply to practice matches of first-class teams abroad. The problems with practice matches abroad are not new. Mrs Turtelboom, your predecessor, said in 2011 that the Belgian football law should apply to foreign practice matches of Belgian teams. She also stated that there would be discussions at European level on some sort of international football legislation. Those conversations remained unfulfilled until today. In the Netherlands, too, we are thinking of extending the scope of the football law. The reason for this was the recent riots with Feyenoordhooligans in Rome, in which, among other things, the ancient fountain was damaged at the Spanish Steps. On 18 June 2015, your Dutch colleague for Security and Justice announced, among other things, that such an extension was not necessary for him, especially since the Netherlands would exchange information with foreign partners about persons who have been banned from playing in the Netherlands. On that subject, I have the following questions. Is there an evaluation and any revision of the current football law? If so, do you have a timing for that? What impact will the recently approved competition reform starting from the 2016-2017 season have on the current football law? In addition to the technical considerations, such as the fact that the name "second class' will no longer exist, will any substantive adjustments be made? Do you intend to provide for an extension of the scope of the football law for practice matches of Belgian teams abroad? Does Belgium share information with countries where Belgian first- and second-class players play practice games? Does that happen systematically or only when the team or the country in question requests that information? Could you give us some more information on that? As mentioned earlier, the Dutch Minister says that information is being exchanged about persons with a stadium ban. Can you tell me how that happens? Do other countries exchange such data? Do you believe that a European football law would bring added value? Have any steps been taken since 2011, since Mrs Turtelboom's announcement?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic252x.u56	Mr President, as you say, the football law has been in place since 21 December 1998. Although the law still stands, the football cell remains in contact with the actors concerned in order to be able to answer the questions of the field. Indeed, the competition reform has an impact on the football law and on the implementing decisions. The football cell is currently working on some changes. Those changes to the football law, in particular the supporter violation section, will apply until the amateur League 2. This extends the area where the offences may apply, which also provides for a long-standing demand on the ground. The club/organiser part of the football law consists of two parts. All provisions applicable to the current first and second classes will also apply to the future first class A and first class B, the two professional competitions, while only some of those obligations will apply to amateur league 1, the second part of the second class. In particular, the obligations concerning infrastructure, ticketing, stewards and security officers are also imposed on the amateur League 1. The extension of the application of the current football law to matches of Belgian teams abroad is legally very difficult and even unfeasible according to the football cell. In other countries the laws of the country in question apply, not our laws. We can hardly send decision-making that we are drafting here with our football teams abroad. As a methodology, that's rather unusual. Within the legal provisions applicable, the police services share information almost systematically with the European countries where official competitions involving a Belgian team take place. For the practice matches, the exchange usually takes place on the basis of a request from the country where the game is played. So there are international agreements for official matches and for practice contests it is rather the local police order of the host country, which will request the information. Following the Decision 2002/348 of the Justice and Home Affairs European Council of 25 April 2002 on security in connection with football matches with an international dimension, a national police information point on football was established in each Member State. The international exchange of information thus takes place via this contact point, which is located here in Belgium, with the federal police. No country systematically transmits information regarding its supporters with a stadium ban. Even if this exchange of personal data is possible to prevent any disturbance of public policy, a list alone is not sufficient to orient the action of the police forces. Moreover, certain supporters who do not have a stadium ban may also distort public order. For this reason, police forces use the support of foreign colleagues, so-called spotters, who know their risk groups, during international football matches, as well as friendly international matches or during home matches where there is information on the presence of foreign supporters who may cause problems. This support not only makes it possible to better analyse the risks associated with the presence of certain supporters, but also to communicate with those supporters in their own language, in order to neutralize any conflict. In reply to your last question, that could be an added value, but it is not evident to make one law, taking into account the different judicial systems and procedures in each country. It would therefore be better for each country to continue its efforts to prevent its own supporters going abroad to disrupt public order and to develop good cooperation with neighbouring countries. In addition, at the level of the Council of Europe, there is a convention on violence in sporting events which makes recommendations to the Member States to adopt measures. This convention has been in existence for 30 years and is currently being reworked. If one were to create a single European law, one would also have to consider that the legal systems and enforcement systems in each Member State are the same, and that is not the case for the moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic252x.u57	Minister, in relation to the last part of my question, I welcome your answer. I am not at all in favour of creating more Europe immediately for any problem where there is a multi-country activity. Cooperation is indeed better than a single sausage across Europe for this kind of problem. I also take note of the fact that the football cell is working on changes to the football law. For more than 15 years I have been a member of the board of directors of a second-grader who once played first-class. I am therefore more or less an expert in the field of football law. Over the past few weeks and months I have taken the initiative to question the field, both the police zones with a first or second class team, the Pro League and a number of football clubs in first and second class. I have been given a clear indication of what needs to be changed, and I myself intend to prepare a legislative proposal in that sense. I would like to contact the football cell to see that we certainly have no opposing views on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic252x.u58	Minister, in the Netherlands there is a bill on the table concerning the benefits to jihadists. These payments will be stopped more quickly and, moreover, the study funding and the tax administration's surcharges will also be terminated immediately. Benefits could have been discontinued in the past, but they sometimes lasted months. Also when study funding was stopped, rules were introduced which prevented and made it more difficult to stop. According to the new bill now on the table, if the intelligence services establish that a Dutchman has been drawn to Syria or Iraq as a jihadist or that a Dutchman has joined another terrorist group, all benefits are blocked. In Belgium it was already announced in September 2014 that the project BELFI was launched in Brussels. As part of that project, the Brussels FGP is looking for persons with the Belgian identity who went to Syria and still receive social benefits, such as unemployment benefit, OCMW benefit, sickness benefit or even child benefit. Once they have been detected and the facts have been established, the FGP shall draw up a report. This will be sent to the employment auditor and will in turn inform the social bodies. The benefit will then be withdrawn and recovery of benefits already paid may also be required. Minister, what is the status of the BELFI project at the moment? Is the project still active? How many Syrian fighters still receiving benefits have they been able to track down in the project? How many benefits have already been recovered? How do we deal with the withdrawal of benefits from Syrian fighters in our neighbouring countries? How does legislative work develop in this area?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic252x.u59	Mr Metsu, the project BELFI was announced by Attorney General Johan Delmulle of the Court of Appeal in Brussels in his Mercuriale of September 2014. The project was launched by the Brussels FGP and covers only the arrondissements of Brussels-Halle-Vilvoorde, Leuven and Nivelles. The project is still active and is in full effect, in close cooperation with the federal police, the judicial authorities, the RVA, the social inspection and the services responsible for the payment of child benefit. As far as natural persons are concerned, 85 initial minutes have so far been drawn up for social fraud and submitted to the employment auditor of the competent judicial district. Next, the facts were communicated by him to the various social institutions, which subsequently stopped current payments or charged unlawful payments. They are persons listed on the consolidated list of the OCAD, which was found to have received or still received unlawful compensation from the social institutions. The list is limited, because a known number of other persons are currently subject to judicial investigations. In the interests of ongoing investigations, the advice of the magistrate responsible and the investigators is awaited. Compared to the consolidated list of OCAD, there is still the possibility of further research into about 130 additional persons. Payments have been stopped so far, but no payments have yet been recovered. Stopping is easier than recovering. This may seem a long time, but the current procedures must be taken into account. Persons should be invited to be interviewed by the judicial services and by the RVA and evidence of a possible stay in the country as opposed to the data available in the judicial proceedings should be checked. As far as family allowances are concerned, the necessary searches are carried out by the Family Department of the local police areas. However, the problem requires the cooperation of certain major OMCWs of the Brussels Region. Some OMCWs do not cooperate and do not exchange information. Consequently, it is not known what amounts they have paid or what measures they have taken to stop or recover unlawful payments. Some simply do not reply and rely on their professional secrecy. Similar initiatives in our neighbouring countries are currently unknown to us.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic252x.u60	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. As regards the flow of information from certain Brussels OCMWs to the FGP, this can and must be addressed. It's all about crooked information. Although professional secrecy is important, it seems strange to me that the law is interpreted differently by various authorities. I will look into that further.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic252x.u61	Just so we're clear, there's no law in this matter. Mr Delmulle himself took the initiative to pursue this in his judicial district, based on laws. However, there is no legal obligation for the OCMWFs.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic252x.u62	Mr Mayeur relied on the law and professional secrecy. His colleagues interpret it differently. So someone must be wrong.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic252x.u63	Mr. President, Minister, two months ago, the press echoed the problem of the future of the horse police by referring to an internal note that would devalue the missions and the current role of this police integrated into the Public Security Directorate of the federal police. According to the journalists, this note would reduce the police raised to a "ceremonial role" and "support" to the local police. But we all know that this mission is not the only one of the Mounted Police that regularly supports patrols and local police law enforcement teams. Minister, can you tell me which body has produced this internal note? Was the Mounted Police Directorate involved in this analysis? Does this note indicate the number of accompanying missions carried out by the federal police on horseback to the local police, for each Region of the country? Mentoring missions during large-scale events (football, concerts, urban festivities, etc.) Have they been audited? Have local police representatives been involved in this analysis? How many police officers and horses do they currently make up the federal police on horseback?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic252x.u64	Mr. Chairman, I had prepared my answer to all three questions. So I'm going to give it as it is. Mr. Pivin, this will complete your file. The equestrian medium is integrated into all the means of the Directorate of Public Safety of the Federal Police. The federal police cavalry currently has 137 horses and 159 staff. (Organization table 3) including 113 police officers trained as horsemen. Some also carry out other operational missions within management. The other staff members are CALOGs, including palefreniers, marshals-ferrants, logistics personnel. The staff costs for this entity are EUR 11,472,000, or 57,000 per full-time equivalent. The operating and investment costs are EUR 12 688 000. They cover staff costs related to equestrian functionality, the purchase of horses, their maintenance and feeding, specific vehicles and equipment for horses. I have not yet mentioned the costs of infrastructure. According to the cavalry, it is high time to reinvest in the housing and land of the cavalry, outside the current barracks. A minimum estimate is that this service requires 12,000 square metres for stables and equestrian equipment. Taking into account a rental price of approximately EUR 80 per square metre, excluding VAT, an amount of EUR 1 178 000 on an annual basis is advanced. The total cost of this entity therefore amounts to EUR 13 866 000 on an annual basis. I have taken note of the elements transmitted by some in terms of operational added value but also of the reduction of costs already incurred in the context of the optimisation of the federal police and the reallocation of available capacities. I would like to stress first of all that the main objective is not to abolish or devalue certain services or missions. I want to breathe more oxygen in terms of capabilities for the real essential and indispensable police missions, to the benefit of the entire integrated police force. Indeed, in order to achieve the objective of modernizing and rationalizing the police, we must dare to call into question certain current services or missions that may be useful but not absolutely necessary. Of course, I want to guarantee the police services the possibility of having the appropriate means to carry out their operational tasks in order to ensure both the safety of the population and the safety of the police personnel engaged. A reorientation of resources is, in this context, absolutely necessary. Should this unit be abolished, it is clear that riders who have received basic training and are multi-purpose police officers may be reassigned to other federal or local police units. The same applies to the other members of this unit. However, this is not on the agenda. The exercise, which is therefore still ongoing, takes into account all the information gathered by the services or actors involved and which relates to the type, number and value of the tasks performed. During the various preparatory phases of the analysis of key tasks, several police areas were involved. The Standing Committee on Local Police was also involved in the discussions. This internal note is the result of a working group of police and security experts on an individual basis. My advisers are in the process of finalizing this document, on the basis of consultations with all stakeholders or on the basis of the information they have provided. This includes the steering committee of the federal police – especially the Mounted Police – but also the beneficiaries of this form of support. At this stage, no final decision has been taken. My firm is in the process of finalizing the proposals. It is only in a second phase that I will take a position with my colleagues in the government. So, to be honest, it takes a little longer than expected. I will present the report on key tasks to Kern. As far as cavalry is concerned, no decision has yet been taken.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic252x.u65	Mr President, having received more answers than I have asked questions, I will not reply!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic252x.u66	Mr President, Minister, I have updated the inquiry following both hearings. I will focus it on the only issue of communication delays. On Thursday, 6 August, AFCN announced that it had decided to draft a pro justitia following the incident that took place on 29 July at Unit 3 of the Tihange power plant. Why did it take eight days for the Agency to publish this information on its site? It also appears that the Agency's website does not list all incidents. Is it a matter of better control of the statistics of the number of incidents on the eve of important decisions? What similar incidents have occurred? On what dates? Why has there not been a systematic survey of these incidents at the AFCN site? On the same 6th of August, the Agency also reported another incident that occurred on Unit 1 of the plant and that occurred on 25 July. It is alluded to an accumulation of human errors. What are these mistakes? How many of them are there? Again, why did it take 12 days for the Agency to publish this information on its website? Electrabel boasts a great deal of transparency in this regard. Did it transmit this information to the Federal Agency and when, in order for the Federal Agency to disseminate the information to the general public with such a delay? The same question deserves to be asked for the July 14 incident on Unit 3. Why did the Agency wait 16 days before reporting on its site? Beyond the Agency's justified criticism of Electrabel's poor management of the Tihange site, is there no reason to question how the Federal Agency manages this type of situation and its limited responsiveness, particularly in terms of the dissemination of information? When I asked Mr Bens at the committee on 19 August, he said: "(...) even if, for this kind of incident, we try to go as quickly as possible, but to put some content in it, it takes a little longer. I'm not surprised it takes two or three days." When I see that it goes from eight to sixteen days, I think it's not possible. There is a problem of speed in the transmission of information and I dare not imagine how this will happen if there is to be a more serious incident. The Agency says it wants to send a strong signal to Electrabel so that they can resume, but how long have we been talking about signals interposed in terms of nuclear safety? Should the concession made by Electrabel the next day be interpreted by means of a press release recognizing a deviation from these agreements with the Agency, as a sufficient counter-signal in your eyes? More broadly, I would like to have your feeling about the seriousness of the situation and the context in which these incidents are multiplying. At a time when some are contemplating extending the oldest power plants beyond their assigned lifespan and, on the other hand, re-launching the cracked power plants on their walls, do you think that Electrabel is in a position to face its immense responsibility in terms of nuclear safety and security? Above all, when we see with what ease this company deals with and manages situations of lesser importance and when we know, moreover, that the parent company seeks to get rid of its nuclear assets on Belgian soil as quickly as possible. You will understand, minister, I look forward to your answers and your clarifications since this inquiry was filed in August.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic252x.u67	Mr Nollet, during his hearing in the nuclear safety sub-committee on 19 August, therefore after your inquiry was filed, Mr Bens explained exactly what had happened in the incidents of 14, 27 and 29 July. He also stated that the PSAN still takes the time to analyze this type of incident before communicating with them. INES 1 or more incidents are systematically published on the AFCN website. Mr Bens was also clear on the reasons for the establishment of a pro justitia. AFCN intervened after finding a lack of rigour and responsibility at the Tihange site. Focus should not be on the specific number of incidents, although some were assessed on the INES scale. The pro justitia focused on the 29 July incident, as it was the only one to constitute a violation of the law. However, the frequency of violations of the technical specifications found is, according to the AFCN, evidence of a general weakening of the safety culture. The Agency fulfilled its role as supervisory authority and imposed corrective measures, which were developed by Mr Bens at his hearing. First, the Agency temporarily withdrew the authorization of four individuals by requiring them to re-enter their training and appear before the Enabling Committee to recover their licence. This has been done in the meantime. Next, AFCN commissioned Electrabel to develop an action plan to strengthen the nuclear safety culture. It has two components. The first includes a series of urgent measures to improve this culture in the short term. The second is a strong medium- and long-term safety culture. The first part was due by September 30th. You have normally already received a copy. As for the second part, Electrabel must introduce it before 15 January next. AFCN will continue to pay attention to the situation and ensure that the safety culture is firmly anchored in the minds of the Tihange nuclear power plant employees. In addition, it ensures the technical security of the facilities in order to ensure the safety of their operation both now and in the future. Operator Electrabel is the primary safety manager for nuclear power plants. But as the case before us illustrates, we have an independent body that verifies that Electrabel is honouring its commitments. She will not hesitate to intervene if this proves necessary. Although there are several layers of defence in-depth in nuclear facilities, one of which is a safety culture, we demand that all these layers work properly.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic252x.u68	Minister, thank you for your answers. I understand that as far as INES measures are concerned, they are only published from INES 1. A transparent publication as one deserves to have in this area would require a publication like in Switzerland of INES 0 incidents. But on the question of the deadline, it is not normal that there should be temporary retention of information. Why eight or sixteen days? Still recently, the 8 September incident was published on 16 September. Could I ask you to suggest that the Agency publish within two or three days, as she herself mentioned in committee? Could you give that instruction?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic252x.u69	In principle, yes, but as I indicated in my answer, before communicating, we must analyse the situation well. Under each circumstance, with each instance, we will get this analysis within two or three days, but on principle, I agree with you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic252x.u70	Thank you for agreeing to give this little instruction. I agree with you, we don't know how to do everything in two or three days, but I've never seen any information disclosed before eight days. All of them are at least eight days old. Good if it changes! On the other hand, there is nothing to prevent AFCN from publishing partial information and then completing it. But waiting eight days to get first information is an issue. Thank you for examining what can be done to improve information in such a situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic252x.u71	My collaborator tells me that messages are still posted two or three days after the incident. He'll provide you with...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic252x.u72	I will see this with him after the committee meeting, because frankly, since July, all statements are made eight or ten days after the incidents.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic252x.u73	Minister, I would like to take stock with you of the various dimensions of the cracks detected on the tanks of the Tihange 2 and Doel 3 reactors. At his hearing on 8 July, Mr Bens stated that Electrabel was finalizing his safety case. Can you tell us what the situation is and what steps still need to be taken? Stranger, on June 10, I was asking you about the fact that the report of the meeting of the International Review Board, which took place at the end of April, was still not published. We are now almost six months after the meeting and the conclusions of the experts who were to decide on the methodology to be used by Electrabel are still not known. What does this delay hide? Are there any exchanges, interactions between the BRI and Electrabel prior to publication of the BRI report? What is the best possible timetable for a final decision on this matter? Of course, I am not asking you to commit yourself to a deadline, but simply to tell us what is the tightest timetable possible by strictly respecting all the steps. Switzerland also had to shut down one of its reactors following the discovery of anomalies after the ultrasonic test similar to that carried out on Doel 3 and Tihange 2. Can you tell us more about this Swiss situation? Has AFCN had any recent contacts with its counterpart since recent information has been released in Switzerland? Given that the Beznau 1 reactor has not been designed and delivered by the same RDM company, the hypothesis of an error specifically related to this company is taking lead in the wing and other assumptions must now be seriously analysed. Can you tell me what is common between Tihange 2, Doel 3 and Beznau 1? Can you tell us how the "MOX hypothesis" is treated in practice in the analysis of the situation in Tihange 2 and Doel 3?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic252x.u74	Mr Nollet, your questions have already been dealt with during the hearing of Jan Bens in the Subcommittee on Nuclear Safety. These responses are available in the Commission's report. The answer to your question No 5944 will give the current status of this file. I can treat him immediately, but the answer is there. The answers to your questions on the Mox hypothesis can be found on pages 24 and 32 of the report of the Subcommittee on Nuclear Safety of 19 August 2015 and in the answer to your oral question No. 2876, which was dealt with on 18 March 2015. All relevant reports have been reprinted specifically for you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic252x.u75	Minister, at the time I put my question, I don't have the answers. Four months ago, there was a gap between the hearings and the committee. Can we deal with this with the elements of the other commission?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic252x.u76	Okay. Regarding the evolution of cracks discovered in the Doel 3 and Tihange 2 tanks, AFCN brought together international experts from the International Review Board to assess the acceptability of the equations performed by Electrabel to predict the irradiated embrittlement of the Doel 3 and Tihange 2 tanks. This means that the BRI had to position itself on the acceptability of only part of the approach proposed by Electrabel to demonstrate the safety of the Doel 3 and Tihange 2 tanks. This expert group met for the first time in early November 2014. At the end of the meeting, the BRI presented its preliminary conclusions orally. The preliminary report of the BRI was received by AFCN in December 2014. The expert group concluded that the approach proposed by Electrabel was not mature and requested further work to support the prediction equations. AFCN independently reached a similar conclusion. Between December 2014 and early April 2015, Electrabel provided additional information reinforcing their approach. At the end of April 2015, the BRI met again to discuss the equations proposed by Electrabel. At the end of the meeting, the BRI presented its findings orally to AFCN. Eight of the nine BRI experts consider the proposed approach and the equations used to estimate the embrittlement of Doel 3 and Tihange 2 tanks under irradiation. The last expert expressed concern about one of the terms of these equations. AFCN has also independently reached the same conclusion as this ninth expert. The International Review Board (IRB) submitted a draft of its final report to the Federal Nuclear Control Agency (FCCA) at the end of May 2015. AFCN forwarded this preliminary report to Electrabel together with its conclusions on the acceptability of Electrabel's complete methodology. The AFCN considered that the demonstration of acceptability of the proposed prediction equation was not yet sufficient and requested further work from Electrabel to justify in detail the worrying term of the proposed equation. AFCN followed the most critical expert for Electrobel's approach. At the end of June 2015, Electrabel presented its arguments and new experimental results supporting the proposed value for the end of the prediction equation and justifying the acceptability of the term of concern. Based on these complementary results, AFCN found Electrobel's methodology acceptable. On July 17, 2015, AFCN advised Electrabel that its safety case, the two-reactor tank safety demonstration file, was eligible for review. In response, Electrabel submitted a preliminary version of this safety box. At the end of August 2015, the BRI submitted the final version of its report. The conclusions remained unchanged between the draft of the report at the end of April and the final version in August 2015. During these months, the experts of the BRI have mainly advanced on two aspects of their report: on the one hand, clarification of their arguments and on the other hand, the formulation and writing of the text to try to minimize the risk of misinterpretation by future readers. The final report of the BRI and the safety case of Electrobel will be published at the same time as the decision of the AFCN on the future of the Doel 3 and Tihange 2 reactors, as has always been announced by the AFCN and as has been done in the past. AFCN had announced to Electrabel in September 2014 that it would address the evaluation of this case in two distinct phases. First, to assess the acceptability of the approach proposed by Electrabel to justify that the indications of defect do not endanger the structural integrity of the vats of the two reactors, i.e. to evaluate the proposed complete methodology. Then, evaluate the results of the application of this methodology. The first stage was therefore closed by the AFCN this summer. The second stage is under way. During this phase, the PSAN uses a variety of stakeholders. BelV and AIB Vinçotte evaluate the safety boxes submitted by Electrabel and will submit their evaluation report to AFCN. In parallel, an American laboratory independently evaluates Electrobel's structural integrity calculations. In parallel, the Belgian expert group evaluates the relevance of the hydrogen hypothesis formulated by Professor Boogaerts of KUL. Based on all these reports, AFCN will draw its conclusions on the future of the two reactors.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic252x.u77	Minister, first of all, I would like to thank you very sincerely for the clarifications you have made. Having said that, I would like to make three or four points. You say that at the end of August, the experts met again to submit a final report and that the conclusion was unchanged. Does this mean that this report has been approved by eight out of nine experts or nine out of nine experts?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic252x.u78	When eight out of nine experts were asked, this was the equation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic252x.u79	At the end of August 2015, the BRI's final report was submitted. Has the report been unanimously agreed or approved by eight of the nine experts?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic252x.u80	I can find out about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic252x.u81	As far as publication is concerned, I do not agree with you, minister. Indeed, in 2013, Electrabel submitted a safety case that was published in February and the Federal Agency made its decision in May 2013. In doing so, it is not correct to say that you are proceeding as in the past, since – I repeat – in 2013, the safety case was published in February and the Agency's decision fell in May. I simply ask you to apply the same procedure as in the past. As you have informed me, what I would like to thank you for, in this case, the safety box arrived on July 17 and it is not yet on the Federal Agency website. In terms of transparency and counter-expertise, this is a problem. I therefore ask you to publish the safety box once it is available, as well as the experts' reports. With regard to the forthcoming timetable, you are telling me that BelV has yet to submit its report. The Americans at Oak Ridge National Laboratory still have to return theirs. You told me it was about mid-September. It's October 21. What then is the timetable in this respect?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic252x.u82	The delay is due to discussions about the contract.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic252x.u83	What's the calendar?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic252x.u84	By the end of this month or November.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic252x.u85	Late October?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic252x.u86	More like November.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic252x.u87	If there are no additional questions from this lab, we could have the lab results in November.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic252x.u88	That makes sense. I come to my question, which you did not answer. The closest deadline for the final decision, then, is January, since everything is out of date?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic252x.u89	To make the decision, we need at least two weeks after the report is submitted.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic252x.u90	Mr President, Minister, the emergency arrest, on the night of Wednesday 12 August to Thursday 13 August, of Reactor 3 of the Tihange power plant comes only a few days after the AFCN wrote a report on various violations at the Hutois site. The incident does not seem to have anything to do with pinned human failures, but would be a new technical problem, this time at the level of the control systems. Is it really more reassuring to know that the emergency shutdown, in the middle of the night, is linked to a failure of the control bar monitoring mechanism when this reactor is barely emerging from a 10-year in-depth review that had put it on hold between 24 March and 12 May? Minister, what exactly is the origin of this brutal judgment? What is the precise reason why the control bar came down into the reactor core? Is this a voltage supply problem for the electromagnet that keeps these bars above the reactor, the source of which would be to look behind the malfunction of one of the two alternators? If so, what is this malfunction due to? Old-age equipment? Why had this defective state not been identified, particularly during the recent 10-year review? What is the risk that this malfunction will be repeated in Tihange 3 but also in other reactors? What measures are in place? Electrabel speaks of a "statistically normal" situation: on average, each reactor would be closed in an emergency once a year. To check this out, can you give us the emergency shutdown statistics for the seven Belgian reactors for the last five or ten years? More specifically for Tihange 3, when was its last emergency closure? The next question supplements the question already tabled by dealing with a new element, brought at the hearing of Mr Bens on 19 August in the nuclear safety sub-committee. Bens said: "The exact cause of the Tihange 3 release is an electrical fault in the system that keeps control clusters out of the heart. It's a passive system. If the electrical tension disappears, the clusters fall. Two circuits supply these electromagnets. A circuit broke down for a reason I don't know yet. We wanted to fix it and it was by preparing this repair that the other circuit started. For the rest, it is still necessary to investigate whether it is an electrical error, a short circuit in the control system. That's for the direct reason that Tihange 3 was triggered." My supplementary question, therefore, is what these additional investigations have done. And in particular, the answer to the questions about why the first circuit broke down and why the second circuit also started.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic252x.u91	Mr Nollet, with regard to your second question, a detailed analysis of the event showed that the first circuit triggered a defect in excitation ruptures due to worn excitation brooms. The second circuit triggered by a drop in voltage following an unexpected paralleling of the two circuits. As far as your first question is concerned, answers have been given in the sub-committee. I'll give you some additional information. The risk of automatic shutdown still exists in our nuclear power plants. Since 2005, Belgian nuclear power plants have had an average of 1.3 automatic shutdowns per year per reactor. An automatic stop is a light transition and goes in the direction of safety. In 2015, an automatic shutdown was noted for the Tihange 1 and Tihange 3 reactors. The last automatic shutdown of the Tihange 3 reactor was on 30 November 2014.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic252x.u92	Minister, you are right to say that most of the elements have been dealt with except for one point. Why could not the defective condition identified later be identified at the time of the 10-year review? I find it strange that when a power plant comes out of a 10-year review, problems are discovered right after.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic252x.u93	The technicians told me that some phenomena are not visible during a review period. The reactor must be in operation to perform these tests.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic252x.u94	In a 10-year review, nothing is visible. Then the reactor starts. An emergency stop occurs. During this stoppage, one discovers a problematic element. Didn't anyone else plan on it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic252x.u95	Indeed, it is during the operation that things can be discovered. During the operation, people notice things that are known to have to be repaired next time. That must be done within a certain time limit. If the power plant fails, the maintenance that had to be done at another time will also be done immediately. It happens all the time.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic252x.u96	I thank the minister and his collaborator, above all, for their response. I am interested in detailed statistics. You've given the average. I would like to have statistics on Tihange 3 of when we had to make emergency stops. So, if you could give me the statistics that made it possible to calculate this average later, it would make it better.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic252x.u97	Mr President, at his hearing on 19 August, Mr Bens announced that, following the incidents, he would examine the problems that have arisen in the past to see whether those that arise today are related to them (page 14). What are the results of this review? He also stated that Electrabel was responsible for conducting an assessment of the root causes of such events. I would therefore like to ask you what, according to Electrabel, these root causes are. Do you share the operator's analysis? Mr. Bens also announced that Electrabel was looking at his action plan and the timing of his action plan, while noting that the AFCN must approve this plan, which will have to bear fruit quickly (pages 15 and 19). What about it? Where is the procedure? Can we have a copy of the approved plan? Finally, he said that he would compile a statistical record of incidents below INES 1 to check if they were on the rise in recent years. What about it? And more generally, what lessons do you learn, as the appropriate minister, from this summer episode?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic252x.u98	Mr Nollet, AFCN asked Electrabel to draw up a short-term action plan by the end of September 2015 and to develop an approach for analysing the root causes of such events by January 2016. In mid-October, AFCN approved the short-term action plan proposed by Electrabel. In the meantime, you had to receive a copy and a list of the number of events at the Doel and Tihange nuclear power plants that were evaluated using the INES scale.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic252x.u99	We did receive the plan. For the list, I want to be sure that this is the list of incidents below INES 1. We first received a list of INES 1 and 2, but not those that are not listed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic252x.u100	It's to limit the number of events, which count in thousands.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic252x.u101	That's the point! Mr. Bens made a commitment to check. He asked Electrabel to check if the number of events below INES 1 was not increasing. I asked to see what was going on. I know it's about thousands, but if it ever is 3,000 this year when it was only 500 three years ago, statistically, it's interesting to know.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic252x.u102	It appears that the criteria have been changed. Comparison between different periods is difficult to establish. Didn't you get the list?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic252x.u103	Yes, but I think it was about INES 1 and 2.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic252x.u104	I suggest you check, then contact my office. The operator Electrabel is the front-line operator in terms of nuclear power plant safety. It must therefore learn from these incidents and implement the action plan. As the case before us illustrates, we have an independent body which verifies that Electrabel is in compliance with its commitments and which will not hesitate to intervene if necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic252x.u105	Minister, I will take the time to analyse the situation taking into account the additional information that your collaborator will give me. Thank you for your answer.
