ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic221x.u1	Madam President, Minister, as you know, it was in 1983, following the call made in 1981, that a few Nobel laureates decided, in order to combat hunger urgently and significantly in East Africa, to set up by the Belgian Parliament the Third World Survival Fund, a fund financed by Belgian Development Cooperation and the Belgian National Lottery, an alternative financing complementary to our country's traditional budget in development cooperation. This first Fund will remain in place until 1998 to be replaced by the Belgian Survival Fund with the same method of financing. For about ten years, the Fund has financed more than 120 projects or project phases in sub-Saharan Africa for a cumulative amount of more than €235 million. In 2010, the Fund finally became the Belgian Food Security Fund (CBSF), still under the leadership of a parliamentary working group. FBSA has attempted to continue to bring real added value to development cooperation by making actions that are difficult to achieve through conventional cooperation, while ensuring, inter alia, compliance with the commitments on harmonization, alignment and results-based management of the Paris Declaration and the Accra Forum, but also by ensuring a balance between national government programmes and the priorities of civil society. In summary, for more than 25 years now, our country has made a remarkable contribution to the fight against poverty and food insecurity in sub-Saharan Africa. Belgian federal parliamentarians have therefore always taken the option of going beyond emergency aid by investing structurally in the responses to hunger. Between 1983 and 2008, more than 500 million euros were invested in more than 150 food security programmes that were led by a wide range of Belgian and multilateral actors, which made our country a leader in food security. Unfortunately, we were able to learn on 25 June last, at an informal meeting of the FBSA, via your Chief of Staff, that you had taken the decision to simply abolish this Fund for 2020, on the pretext of wanting to make it an integrated policy at the global level of Belgian Cooperation. While it is true that the functioning of this parliamentary working group can be optimised, this is a major mistake for the PS Group on a crucial issue, that of improving food security in the world. Since I believe that such an irreversible decision should have been presented to us directly by you, I would like to ask you, minister, the following questions. How do you justify the removal of the FBSA by 2020? How and according to what timetable will the termination of this fund be organised so as not to harm its partners and projects? What will be the impact of this removal on its projects and partners (NGOs and others)? What priority do you give to the theme of the fight for food security in the future? Do you not fear a dilution of the theme on which our country was at the forefront? With this removal, how do you intend to maintain the essential focus on food security? How will we ensure that the expertise of this Fund and its current staff is preserved? What will happen to the budget of the National Lottery and Cooperation which was allocated to this Fund? Will these resources be lost or reinjected into cooperation? Finally, by abolishing this Fund, what Belgian platform will still exist between the administration, parliament and civil society on this crucial issue of food security?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic221x.u2	Minister, the Belgian Food Security Fund has always worked very well and received excellent evaluations. Its flexibility with respect to various projects has always been an asset. During the famine in Ethiopia, too, the fund, as my colleague has said, has done a good job. You now believe that an integrated way of working would be better. A holistic vision you call it. There would no longer be a need for separate food security programmes. For example, a number of projects will not be able to start a second phase and new projects will certainly not be able to begin. The figures have already been mentioned by my colleague, so I will not repeat them. I confirm what my colleague has already said about budgets and figures. And new holistic approach to development cooperation with multi-actors is your new approach. Ecolo-Green is not against this, but synergies and complementary actions are empty concepts if financial implementation is not guaranteed. I am chairman of the Belgian Food Security Fund working group. Of course, I put the importance of food security first. I can support your plans provided that the quantity, quality and financing of food security in your new approach are guaranteed at least at the current level. As long as the funds that are now going through the fund for food security are not guaranteed, I cannot support your proposal. To this day we have seen no guarantees from you. The Ecolo Green Group is disappointed at the extinct scenario of the fund, unless we hear anything about compensation and guarantees that you want to give. You say that food security is a very important pillar of your policy. I'd like to hear that here and confirm it. As President, I have taken some initiatives. I have called the Members of Parliament and the administration twice for consultation, once in the presence of your cabinet and your assistant. It has also been followed that we officially and urgently convened the working party on 16 July. Normally, it's not the habit of getting together at this time of year, but we consider this an emergency. I would like to stress, Minister, that I very much appreciate what you have been looking for in order to free up a moment in these busy weeks, and to come and explain your vision. I hope that you will listen in particular to the concerns of the NGO sector. We are getting a tsunami of e-mails on the subject, there is a great concern. I hope that you will be able to offer some guarantees for the various projects, country by country, and also for the future, preferably today, but certainly on the day of the meeting. How will you guarantee that the quality of the approach of Belgian food security development cooperation will be at least as high as under the Fund, given your statement that food security is a priority for you? How will you guarantee that the quantity, number of partner countries or the population assisted will be at least as high as under the Fund? Our group is not opposed to concentration, but we want the result to be equally broad, equally large and equally large. How will you guarantee that the amount of resources provided for in your food security policy by Development Cooperation will be at least as high as under the Fund? What means do you provide for the extinguishment period and after? Some programmes in a number of countries that I have listed, I will not read them now, there is the greatest uncertainty. How will these programmes continue for each country I have listed? You can certainly explain that on July 16th. I don't need to explain that today. For our group, food security must remain an absolute priority. You promise that this will also be a priority for you. I would like to ask you constructively how you will put that on the agenda in your holistic view? The sector is worried, MEPs are worried. It is a unique working group composed in a unique way with MEPs across party boundaries, with representatives from the NGO sector. What guarantees will you be able to give us that support for food security will remain and not disappear slowly?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic221x.u3	Dear colleagues, thank you for these two inquiries. But there is, in your head, some inconsistency. Indeed, both of you stressed the importance of this working group. You were there, at least at some of the meetings. You say these working groups are important, and on the other hand, your inquiry almost asks me not to respect these working groups. You want to have a discussion about this fund here, while the discussion must take place in this working group. Let's go back to the retroacts. There was a meeting on 28 May 2015 where it was said that a discussion on integration into general policy would be necessary. A meeting was requested with my chief of staff. The working group was held on 25 June. At that time, a discussion with Ministers on this issue was requested prior to the vacation. We choose a date: July 16. I've had some research done. In the past 10 years, no Minister for Cooperation has come to this working group. Now you ask me to come; I come. We're setting a date and in the meantime, you're calling me here. What is the point of asking me to come and meet you on July 16th? I find this approach a little surprising, but it's your right to do it... Some questions are anticipations of a substantive discussion that we should have. The idea of this working group is precisely to be pluralistic, composed of parliamentarians, NGOs, the administration, in short, the Belgian development community. That is the very nature of this working group and you are currently trying to reduce the discussion to a political level, which runs counter to the philosophy of this group. I come to some of your questions. We are clearly looking for a more integrated policy. This is part of our development cooperation policy, because we find that we are too often active in places where we have far too little complementarity. Besides, not just me saying that. If the OECD-DAC analyses our country's development policy, that is the element that is always put forward: the very strong breeding of Belgian policy in the field of development cooperation. This is partly an answer to an analysis I have made, which many Members of Parliament are also making and which has also been made at international level. It is asked whether food security will retain its importance. It is one of the four pillars of my policy. It's in my policy letter and in my policy paper. I have made it very clear that this will remain a very important element. Mrs Grovonius, in your question, you say that I am deleting this fund. Now you're anticipating. The discussion on how best to move towards a unified approach should only take place. You say that a choice has already been made, but that is not the case. That is the purpose of the debate to be held in this working group. I certainly do not deny that the Belgian Food Security Fund is working well. The fund for the last 30 years has done a wonderful job, it has put the theme on the agenda and it has managed to get the issue of food security outside the fund. We have succeeded in making it a concern in all our other interventions, which I believe was the intention. It is not because there is something 30 years that one must assume that one always has to use exactly the same methods. We say that perhaps the fund could operate in a different way, or that the funds that are on the other side will be used in a different way. That is correct, but the result is that the issue will not become less important, but more important. When talking about mainstreaming, it is about the idea that food security becomes an element of all the interventions we make. Mainstreaming food security guarantees that food security becomes more important than it is today. I give you an element to highlight the importance I attach to the subject. As you know, there was a high-level conference in Rome in 2008 on food security. The then Minister for Development Cooperation, who is now part of this government, but in a completely different capacity, has made a commitment to spend 10% of ODA on agriculture and food security in 2010 and 15% in 2015. These ODA figures were recently reviewed in the Platform Agriculture and Food Security. During the second meeting, on 25 June, my head of the cabinet stated that he felt that we should keep those promises. I want to confirm that here. Indeed, I intend to live up to that 15% commitment. This is a very important signal that food security will remain an important issue. In conclusion, you asked me to discuss it. I would like to, but the working group must be respected. Everyone is represented there. I think that is where the real debate must take place. If it were to take place here, we would not respect the working group and we would almost put it before a fait accompli, which would be a shame.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic221x.u4	Minister, the purpose of my inquiry was precisely to avoid being brought before the fait accompli. That is the feeling I had at the last informal meeting of the Belgian Food Security Fund. I wanted the minister to tell us very clearly whether or not this fund, and consequently his working group, could continue in the future. In the end, if you take the decision to abolish the Belgian Food Safety Fund, de facto the working group will no longer exist and we will no longer have the opportunity to discuss it. So I really wanted you to take an official and very clear position on the continuity of this Belgian Food Security Fund. The comments made by your Chief of Staff at the informal meeting I have already mentioned were extremely alarming. He said that the time had come to integrate this issue of food security into Belgian development cooperation as a whole; that this would lead to greater policy coherence; that, as a result, the added value of the Belgian Food Security Fund, as a separate instrument, would therefore be reduced. He also said that our range of instruments should be rationalized, that the instrument should no longer be used as such and that the Belgian Food Security Fund would no longer implement new projects or programmes. Or that the FBSA will be phased out by 2020 and no new funds are foreseen after that date. With this in mind, the two laws relating to the Belgian Food Security Fund will be repealed in the coming years. Minister, I am part of this Belgian Food Security Fund. And all I've just said here is not something we've discussed and decided jointly. Your Chief of Staff, at the last meeting on 25 June, "sold" these decisions to us as if they were already being taken and as if, in any case, the members of the Belgian Food Security Fund had nothing to say. In these circumstances, what other way did I have to come here, in the Committee on External Relations, to ask you to express yourself clearly on these aspects? Unfortunately, there is no other, because the debate was completely confiscated from the members of the Belgian Food Security Fund. In your firm, we obviously already have a very precise idea of what we want to do with this fund. We have a little feeling of being faced with the fait accompli and of having to only endorse a decision that de facto will lead us to see this fund disappear. That is why my group is tabling a motion for a recommendation, obviously calling for the maintenance of the Belgian Food Security Fund. And all those who are present here, because all the components of our Parliament are represented, including the minister, can very freely speak on this motion. I would be pleased if everyone would support the proposal to maintain the Belgian Food Security Fund. And once we have our assurances on the preservation of the Belgian Food Security Fund and the resources allocated to this specific topic, we will then be able to hold the rest of the discussions in the working group on how to improve the functioning of the Fund, how to further integrate this theme into all of the cooperation's programmes and projects. But don't just ask me to make meetings for nothing, within a fund you want to remove. I would be delighted to hear that this is not your intention at all and that this fund will be maintained.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic221x.u5	Mr. Secretary, you're right. It's not because something exists for 30 years that it has to survive. You do not hear me defending the survival of the fund as such. If there are better possibilities, then so be it. I agree with you on that. One should not keep thinking soldierly because something has existed for so many years. All I ask, in my capacity as chairman of this fund, is that there are guarantees of food security. That is what I wanted to hear you say here, and that is what you said. I'd like to see that anchored. That is my objective. If I did not, Minister, I would not be a good chairman of the fund either. I am committed to facilitating the pursuit of the objectives of the fund and to obtaining guarantees on this, in consultation with you. If there are better possibilities than the fund, I'd like to hear them, but we haven't gotten those guarantees yet. Of course, we will then use the political levers that have been granted to us. Secondly, I share the opinion of my fellow Member, Mr Tugendhat, that Members should be able to make recommendations. It's in the law. We were indeed confronted with a clear message from your Head of the Cabinet, Mr Moors, who came down on us like a cold shower and only fed the anxiety. We have had the feeling that a political decision has already been taken. What about our role as a Member of Parliament? How can we make recommendations? Thirdly, I appreciate your coming to the official working group and your efforts to find a date for this. We will indeed continue the discussion there, but you must understand that we Members of this House are also trying to use the levers we have. Finally, I would like to refer to a motion of recommendation, which has been drafted very constructively and which sets out both the survival of the Belgian Food Security Fund and the anchoring and guaranteeing of food security as a priority in your policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic221x.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, there is a very clear distinction between the two points. Mrs Dedry, you stress the importance of the issue of food security and you would like it to be guaranteed and remain an important element. I would nevertheless like to use a number of elements to back that up. Article 19 of the 2013 Act on Belgian Development Cooperation mentions agriculture and food security as one of the four priorities. So that's what the law says. In my policy statement, I also said that food security is a focus. There is, of course, also a role for the Committee on External Relations to continue to question me about this. The difference between your remarks and those of Mrs Grovonius is that the latter focuses on the instrument. It's totally different. Is the theme important? Yes, and it will be even more important in the future than it is today. However, if we want a guarantee on the instrument that will be used, this is a completely different discussion. That's a whole different discussion. That discussion is not a final one, it will take place together with the working group. MEPs and other actors play a role in this. Are Members of this House being called upon to act? Absolutely not. My head of the cabinet has twice explicitly asked the Members present to deliver an opinion. I admit things are moving fast. All due respect for that, but we haven't received any advice yet. Also, Mrs Grovonius, if you say that there is no way for you to play a role, that is not true. We have invited you to give an opinion, which you have not done so far. You used the instrument of the inquiry, very well! But the debate on the most appropriate instrument to use today to have the most effect on an integrated approach, this debate will take place and I await your views on this. Then we will have a substantive discussion in this working group.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic221x.u7	Mr Minister, you have understood that I am focusing as much on the subject as on the tool. What is the reason why I also focus on the tool? Because the creation of this tool has been, at some point, a major step forward which has made it possible not only to highlight this very important theme of food security, but also and above all, through this mechanism, to allocate very specific means to it which enable us to support, in a very concrete way and not only in the principles, the theme which is that of food security. My fear, and I am still not reassured, because I understand that the will to put an end to this Belgian food security fund is very real, my fear is that by removing the tool, the means allocated to it are de facto abolished and that, therefore, the means are diluted in a global way. So, everything that has been done to achieve a specific focus on this issue, all these efforts will be nullified! As far as my opinion is concerned, firstly, the deadline for submission is 16 July. So I'm not late. Secondly, my opinion will be very simple, Minister. That will be the content of the motion. Indeed, I do not see myself starting to discuss how we will be able to reorganise a Belgian food security fund if the decision to abolish it is already taken. That doesn't make any sense. When you tell me that the Belgian food security fund is maintained, I will make proposals to you to improve our work in this fund.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic221x.u8	Minister, those recommendations are on their way. I called on all Members to make the recommendations immediately after the previous sitting. That's what the report says. I have already made an appointment with the two Vice-Presidents, Mrs Van Hoof and Mrs Hufkens, to sit in front of the working group to table these recommendations so that we can see where we are going. [[Mrs. Van Hoof nods to confirm]] Finally, the issue of food security is so important to me that I give you the benefit of the doubt in the wording of my motion and of my speech, but not for long.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic221x.u9	In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. A first motion for a recommendation was tabled by Ms. Gwenaëlle Grovonius and Messrs. Philippe Blanchart and Stéphane Crusnière read as follows: The Chamber, having heard the questionings of Mrs Gwenaëlle Grovonius and Anne Dedry and the response of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Development Cooperation, Digital Agenda, Telecommunications and Post Office, asks the government 1. to maintain the Belgian Food Security Fund beyond 2020 by providing funding at the same level as in 2014 via the National Lottery and Development Cooperation as at present; 2. within the framework of this maintenance, to initiate a reflection with the members of the working group in charge of this fund, the administration and the multilateral organizations and civil society involved in food security in order to reform its functioning and to optimise it with a view to continuing its action and initiating new concrete projects in favour of food security in the world; 3. In line with the Act of 19 March 2013 and the action of the FBSA, to continue to make food security a priority at both budgetary and thematic level for all aspects of Belgian Cooperation for Direct and Indirect Bilateral and Multilateral Development. A first motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Gwenaëlle Grovonius and by Mr Philippe Blanchart and Mr Stéphane Crusnière as follows: The Chamber, heard the interplays of Mrs Gwenaëlle Grovonius and Mrs Anne Dedry and the reply of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Development Cooperation, Digital Agenda, Telecommunications and Post, asks the government 1. maintain the Belgian Food Security Fund beyond 2020 and maintain its funding, as is currently the case, through the National Lottery and Development Cooperation at 2014 level; 2. in the context of this conservation, initiate a reflection exercise with MEPs who are members of the working group that manages that fund, the administration and the multilateral and civil society organisations involved in food security with a view to reforming its functioning and optimising it with a view to continuing its actions and setting up new concrete projects for food security in the world; 3. as a follow-up to the Law of 19 March 2013 and to the actions of the BFVZ, both in the budgetary and thematic field of food security, to continue to make direct and indirect bilateral and multilateral Belgian development cooperation in all its components. A second motion for recommendation was tabled by Ms. Anne Dedry and reads as follows: The Chamber, having heard the questionings of Mrs Gwenaëlle Grovonius and Anne Dedry and the response of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Development Cooperation, Digital Agenda, Telecommunications and Post Office, asks the government to provide guarantees on the quality, quantity and financing of food security projects within the framework of the Belgian Food Safety Fund, but also of the future integrated operation of the Belgian food and agricultural development cooperation policy. A second motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Anne Dedry and reads as follows: The Chamber, heard the interplays of Mrs Gwenaëlle Grovonius and Mrs Anne Dedry and the reply of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Development Cooperation, Digital Agenda, Telecommunications and Post, asks the government guarantees of both quality and quantity, as well as funding for projects that place food security at the heart of both the Belgian Food Security Fund and the future integrated operation within the Belgian food and agricultural development cooperation policy. A simple motion was tabled by Rita Bellens, Nele Lijnen, Els Van Hoof and MM. Jean-Jacques Flahaux, Peter Luykx and Tim Vandenput. A simple motion was tabled by ladies Rita Bellens, Nele Lijnen and Els Van Hoof and by Mr Jean-Jacques Flahaux, Peter Luykx and Tim Vandenput. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic221x.u10	Madam President, Minister, in April 2014, the House adopted a motion for a resolution, of which I was one of the authors, calling for respect for fundamental human rights and decent working conditions on the construction sites of the World Cups. It was after the workers' scandal of Qatar, the organizing country of the 2022 World Cup. FIFA then declared itself concerned, but a priori not responsible, with this situation. Meanwhile, corruption, waste and violations of social rights continued to spark the successive World Cups. This is evidenced by the limitation of the rights of workers assigned to the 2018 World Cup construction sites in Russia or by the hallucinating figures of deaths on Qatari construction sites. It is against this background that the new scandals related to the management of FIFA must serve as a stepping stone for a complete overhaul of the International Federation into a much more ethical and transparent organization. This is the sine qua non to be able to impose responsible ethical and social standards on all World Cup candidates. Whatever the results of the FIFA-led elections, they must be an opportunity to take a deep look at FIFA's troubled past in order to return to a foundation of values that respect social rights: decent working conditions, decent wages, respect for standards of loyalty, and I move on. While sports competence is in the hands of the federated entities, diplomatic responsibility depends on the federal level. This therefore calls for a strong reaction from our Belgian diplomacy. The aim is to stop intervening and to reflect on a case-by-case basis, on each sporting event or non-international event, on denunciations of situations relating to human rights, workers' rights or freedom of expression. On the contrary, there is a need for a much more global reflection since, let us recall, the 2018 World Championship is to take place in Russia. Why should we always indignize ourselves a posteriori when events are attributed to a particular country? While the values of events such as the World Cup or the Olympic Games are essential, they can only be realized when they take place in a country that fully respects them at all times, otherwise they will appear as a dangerous lure and precedent at the international community level. Similarly, they can only make sense when they are organized by federations, transparent international structures, unlike the image currently given by FIFA, for example. For the PS group, if the total sporting boycott of such events would be totally counterproductive, the organisation of an international event of this scale must be a lever to promote essential values such as respect for human rights, social and environmental conditions or freedom of expression. Minister, how do you look at the problem of selecting host countries for international events such as the World Cup or the Olympic Games? How could these procedures, to which Belgium is a party, be improved towards more ethics and transparency? How does Belgian diplomacy work to defend human values, social and environmental standards and transparency in the selection of these host countries? How does Belgian diplomacy stand in relation to the current FIFA scandal?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic221x.u11	Madam President, Mr Blanchart, I obviously share your view that a boycott of sporting events would be counterproductive – I have pointed out this on several occasions. On the contrary, I believe that these events are useful opportunities to engage in a dialogue on social rights as well as on the environmental and ethical issues to which you referred. I recall that FIFA is an international association composed of 209 national associations including the Royal Belgian Union of Football Societies, an association representing Belgium. Similarly, the International Olympic Committee (IOC) is at the head of the Olympic movement, which, in addition to the IOC, is composed of international sports federations and 204 national Olympic committees, including the Belgian Olympic and Interfederal Committee (COIB), which represents the Olympic movement and its values in our country. Belgian diplomacy therefore has no role to play in the selection of the host countries of the World Cup or the Olympic Games, matters which, on the one hand, do not fall within its competence and, on the other hand, are managed by private bodies where national federations and not the public authority represent our country. This does not prevent us from supporting Belgian applications when they are submitted. This is another approach in communication, in general. As I have already explained, this also does not prevent us from ensuring that Belgian diplomacy is active in the field of human rights in the countries you are quoting. In particular, based on the selections for the upcoming World Cups, I have had the opportunity in recent months to discuss the situation of workers in a number of specific projects, such as the human rights situation more generally on multiple occasions. We do so either bilaterally or through the action of the European Union and, of course, in a political, diplomatic and non-sporting context. With regard to your question about the situation in some international federations, I would like Justice to do its job. Investigations are currently under way. It is up to the judicial authorities to complete these investigations and to take the appropriate decisions. It will then be up to the sports federations to reorganize themselves and, probably, to implement important reforms. In this context, I do not hide from you that a dialogue with the federations representing Belgium is important. It can be done at the departure of the direct managers of the sport. I am thinking of the authorities of the Communities who have direct responsibility for sports. But it can also be done through my department. We have contacts with the heads of these federations, as this could also be done through contacts that Parliament could have with these federations, although I do not want to get involved in the speech agenda. I see that there are a lot of questions on these issues lately. Perhaps it would be useful for the Committee on External Relations to meet with the representatives of the federations mentioned. I am talking about the situation in the world of football on the one hand and the Olympic Committee on the other. This would allow you to have an exchange on what these federations, these Belgian representatives can very concretely develop as initiatives within international structures. For our part, we are acting in bilateral contacts with the countries concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic221x.u12	Minister, thank you. In the spirit of what needs to be put in place, we have a reflection that is interspersing. The work of Belgian diplomacy must indeed be carried out in an inflexible manner in order to claim a number of rights over which one must be intractable. I stress the need for systematic dialogue with the organising countries when these events are publicised and contested a posteriori, which is still the case. I have tabled a motion, which is in the process of being signed, to advocate a complete overhaul of FIFA, to make it more transparent and ethical, respecting more decent wages, working conditions and the standards of the International Labour Organization. The purpose of this motion is also to recall that the Olympic Committee, FIFA or other international organisations and cupolas must be in line with the values they advocate. Finally, it aims to ensure that our country adopts an inflexible position on the demand for social, environmental and human rights, as well as on freedom of expression and the attribution of major events. I also agree with your proposal to invite representatives of major international cupolas such as FIFA or the Olympic Committee to this committee to discuss these ethical issues. That's a good idea. I suggest, Madam Chair, that we acknowledge that the minister's proposal fully supports the concern that we have to meet with representatives of these organizations.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic221x.u13	In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. A motion for recommendation was tabled by Ms. Gwenaëlle Grovonius and Mr. Philippe Blanchart and reads as follows: The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Mr Philippe Blanchart and the response of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Foreign and European Affairs, responsible for Beliris and the Federal Cultural Institutions, asks the government 1. to advocate, through all possible diplomatic relations, for a total overhaul of FIFA into a much more ethical and transparent organization in order to ensure that all Member States and all candidates for the World Cup organisers respect ethical and socially responsible standards (decent working conditions, decent wages, ILO standards, etc.).); 2. call on international organisations and cupolas, such as FIFA or the International Olympic Committee, to fully implement the values and charters to which they refer in their follow-up to the application and organisation of events, including sporting events, of an international dimension; 3. take Belgium's inflexible position on the requirement of a foundation of values that respect social rights (decent working conditions, decent wages, ILO standards, etc.) as indispensable to the organisation of this type of event, stressing that the total boycott of international sporting events, such as the World Cup or the Olympic Games, would be counterproductive and ineffective since only athletes suffer and only a politico-diplomatic reaction is required in the face of such situations; 4. to advocate for a coherent Belgian, European and international position in the application, selection and, ultimately, attribution of international events, including sporting events, in the light of human rights, freedom of expression (Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms of 4 November 1950) and social and environmental conditions. A motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mrs Gwenaëlle Grovonius and Mr Philippe Blanchart and reads as follows: The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mr Philippe Blanchart and the reply of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Foreign Affairs and European Affairs with responsibility for Beliris and the Federal Cultural Institutions, calls on the Government 1. promote, through all possible diplomatic means, the transformation of FIFA into a much more ethical and transparent organisation in order to ensure that all Member States and all candidate countries of the World Cup respect ethical and socially responsible standards (decent working conditions, decent wages, ILO standards, etc.).); 2. call on international organisations such as FIFA or the International Olympic Committee to effectively implement the values and charters to which they refer in their reports on progress in the candidacy and organisation of international events, in particular sporting events; 3. adopt a rigid position as a country with regard to the requirement of a number of basic values with respect for social rights (decent working conditions, decent wages, ILO standards, etc.) as an absolute necessity for the organisation of such events, stressing that a total boycott of international sporting events, such as the World Cup or the Olympic Games, would be counterproductive and ineffective, as only athletes would suffer and only a political-diplomatic response would be appropriate for such issues; 4. call for a coherent Belgian, European and international position on human rights, freedom of expression (the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms of 4 November 1950) and social and environmental criteria in the candidacy, selection and also the final allocation for the organisation of international events, in particular sporting events. A simple motion was tabled by Sarah Claerhout, Nele Lijnen and MM. Jean-Jacques Flahaux, Peter Luykx and Tim Vandenput. A simple motion was tabled by ladies Sarah Claerhout and Nele Lijnen and by Mr Jean-Jacques Flahaux, Peter Luykx and Tim Vandenput. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic221x.u14	Mr Deputy Prime Minister, my question is a little old since it dates from 4 February and we are eminently in a region where everything is evolving, unfortunately not always well. From 26 to 29 January 2015, a "advisory meeting" was held in Moscow between Syrians under the aegis of Russian diplomacy in order to bring this country out of the crisis in which it has been in since 2011. Unfortunately, all this remains relevant. The National Coalition of Syrian Revolutionary and Opposition Forces refused to participate in this meeting, because of Russia's support for the Bashar al-Assad regime and its willingness to maintain the current regime. As evidence, no political parties were invited, no high-level officials were present, starting with the Syrian Foreign Minister. Individuals were just invited to validate the document in ten points, pre-edited by Vitaly Naumkin, President of the Institute of Orientalism of the Russian Academy of Sciences. This catalogue of good resolutions was not intended to challenge Bashar al-Assad's leadership. He referred to the protection of Syria's sovereignty at the same time as defending the rule of law and the equality of all citizens, respect for democracy and the fight against international terrorism. However, he ignored the central points in Geneva to achieve those objectives, namely, the establishment of a transitional governing body, the restructuring of the army, the changes to be made to the missions of the security services, which was the reason why it was rejected by most opponents. Can you tell us what is the status of the opposition to the existing Syrian power with regard to the definition of a common position that could contribute to the resolution of the Syrian crisis, while one side refuses to participate in a meeting in Moscow, when others are ready to endorse Russian positions? Can you tell us what the European chancelleries and the High Representative for External Affairs and Security of the European Union, Mrs Mogherini, are doing to achieve a common position of the various forces involved and to make progress towards achieving the objectives set by the Geneva meeting? Can you inform us about the reality of the Syrian regime's response to Daesh's invasion of its territory or what I prefer to call the 'Naz Islamists', and therefore, if it really should be considered, at the very least, as a reliable and effective opponent of Islamist terrorism? I would add that the news has obviously changed over the last five months, since the Syrian rebels are launching the attack on Aleppo, which is a stronghold of the regime. The advance of the military guerrillas leads us to fear even for the short-term future of the Syrian regime, albeit detestable, but which, as one MEP said, is a sort of bulwark against the 'Naz Islamists'.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic221x.u15	Mr Flahaux, the talks that took place in Moscow in late January and early April brought together representatives of the Damascus regime and members of the opposition, but mainly on an individual basis. Indeed, the Syrian Opposition Coalition (SOC), which is the opposition organization, did not participate as such. There were no very concrete results, but a text, the "Moscow Principles", demanding respect for Syria's independence and territorial integrity, calling for increased humanitarian assistance measures and for the end of economic sanctions. But it is clear that Russia's role in supporting the Damascus regime has not facilitated the rapprochement between opposition representatives and regime representatives. With regard to Belgium, like the European Union, at the Foreign Affairs Council on 9 February, High Representative Mogherini presented the Union's regional strategy for conflicts in Syria and Iraq, as well as for the fight against Daesh or the Islamic State of Iraq and al-Sham (ISIS). At the Council meeting on 16 March, a month later, this strategy was formally approved. An important part of the strategy is devoted to a political settlement of the conflict in Syria, on which the European Union supports the efforts of the Special Envoy of the United Nations Secretary-General, Staffan de Mistura, as well as the mediation efforts that are organised either locally or internationally. The discussions launched by Staffan de Mistura began again - there had already been in the past - on May 5. They're going to last a while longer. We simply need to increase the pressure on the Damascus regime. The European Union is committed to strengthening its humanitarian assistance. On the negotiations, it is clear that there is a need to discuss with representatives of the Damascus regime. We had done so during the first discussions in Geneva. Everyone agrees that the Geneva 1 text is still the most concrete basis for moving towards a political transition. That being said, it does not mean that we are discussing with President Assad himself or that we recognise him any role in the transition or in a future solution. He has committed so much barbarism towards his own people that we do not see how he could still play a role, in any case from the perspective of a solution agreed to by all the parties. To have representatives of the Alawite community and the Damascus regime around the table is indispensable. We've done it in the past. The second attempt at Montreux was in the same direction. By hearing comments on the role that the Damascus regime could play in blocking Daesh's progress, we can also ask ourselves the question of President Assad's responsibility for the emergence of terrorist groups like these and the ability through the massacres he has perpetrated to see a number of terrorists intervene. On the humanitarian side, the commitment is complete. This morning we contacted the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration, Theo Francken, about the fact that in the last two months, despite all the European debates in which we are trying to convince our partners to make more efforts together to receive Syrian refugees - Belgium has already welcomed more than 5,500 refugees and we are ready to do more, we have communicated it to the European Commission - despite all this, we have just conducted an operation that allowed us to welcome 244 refugees from Aleppo to Belgium (this ended on 4 July). In Aleppo, the pressure had become dreadful. Christian minorities had become targets for a number of groups fighting in the region. The first victims of the conflicts in Syria and Iraq are the Muslim communities. We have welcomed people from Syria, regardless of their convictions or origin. We did this through transfers of people from the camps. There are camps in all neighbouring countries: Turkey, Lebanon, Jordan. We also did so by welcoming people in Belgium who were already on European territory and in the Schengen area. At the initiative of a number of organizations, we chose to take an additional step by directly welcoming people who were still present in Aleppo two months ago. Between the beginning of May and 4 July, the operation was completed. I really want to thank our teams in Beirut, like all the services and departments of the Asylum and Migration in Belgium that allowed us to carry out this operation by granting visas and a protection status to 244 people. They are mostly families with children, sometimes with grandparents not to leave people alone in Aleppo. This may seem like a drop of water in a drama as important as that of Syria. But this demonstrates Belgium's willingness to be a very active actor on the humanitarian front. I am very pleased that the associations and people who helped us conduct this operation are now continuing to participate in the reception in Belgium. This at the local level through training and accompaniment. For the rest, I hope that, in spite of everything, the negotiations can lead to a political transition. But that does not prevent us from having to carry out this kind of humanitarian action a little exceptional, but which demonstrates our willingness to be a very active actor on the Syrian ground.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic221x.u16	Deputy Prime Minister, it is true that Syria is a real ink bottle, a Chinese puzzle! The situation is changing from day to day and, unfortunately, not in the direction of simplification. You have rightly drawn our attention – I would like to take this opportunity to congratulate the government on this – to the assistance provided on the ground to the refugees, but also to the reception of Syrians coming directly from their country. Moreover, it is known that Syria's impact on Lebanon has always been significant. Of course, the destructuring of that country could have consequences for Lebanon. I also referred to the role of Russia to which you also referred. One might wonder whether she was not changing her position as all her diplomatic staff had been repatriated to Moscow. In general, this kind of decision is always a sign of something. Finally, the political strategy must be our priority. However, in view of the situation on the ground, one wonders whether this will still be possible, even if we must continue to believe in it. Still, for the time being, it is only a question of military ground or guerrilla warfare, which is extremely worrying.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic221x.u17	Ladies and gentlemen, since we have a rather heavy agenda, I would ask you to keep the questions and answers limited. The Rules of Procedure state that the total speaking time for questions and answers is five minutes and for reply and answer two minutes. Since there are so many questions on the agenda, and I suppose this will be the case in the future, I would ask everyone to stick to the time.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic221x.u18	Madam President, I confess that I have been a little long but Syria is a particularly complicated and evolving problem. So I'll try to be shorter. Mr Deputy Prime Minister, at the end of last year, the dictator – there is no other term – Robert Mugabe had ordered the United States and the European Union to abandon sanctions against Zimbabwe and itself. My question from February is now partly done, since as the new President of the African Union, he will benefit from the lifting of one of the sanctions, the one prohibiting him from travelling on the territory of the European Union. Many consider this appointment to the rotating presidency of the African Union as a nose to the West, which sees Mugabe as a pariah. After all, however, Saudi Arabia is clearly visible at the United Nations Human Rights Committee. Everything is possible! Others speak of "unfortunate hassard." The presidency was to go back to a candidate from Southern Africa, and Mugabe was the only one to run. We are therefore entitled, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, to ask ourselves what the message the countries of Africa are sending to us. On the other hand, some argue that the African Union has become non-existent at the international level for some time and is largely unable to cope with the many problems it faces, such as Boko Haram or Ebola, the latter having been solved. Mr Deputy Prime Minister, how do you see the development of Belgium's relations, bilaterally or within the framework of the European Union, with the country of Mr Mugabe, on the one hand, and with the African Union, on the other? Do you think that this new presidency will bring about major policy changes on the part of the African Union? How do you reconcile this need to lift the sanction against the representative of the African Union for obvious diplomatic reasons and the lax message sent to the Grabatary dictators who have been hanging in power in Africa for decades and who are flouting human rights and freedoms? I am thinking of those presidents who have been clinging to power for more than 30 years, as is the case in Equatorial Guinea, Angola and Cameroon in particular. I would understand very well that, as Minister of Foreign Affairs, you had to give me a diplomatic response.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic221x.u19	Madam President, my colleague, Belgium subscribes to the European Union's policy towards Zimbabwe. This is a gradual re-engagement, following the lifting on 1 November 2014 of the measures taken under Article 96 of the Cotonou Agreement. The end of these measures allows for a more comprehensive approach to Zimbabwe through a more structured dialogue on policies, the rule of law and democracy, human rights, macroeconomic stability and improving the investment climate. The government's response to Harare is constructive, as has been demonstrated, inter alia, by the consultations on the National Indicative Programme. The termination of the measures taken under Article 96 of the Cotonou Agreement enabled Zimbabwe to obtain European aid under the Eleventh European Development Fund (EDF). The national indicative programme worth 234 million for the period 2014-2020 focuses on health care, economic development based on agriculture, good governance and institution-building. On the other hand, restrictive measures against human rights and fundamental freedoms do not seem to have to be affected by the ongoing review process and continue to negatively influence relations between the European Union and Zimbabwe. Belgium's institutional relations with the African Union pass again, especially through the European Union. In recent years, relations have gradually become more important. Thus, the European Union is a crucial partner of the African Union in the fight against Al-Shabaab in Somalia. In addition, the European Union is the largest donor to the African Union for its African-led international support mission to the Central African Republic. Belgium will continue to maintain close contact with the African Union Commission on priority African issues for our country. I am thinking in particular of the elections in Burundi and the Great Lakes dossier where the African Union, together with the United Nations, is the vice-chairman of the Addis Ababa Framework Agreement. The presidency of the African Union is elected for a period of one year. In general, the President's influence on the functioning and policy of the African Union Commission is relatively modest. President Mugabe's advanced age and his country's multiple domestic challenges will undoubtedly also have an impact on how he will fulfil his role as President. I therefore do not expect major policy changes within the African Union. That said, it is true that, like the election of the Libyan leader, Muammar Gaddafi, as head of the African Union in 2009, the appointment of Robert Mugabe to tarnish the good work that the African Union has undertaken in recent years is almost obvious. I fear, therefore, that the organization's reputation will be damaged. With regard to sanctions, this is not a lifting of sanctions but a political agreement on the possibility of an exemption from the travel ban. I could give you the text of the decision taken. Through the exemption, the European Union allows for a more normal functioning and demonstrates its respect for the sovereign decisions of the African Union, an important partner. It also sends a measured signal to Zimbabwe, not lifting sanctions, but not closing the door to a gradual re-engagement. The European Union's decisions in this area are taken unanimously and Belgium is endeavouring to adopt a constructive attitude. Since meetings between the European Union and the African Union, at the level of the Presidents, are not currently envisaged, the issue is still theoretical at this stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic221x.u20	Mr Minister, from the point of view of the African Union, it is extremely important to help organize cooperation within Africa, especially since we know very well that the frontiers of decolonization are those of colonization and do not correspond to the reality of the facts. The more joint organizations between African countries, the more desirable it is, even if the signal of the election of Mr Gaddafi first, and then of Mr Mugabe, are somewhat damaging signals. As far as Zimbabwe is concerned, Zimbabwe is in an extremely serious economic situation. It is enough to observe that it takes millions of their motto to carry out simple small races. We should try to improve things, despite the difficulties, the autocratic nature of its president. I note positively that it seems that in recent times the fires of "white" farms in particular have decreased sharply. There were also illegal occupation movements. All this seems a little better. Human rights and democracy remain major problems, since we know that the opposition was, in a way, stolen from its victory in the last elections. I thank you for your attention to this country, as well as to the African Union to which we are close.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic221x.u21	Mr President, my question relates in particular to the state of play. The government agreement states that a first National Business and Human Rights Action Plan will be developed, in cooperation with the competent departments and entities. Your policy statement also goes into this. This plan is intended to operationalise the UN directive for companies, the Ruggie Framework, which promotes action points on human rights for businesses. A preliminary draft was already prepared during the previous legislature and a stakeholder survey was organised last year. The Federal Council for Sustainable Development is currently awaiting the draft version of the National Action Plan in order to continue its work. Mr Minister, I have the following questions. What steps will you take in 2015? What's the timing ahead of you?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic221x.u22	Minister, my question also concerns this National Business and Human Rights Action Plan. What's the status of his writing? What are the broad guidelines and objectives? What actions are planned to achieve them? What are the indicators to assess their sustainable impact?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic221x.u23	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, my administration is working actively with the Federal Institute for Sustainable Development and in close cooperation with colleagues from other federal administrations and institutions, as well as with the Communities and Regions, to develop a first Business and Human Rights action plan as thoroughly and quickly as possible. The preparation of a national action plan for the Member States is also required at EU level. Of course, this action plan is one of the priorities of my human rights policy for 2015. As you know, my administration has been working on the file since 2013. The issue is complex and there are many stakeholders involved: in addition to the various authorities, of course our companies, the trade unions and civil society. This is why a broad, transparent and flexible approach was adopted. In concrete terms, the discussions on the National Action Plan take place within the Working Group on Corporate Social Responsibility of the Interdepartmental Commission for Sustainable Development, chaired by the Federal Institute for Sustainable Development. There is the substantive expertise. In 2014, this working group sent out a survey of stakeholders to more than 50 civil society organisations, including organisations representing companies and trade unions. The results of this survey can be found on the website of the Interdepartmental Commission for Sustainable Development (ICDO). Based on the answers to this survey and an analysis of the current Belgian situation with regard to the 31 UN directives in question, a core team of the working group is currently working on a first draft action plan. We will continue consultations with the regions which also have an important role to play in this context. In due course, a consultation on this draft will take place with all stakeholders, including the competent national advisory councils. Workers' rights have been identified as one of the priority areas to be analysed and addressed both at the state of play and at the level of the action plan itself. In addition, this plan will also provide an opportunity to reaffirm commitments made in other forums than that of the Human Rights Council, which overlap with the same principles, such as the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development or the International Labour Organization. The action plan aims to raise awareness among our companies, which are not yet aware of respect for human rights in their own right, but also in their supply chains. When we send a draft for consultation to the various national committees and committees of opinion, I propose that it also be sent to the House's Committee on External Relations.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic221x.u24	Madam President, I have no further comments. We'll read it when it appears.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic221x.u25	Minister, the text is intended to establish a binding international treaty, which would require transnational companies to respect the social, economic, democratic and human rights of persons present in the countries and regions in which they operate. This text currently being discussed at the UN Human Rights Council does not really meet with much support from the European Union and its Member States. Clearly, our country does not support it any more. From what I was able to read, we opposed it. Moreover, at the recent meeting, no one represented Belgium on the UN Human Rights Council. Unfortunately, I fear that the Human Rights and Enterprise Action Plan will only benefit the name and not go far in what we want to implement in Belgium. I hope I'm wrong.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic221x.u26	These are two completely different things. We are talking about a national action plan. You are referring, as I saw on Twitter, to a campaign carried out because Belgium would be absent from discussions at the United Nations about an initiative by Ecuador and South Africa that we do not share at all. It is voluntary that, together with many other European States, we have chosen not to participate in this discussion on a project that does not correspond at all to the initiatives we wish to take. I can understand that a number of NGOs spend their time pretending that human rights are not being debated. We are preparing a national action plan. We are in line with the logic followed by the European Union, but we do not agree - and this very often happens at the United Nations - with an initiative taken by two countries: Ecuador and South Africa. I invite you to read the initiative and you will then see the obvious reasons why we do not agree with this approach.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic221x.u27	That is what I am saying, I have the greatest fears about the content of this Belgian action plan on human and business rights, especially after what you have just said. I do not see how Belgium should oppose the implementation of binding international rules to require transnational companies to respect social, economic, democratic and human rights. Maybe we can talk about it again. This is all the more worrying given the debate we have had this morning on the minerals of conflict and the position taken by the majority on this point, which I believe is contrary to the most fundamental human rights that we would have to defend.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic221x.u28	Madam President, Minister, Libya has asked the United Nations Security Council to lift the arms embargo against the country in order to be literally better armed in the fight against terrorist organisation IS. The government asked for this in response to the decapitation of 21 Egyptian heads in Libya. The Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Libyan Government believes there is a need for more equipment and weapons to stop terrorism. He did not ask for military intervention, but rather asked for assistance to neighbouring Egypt, which, moreover, would prepare a corresponding resolution for the UN Security Council. Meanwhile, since I submitted the question, we know that Tunisia is building a 170 km wall on the Libya border to stop the IS fighters. So there seems to be a very concrete need. Hence my questions, Minister. Can you explain Belgium's position on the question of lifting the arms embargo? Russia has already said that it would possibly supply weapons. You know the risk, too. Who do the weapons end up with when we deliver them? Secondly, under what circumstances do you consider lifting the arms embargo a useful element in the fight against IS? Thirdly, can you estimate the current strength of IS in Libya? They would have taken coastal cities and so on. Can you confirm that? What is the way out of a conflict in a country with de facto two or more governments, with a struggle between militias? Is a short-term or medium-term political unity possible in Libya?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic221x.u29	Minister, I will not go back to the tragedy of April and the many victims who gave a sad echo to the two questions I asked you in November about the situation in Libya. I asked you about the mission launched by Mr Leon, the United Nations Special Envoy, to bring about a political and peaceful solution to the conflict in Libya, as well as about the spread of the Islamist scourge on the territory. What is the status of this mediation attempt? Would the parties involved be close to a final agreement that could lead to a government of national unity? Can you tell us more about the progress of these negotiations? The Commission has submitted a series of ten emergency measures to deal with the migrant crisis in Europe. The Libyan file is on it. What diplomatic initiatives are you considering in this regard? What relay do you have? According to a Libyan government adviser, jihadists would appear to be migrants in order to win Europe. They would thus infiltrate the old continent by means of clandestine boats. Recall that the Libyan branch of the Islamic State has made itself known worldwide by beheading on a beach 21 Egyptians. The executioners had then placed Europe in their sights by proclaiming: "Today we are south of Rome on the Muslim land of Libya." Some claim that the Islamic State has no interest in investing in the sending of clandestine fighters from Libya. It is much more interesting to call on sympathizers who are already in Europe or to send jihadists with European passports. Minister, how do you look at this announcement? In your opinion, is it an alarmist statement aimed at attracting attention, a real warning or in a way for the government of Tobruk, the only executive recognized by the international community, to strengthen its position internally?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic221x.u30	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the crisis in Libya has a direct impact on Europe, as the tragic events in the Mediterranean unfortunately demonstrate. In reply to questions about the refugee crisis, I go into these aspects of the Libyan problem in more detail. Living conditions in the country are gradually deteriorating. Both sides, assisted by militias who sometimes follow their own agenda, continue to oppose. Several local and tribal conflicts are further complicating the situation. The humanitarian situation remains serious: half a million internally displaced persons out of a population of five million Libyans, while nearly one million refugees are in Tunisia. There are shortages of medicines, water and electricity. Increasing insecurity hinders access to populations and has led most international humanitarian workers to leave the country. The lack of NGOs on the ground limits the ability of the international community to act and access information for needs assessment. In recent months, the UN Special Envoy for Libya, Mr Bernardino León, managed to keep the dialogue process going. Several dialogue sessions were held in Morocco, Algeria and Brussels to prepare an agreement between the warring parties leading to the establishment of a government of national unity. At the end of April, Special Envoy León submitted a draft agreement to the parties. This text is now being worked on, with the support of the international community. The parties met in Berlin on 10 June and in Morocco on 25 June. However, there are still many obstacles on the way to an agreement. The polarization between the two main camps remains very real, while divisions exist within each of them. In addition, regional actors have their own agendas. It communicates with the countries concerned in order to encourage their interlocutors in Libya to participate constructively in the negotiations. It is crucial that a government of national unity be established as soon as possible to stabilize the country and meet the many challenges. Terrorist networks, including Al-Qaeda and the Islamic State group, are using a lack of effective control by the authorities. In recent months, the Islamic State Group has consolidated in Libya in the Sirte region and in Derna and is active around Tripoli and Benghazi. According to our compatriot Gilles de Kerchove, coordinator of the European Union for the fight against terrorism, terrorist networks benefit from lucrative irregular immigration systems. Although there are risks and we are vigilant, there is no indication, Mr Blanchart, that the terrorists themselves have used these very dangerous maritime routes to reach Europe. You will remember that at the end of February a proposal was circulated to certain members of the UN Security Council to lift the arms embargo for the government so that it could better cope with IS. Others feared these weapons would fall into the wrong hands. Finally, on 27 March, Resolution No. United Nations Security Council 2214 which focuses on counter-terrorism and expresses serious concern about the threat to international peace and security by, inter alia, IS. All UN Member States are encouraged to combat terrorist organisations. The Libya Sanctions Committee is invited to consider urgently requests to supply arms to the Libyan government for military use to combat IS. This goes far less than lifting the arms embargo, which Belgium has always been opposed to. I have always followed the same reasoning regarding the end user of a possible arms supply. The Member States of the European Union are aware of the importance of the stability of Libya, which has been on the agenda of each of the Union's Foreign Affairs Councils since October 2014. This has enabled the Union to send a continuous and coherent political message to Libyan and regional actors. The role of the Union is, first of all, to support Bernardino León's efforts and to encourage all Libyan parties to participate in the ongoing political dialogue. It will then have to support the results of the mediation process under the aegis of the United Nations. It is currently examining how the means at its disposal can be used in support of a government of national unity which, I repeat, has not yet been established.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic221x.u31	Minister, I believe that those who were still in doubt have recently discovered that Libya is very close. Moreover, water is an area that is easy to bridge, and this is demonstrated by the fact that a permanent route has developed following the collapse of the Libyan regime. I must not convince you of the importance of all this, even for our own safety. I hope you find a way out. You have quite rightly said that lifting an arms embargo is not obvious because we never know the end user of a weapon. We have already caused a great deal of misery by indirectly supplying weapons to the wrong people. However, this should not prevent creativity from trying to help people and regimes who want to fight against IS with us.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic221x.u32	Minister, thank you for your answers regarding the jihadist channels and the routes they use. I agree with what my colleague says when it comes to ensuring our own safety in this area. The situation is more than disturbing. I am not reassured because we know that local and tribal conflicts are at their peak, people lack water and food. It is difficult to rebuild under such conditions. A restoration of peace seems impossible without a rule of law, without institutional stability. It is the keystone for a long-term solution for Libya. I am concerned when I hear that Mr León's attempts to mediate are still happening and that the situation is not changing. Libya is one of the hubs of the problem of this radicalization and international violence.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic221x.u33	Mr Luykx is sorry.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic221x.u34	Madam President, Minister, my first question concerns the movements of the Russian army. The Russian army has undertaken large-scale military exercises in several regions of Russia, including 8,000 gunners in Crimea and the south-eastern part of the country, near the border with Ukraine. This series of military exercises, which lasted until the end of March, involved the deployment of soldiers to the annexed Crimean peninsula, Armenia and the two Georgian separatist republics of Abkhazia and South Ossetia. At the same time, the Russian Navy launched several separate operations. The Black Sea fleet, based in Crimea, simulated the attack of an enemy navy while the Baltic fleet, based in the North, faced a fictitious air attack. In central Russia, about 200 tankists trained to besiege a city. In Siberia, air units train to respond in a practical way to electronic warfare. In short, approximately 40,000 military personnel participated in these exercises, as well as some 40 warships and 15 submarines. Russia is used to major military manoeuvres, but they usually take place in a single region, with a specific military objective. Minister, where are we today? While tensions between the West and Russia over Ukraine are at their peak, how did you perceive these manoeuvres? How has NATO positioned itself against them? What were the objectives of this operation? My second question concerns the Moscow blacklist. There were various reactions to the publication of the list of 89 Western political figures now banned from Russian territory. The existence of this list was known but its composition was unknown. Both proud and outraged to be included, for the majority of them, the persons targeted would have expressed their opposition in principle to Russian politics, without specifying exactly what this concept really covers. According to some, it is mainly a matter of Moscow to apply the blow-for-kick principle in response to Western sanctions. The deadline for the latter falls on 31 July. Their possible extension was to be discussed at the June summit of the European Union. The subject remains particularly political and intellectual. What are the Belgians on this list? How did you interpret and react to this announcement? In your opinion, what could be the impact? In this context, how were discussions on the future of Western sanctions against Russia addressed? Is there a common position within the European Union on the future of these sanctions and the ongoing search for de-escalation? I am getting to the point of economic sanctions. The Russian crisis and the extension of sanctions could have serious consequences. Opinions differ considerably on this subject, depending on the different reports and analyses carried out. Thus, according to a study by the Austrian Economic Research Institute Wifo (Österreichische Institut für Wirtschaftsforschung), more than 2 million jobs and around 100 billion euros of wealth produced would be threatened. The Commission, for its part, wants to be more reassuring. Its report concludes that the effects of sanctions on the European economy will be "relatively minimal and manageable", especially since companies would now sell part of their goods to other countries. On 27 May, the Commission was even confident that the current negative effects of the sanctions would diminish. As a reminder, vis-à-vis Russia, our objective is to maintain dialogue towards de-escalation, without falling into naivety. Any sanction must serve the objective of de-escalation. It is therefore a matter of adopting proportionate, reversible and truly effective sanctions against Russia, while taking into account their consequences for our economy, which could be very heavy. Minister, how do you feel about these statements? On what criteria and what is the basis of the Commission's report? What is the assessment of the impact of Russian sanctions on the various sectors concerned in the Belgian and European economy? Would it be possible that, in addition to the sanctions already imposed on the European economy, Russia would decide to "list" European companies? This would be a great handicap for our companies if a lifting of the embargo were to be decided on both sides. Finally, and more broadly, how do you see relations between Belgium, the European Union and Russia evolving in the medium and long term in this context in order to seek lasting de-escalation through diplomacy? Minister, I come to my third question concerning the situation of Russian-speaking people in eastern Ukraine. On Tuesday, 23 June, a meeting chaired by the French Foreign Minister, with the heads of Russian, Ukrainian and German diplomacy, was scheduled to take stock of the implementation of the Minsk peace agreements in Ukraine. This meeting took place as new clashes led to the death of four people in the eastern part of the country. According to some sources, to Donetsk, both sides are on the brink of a large-scale war. The population is suffering not only from clashes but also from the consequences of the blockade imposed by the parties. In this context, 260,000 Ukrainians, former refugees, are now living in Russia. Many feel that they have no hope of reaching their retirement in Ukraine and are trying to rebuild their lives across the border. Others have only one idea in mind: to return to their homes despite the danger, even if they fear a possible return according to their refugee status. A total of three million Ukrainians have reportedly fled fighting in the East for Russia. Minister, what can you tell us about the conclusions of this meeting? How do we expect a new Ukrainian Constitution to be in place by the end of 2015 and local elections to be held in accordance with the country's legislation, in accordance with the Minsk agreements in the current context? Is the difficult situation of Russian-speaking Ukrainians taken into account and how? Above all, what about the distribution of European humanitarian aid in this region? Is there an evaluation of this assistance? Does this Russian-speaking population in eastern Ukraine really benefit from this assistance?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic221x.u35	Madam President, Mr Blanchart, the agreements concluded in Minsk in September 2014 and in February 2015 are the only internationally agreed reference to emerge from the conflict and the so-called "Normandy" format is the best way to move forward with Russia and Ukraine towards a solution in the current circumstances. In concrete terms, there is no alternative but to work through dialogue in this context. With regard to the military situation on the ground, the number and severity of armed incidents had decreased significantly, but ceasefire violations remained numerous. The withdrawal of heavy weapons has begun and access to the OSCE mission has improved. There has also been progress on the humanitarian front. A large number of prisoners have been exchanged. However, the process is suspended. It is not known exactly how many people still need to be released. With regard to the distribution of humanitarian assistance, progress still needs to be made in terms of access and effective distribution. In June 2015, total humanitarian aid from the European Union and its Member States to Ukraine amounted to EUR 223 million, of which EUR 62 million was provided by the Commission and EUR 2 million was provided directly by Belgian Cooperation. I am not aware of an overall assessment report on this aid. I am particularly concerned about the problems of starting a political process which must lead to a comprehensive political settlement with, as a corollary, the restoration of Ukraine's control over its inter-State border with Russia. Unfortunately, the meeting of 23 June 2015 in the Normandy format at the level of foreign ministers did not lead to substantial concrete progress. There are deep differences between the parties regarding, inter alia, elections, amnesty, constitutional reform, the status of participants, the format of the discussions and a number of other points. Without denying Russia's heavy responsibility, it must be recognized that only a strong political will on the part of all parties involving difficult concessions could make progress. One may wonder if this political will is present. I am convinced that the Council of Europe, through the expertise of the Venice Commission in particular, can make a very useful contribution to this political process. However, the parties concerned must ask for this. In the event of elections in Donbass, it would also be essential for the OSCE to be able to make a credible observation. The situation in Ukraine remains very precarious. Ukraine is negotiating with its creditors to restructure its external debt. The country still needs considerable support from the international community, both politically and financially. This support is conditional on substantial reforms both in the management of the economy and in the functioning of the justice system, as well as in the security sector and the fight against corruption. Despite the real progress made, particularly in the budgetary and financial fields, as well as in the economic and energy fields, considerable efforts are still needed. On 1 July, the President of Ukraine presented to Parliament a draft amendment to the Constitution with a view to decentralizing the country, which aims to strengthen the autonomy of local authorities and to diminish the role of the executive in the management of matters of local interest. The draft contains, however, a sentence referring to the special status of the pro-Russian-controlled regions, known as "certain territories of the Donetsk and Lugansk provinces", stating that a law with a special majority will have to define this status. This will be permitted by the Constitution, but not definitively anchored in it. This approach was rejected by the rebels who believe that they should be consulted under the Minsk agreements. The Ukrainian authorities are planning to hold local elections on 25 October. The Donetsk People's Republic announced local elections on 18 October and the Lugansk People's Republic intends to hold its elections on 1 November. As far as eastern Ukraine is concerned, local elections can only contribute to the political process if they fall within a framework agreed by the parties and take place in a transparent manner with credible international monitoring. Organizing local elections under undemocratic circumstances would be counterproductive. For Belgium, European support must remain linked to reform conditions. Belgium also supports the IMF's approach. The EU Macro-Financial Assistance for Ukraine is conditional and linked to meeting the conditions imposed by the IMF. The EU negotiates with Ukraine and a MoU regulates the technical aspects. This funding is only part of the EU's financial assistance package in which the European Investment Bank and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development also play an important role, in addition to the resources of the European Neighbourhood Instrument and the resources of the European Investment Facility. In addition, there are contributions from EU Member States in the form of budget support or development aid for specific projects. Finally, there is the creation of the Trade Facility which should provide the necessary support to trade. During my presidency of the Council of Europe's Council of Ministers, I remained attentive to the human rights situation. It remains a matter of concern throughout Ukraine, including in Crimea and rebel-controlled areas. The events in Maidan and Odessa cannot go unpunished. As far as Russia's role in this conflict is concerned, as you know, I have no doubt about its military involvement. However, the current approach that combines firmness and dialogue is the only plausible. I have always advocated dialogue with Russia and have met again with my counterpart, Minister Sergey Lavrov, during my visit to Moscow on 9 April. In particular, I called for the release of Nadiya Savchenko and insisted that the monitoring bodies of the Council of Europe should have access to Crimea and the separatist regions of eastern Ukraine. On 22 June, the Council of the European Union unanimously adopted the decision to extend until 31 January 2016 the European Union's economic sanctions against Russia. Other sanctions have also been extended, in particular in the case of Crimea. The European Union thus pursues its two-track policy linking sanctions and the continuation of dialogue with Russia with respect to the Minsk agreements. I am in favour of maintaining the current sanctions. There is currently no question of extending or reducing sanctions. Priority should be given to the full implementation of the Minsk agreements. In the event of a serious escalation, new sanctions will have to be considered. It is certainly true that there are different nuances in the position of the different Member States about sanctions against Russia. It is therefore an important and complex matter, in which a balance must always be struck. However, the EU has always struck a balance and made a considerable number of far-reaching decisions, with a clear impact. I don't think we're facing a schism at all. The sanctions against Crimea are specifically related to the illegal annexations of the region by Russia. The regime of sanctions against Russia is in turn linked to the destabilisation of the Donbas. The situation on the ground may change in these two regions. A differentiated approach to sanctions for these regimes therefore makes sense. With regard to the consequences in Belgium of continued sanctions against Russia, our exports to Russia decreased by 20% in 2014 and then by 33.9% in the first quarter of 2015. The economic impact of this crisis is considerable. This is not so much due to sanctions but especially to the Russian recession following the fall in oil prices and the devaluation of the ruble. Our investors in Russia are also affected by economic morosity. The Russian counter-sanctions on agricultural products also had a negative impact on the Belgian exporters concerned. Belgium strongly urged the European Commission to adopt solidarity measures for the most affected sectors. The European Commission has been sensitive to these arguments and has released EUR 125 million for support measures for fruit and vegetable producers, two thirds of whom are producers of apples and pears. With regard to the Ukrainian call for an international peacekeeping force, I can tell you that this is by definition only possible if all parties agree, quod non. So the question is not on the order of the day. I certainly do not think that the supply of arms to Ukraine is appropriate in the current circumstances. Priority must go to a political settlement. I note that some Western countries, such as the US and the UK, have sent trainers to train Ukrainian soldiers. I do not see this as a violation of the Minsk agreements, as Moscow claims, but I do think that this should be handled with caution. Sending Belgian military instructors is certainly not the issue. I am pleased that the Ukrainian government is starting to reintegrate the volunteer battalions into the army. Moreover, there are serious allegations of human rights violations against some of these battalions. I don't see a future for such private militias in Ukraine. Their existence also promotes impunity. Their dissolution is important for the normalization of the country. In February, the OSCE was given an additional mandate to monitor compliance with the ceasefire and the withdrawal of heavy weapons. These additional tasks will, understandably, also require additional resources, staff and equipment. Meanwhile, the mandate of the SMM was extended for one year, where in the past the mandate always had a term of six months. The maximum number of monitors was set at 1 000 instead of 500. Such numbers also cause logistical problems with armored vehicles, trauma kits, hotel rooms, etc., which need to be solved. The OSCE SMM was almost entirely dependent on voluntary contributions at the start-up and was therefore funded by a limited group of Member States and other donors. With the extension of the mandate, a large proportion of compulsory contributions are transferred. After all, the crisis in Ukraine is a crisis that concerns us all. It is therefore only fair and just that all OSCE Member States should contribute. The total budget for the SMM for one year is almost €90 million, of which 65 million can be paid with compulsory contributions. The rest can be financed by voluntary contributions. For our country, this means an extra effort of EUR 2 223 000. Belgium has so far contributed to and will continue to contribute to the SMM in the form of staff, compulsory contributions and voluntary contributions. Our country also contributed and contributes to the training and training of new monitors to be developed for the SMM in Ukraine, in particular a mine awareness training, an activity in which Belgium specialises. With regard to the issue of Russian military manoeuvres on and outside its territory, I can only condemn any deployment of Russian missile batteries or military units on the annexed Crimean peninsula and in the two Georgian separatist regions of Abkhazia and South Ossetia. This is a clear violation of the territorial integrity of Ukraine and Georgia. With regard to manoeuvres in other areas, it should be recalled that each country has the right to conduct the military exercises it wishes. In the current context, however, these large-scale and unannounced manoeuvres are contributing to attention. It tends to portray the West as an enemy of Russia, while we want to treat Russia as a partner. Various transparency measures, such as the invitation of international observers, could help restore confidence. Security in Europe is based on mutual confidence-building measures. I am concerned that they can no longer always play their part, even though they remain indispensable. I am even more concerned about the air incidents involving either the violation of the airspace of NATO and European Union member countries by Russian aircraft or the provocative behaviour of such aircraft in international airspace. Exercises in the separatist areas of Ukraine and Georgia appear to be aimed at establishing Russia's illegal military control over those territories. They are perceived as a matter of willingness to intimidate the States concerned. When I was informed that two Belgians were on the list of European political figures banned from entering Russian territory, namely Guy Verhofstadt and Mark Demesmaeker, both Members of the European Parliament, I immediately notified the two concerned of the decision taken by Russia and the President of the European Parliament, Martin Schulz. I also wrote to the Russian Foreign Minister, Sergey Lavrov, expressing my rejection of the decision, which has no basis. I also sent a copy of my letter to the High Representative and Vice-President of the Commission, Federica Mogherini. Finally, Madam President, I reply to the fifteenth question raised concerning the concern about migratory flows from Ukraine. According to Eurostat statistics, there was indeed an increase in the number of asylum applications in 2014 and 2015. In 2014, there were 570 applications in Belgium, 2 700 in Germany, 1 420 in France, 265 in the Netherlands and 2 275 in Poland. The most spectacular increase has taken place in Germany and Poland. The number of interceptions of illegal migrants from Ukraine is also increasing. However, these numbers are not at all in proportion to the figures for internally displaced persons in Ukraine and refugees in Russia. That's where hundreds of thousands of people are at stake. We have received no demand for support from our central European partners in the EU.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic221x.u36	Madam Chair, Minister, thank you for your answers. The file is very complex. Despite the fact that the current fires are not directed towards this part of the world at the moment, the situation is nevertheless tense and dangerous at our doorstep. We can talk about the movement of troops on both sides to reflect this situation, but the most important thing is to ask ourselves the question, at both Belgian and European level, of the role we play in this problem. It seems to me, and you may be in my opinion, that we are unfortunately evolving towards new situations of frozen conflicts, as is the custom in the region. This has been known in Upper Karabagh for more than twenty years, in Ossetia, in Transnistria. We are moving towards a scenario which, despite the various resolutions, the efforts of the Council of Europe, etc., for decades, has failed. There are people there. You mentioned Ukraine, where EUR 223 million has already been allocated for humanitarian aid. But we must deplore the lack of evaluation of this aid. The Russian-speaking population deserves to be taken into consideration. An evaluation could highlight what this population is complaining about. In general, the displaced do not move for pleasure. If they are in Russia today and are planning to build a future there, it is because, unfortunately, these men and women, who are still Ukrainians and claim it, are often called pro-Russians by the West. Moreover, it is known that corruption in Ukraine is high and that the militias on both sides, as well as the Ukrainian army, have committed abuses. There are mass graves in this area. In short, the situation is serious. I really believe that a real assessment is needed to help these people, especially in the Donbass, where, through conflicts, the very tool of economic recovery has been destroyed. As far as sanctions are concerned, I would be interested in the aspect of the question of who benefits from the crime. There's a boon effect. You mentioned the losses that are now confirmed by 20% in 2014 and 33% for the first part of 2015, for our economy. It is quite heavy while, at the same time, other countries, such as Switzerland or countries in South America, are taking advantage of this blockade to increase their economic relations with Russia and vice versa. Without mentioning the fact that the United States, which is very firm on this issue, has far less impact on these problems that we have with Russia. This deserves further thought. Double-track policy seems to be the only solution, but we seem to be moving towards an impasse that will weigh heavily on the economic level for the whole of Europe, except for a few countries that do not take part in this conflict, and which risk evolving towards frozen conflict situations.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic221x.u37	Madam President, Minister, we are going to Ankara! In 2015, Turkey officially took over the presidency of the G20 and declared its main ambition to reduce inequality. This statement is totally contrary to the latest statements made by President Erdogan last November on the position of women in society. She should, in his view, "cantify her role in motherhood and cannot claim to be the equal of man". These are great statements! The situation of women's rights in Turkey is worrying. For example, the Government seems to want to limit the right to abortion and encourage women to have at least three children. In terms of employment, women are more than lagging behind. While the G20 has just set the target of reducing the gap between men and women in access to employment by 25% by 2025, the OECD shows that about 69 per cent of men are engaged in paid work in Turkey, compared with 28 per cent of women. Minister, what information do you get from the place of women, both at the societal, social, political and legal level in Turkey? Is this central question part of the negotiations on the country's accession to the European Union? How does Belgium position itself in this context? As Belgium is chairing the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe, will this issue be addressed?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic221x.u38	Madam President, Mr Blanchart, thank you for your question on the situation of women in Turkish society. Like you, I was concerned about the statements of President Erdogan in November 2014 on the place of women in society. Last February, the death of Özgecan Aslan, a twenty-year-old student who was raped, murdered and then burned, raised an unprecedented wave of outrage in Turkey. The mobilization of Turkish society has confirmed that the scandal of violence against women is no longer a taboo but rather a subject of society that must be addressed by politicians. In this regard, I would like to draw your attention to President Erdogan's speech on Women's Day, which explicitly and concretely touched on the problem of violence against women in Turkey. This speech clearly and unambiguously reaffirms the dignity of women and the need to treat them equally with men. This speech also highlights the need to change attitudes and improve law enforcement. In particular, it calls for an end to violence in families and injustice in the world of work. I welcome this positive signal and hope that this commitment will be translated into concrete progress in the coming months. The situation is indeed worrying. Although the legal provisions for the prevention of violence against women had been strengthened, existing mechanisms were not sufficiently implemented in practice. Women in Turkey continue to be discriminated against in the field of employment and are generally underrepresented in senior managerial and political positions. According to the Global gender gap index 2014 of the World Economic Forum, Turkey ranks 125th out of 142, losing 20 places since 2006. In recent years, a substantial increase in the number of domestic violence cases has been reported. Civil society has become aware of the magnitude of the problem, which remains acute especially in the eastern part of the country. The Penal Code had provided for more severe penalties since 2004, but honour killings were unfortunately still a reality. In June 2012, the Prime Minister raised the question of the right to abortion. However, in the face of popular protest, no new law has been passed. Since then, Turkey Women Rights, which controls access to abortion, has reported an increase in attitudes aimed at preventing women from gaining full access to this right. Human rights are an integral part of the acquis communautaire which Turkey must adopt as a candidate country for the European Union. Its progress is assessed annually by the European Commission as part of a report published in October. As far as Belgium's position in this debate is concerned, I have already mentioned here on several occasions my support for the opening of Chapters 23 and 24 of the accession negotiations. In doing so, Belgium, like many Member States, supports a recurrent recommendation by the European Commission. Chapters 23 and 24 cover the judicial field and fundamental rights and justice, freedom and security. These are crucial chapters for advancing women's rights in Turkey and strengthening judicial institutions that also guarantee their implementation. The horizontal priority of the Belgian Presidency of the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe has been to strengthen the institutions of the Council of Europe. It was in this context that the Belgian Presidency organised a conference at the end of March on shared responsibility for the implementation of the Convention on Human Rights. The Brussels Declaration stressed, inter alia, the upstream and downstream responsibility of member States in the implementation of the Convention. The European Court of Human Rights has developed a more systematic review of the principle of non-discrimination in the last decade (Article 14 of the European Convention on Human Rights). This development of the Court's case law has had positive results in the area of equality and non-discrimination. At the UN level, Belgium also plays a positive role in defending women's rights. At the present session of the Commission on the Status of Women, Belgium, together with the Council of Europe, organised on 9 March this year an event on gender stereotypes as a cause of discrimination and violence against women. Against Turkey more specifically, Belgium also intervened in the universal periodic review within the Human Rights Council. On 27 January, Belgium informed Turkey of a series of recommendations on women's rights. This oral intervention was also accompanied by a series of written questions on this subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic221x.u39	Minister, thank you. I think we really need to take advantage of the seat you have in the Council of Europe to continue to address this issue, because President Erdogan's speeches sometimes blow hot and sometimes cold. But the findings are unchanged. There is still a desire to Islamize Turkey, heir to Atatürk and secular principles, where the woman had obtained the right to vote at an early stage. Fortunately, this legacy still remains in the mentality and culture of many Turks. This remains a fight which has been expressed in particular in the last elections after which President Erdogan thought he would obtain an absolute majority, which has not been the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic221x.u40	Mr Friart and Mr Van der Maelen's apologies were withdrawn from the agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic221x.u41	Since last September and the takeover of the capital Sana'a by the rebel fighters of Ansar Allah, the so-called Houthis, the situation has become much worse in Yemen, to such an extent that most airlines have suspended their flights to or from Sana'a. In addition, many IA Qaida members have settled in Yemen, particularly in its south-eastern part. Owing to the very precarious political and security situation, French nationals residing or passing through Yemen are invited to leave Yemen as soon as possible. The abduction of a French national in February was evidence of this deterioration. Belgium, through its Foreign Affairs website, advised against all travel to Yemen and advised all its compatriots to leave the country. We now know that Saudi Arabia is occupying military ground. What is the development of the situation in Yemen? How many Belgian nationals had to leave the country? What is the status of this file according to your information?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic221x.u42	Madam President, Minister, my question concerns the same situation and in particular the raid on 25 and 26 March. Saudi Arabia invaded Yemen with an international coalition of Arab states. In Yemen there is a power struggle between different groups. The internal struggle for power is not only important internally but also has geopolitical consequences. My questions relate to the evolution of the situation. You said at the time that the invasion of Yemen might be a good thing. I thought that was a very loaded statement at the time. This raid could have a major impact on the regional and internal situation in Yemen. Could you elaborate on that statement? Do you still think that way? It is assumed that Iran would support the Houthi Tunisians, but the country itself states that the President supports Hadi. Yet it condemned the attacks. Can you explain the role of Iran in this situation? How do you estimate the impact of military intervention on the talks on the nuclear programme? The US has carried out attacks on Al-Qaeda's premises with the support of President Hadi. Do you have an update on this one?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic221x.u43	Madam President, Minister, the situation in Yemen has been outlined by my fellow Members. It is spectacular and surprising that Saudi Arabia has formally invaded it and a military operation has begun to protect and defend the legitimate government. Mr Claerhout pointed out that Iran would support the Houthi people. In Yemen, for example, the simple struggle between Sunnis and Shiites would continue. You have welcomed the action of some Gulf States, including Saudi Arabia, during your economic missions. In the meantime, there is an emergency session of the United Nations. We cannot say that the situation has been resolved in the meantime and my question dates back some time ago. Do you expect a demand from the United States for our country to somehow join a multilateral organisation in an operation to restore stability in Yemen? In that case, what would be our answer? What role does Iran play? Can this involvement have an impact on the talks with Iran on the nuclear programmes, which talks are now in a final phase? The region is rather restless and events in Yemen have not made things easier. What are the implications for the region and possibly for the problems of radicalisation and so on in our own country?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic221x.u44	Madam President, the situation in Yemen deteriorated very rapidly in March. ==History==The city of Aden was the capital of the city of Aden, and the city of Aden was the capital of the city of Aden. Yemeni President Hadi called on the international community to take military action before fleeing Aden. The surrounding countries considered it necessary to intervene in military terms, given the rapid escalation in which President Hadi had to flee the country and asked them to intervene with all possible means. My interlocutors in that region, whom I met on a princely mission, pointed out their deep concern about the evolution in Yemen and the potential impact in their countries. It is my view that, in the case of military intervention, stronger regional involvement is the first way to reduce the conflict. Of course, all efforts must be made to get the conflicting parties to the negotiating table as soon as possible in order to reach a peaceful and negotiated solution. The humanitarian crisis in conflict-affected areas continues to worsen. 80 per cent of the population, twenty-one million people, are now in need of humanitarian assistance. The main needs are in terms of food and fuel, access to medical services, drinking water and sanitation facilities. There are a million internally displaced persons in Yemen. They are Yemenis who were joined by a group of internally displaced persons from the Horn of Africa. It is estimated that US$1.6 billion will be needed in 2015 to meet the humanitarian challenges in Yemen. Saudi Arabia has pledged a contribution of $274 million to the United Nations humanitarian programme for Yemen. Reference is rightly made to the regional dimension of the conflict. It is difficult to estimate exactly how far Iran's aid to the Houthi people goes. I do not think it is appropriate to speculate on this. I have regularly stressed the importance of Iran's constructive and positive involvement in the various conflicts in the region. It is indeed essential for peace and regional stability. The agreement in principle in the nuclear negotiations is in this context a positive step which I welcome and which I hope will soon be followed by a full agreement in the days or perhaps the hours to come. Another important element is that a power vacuum in Yemen strengthens the position of Al-Qaeda and IS, which, first and foremost, poses a risk to the region, but also threatens Western interests. Yemen has been in such a power vacuum since the Houthi people took over power from the capital Sanaa and held the legitimate government hostage in September of last year. Since then, we have seen Yemen quickly slide into a political and security crisis that threatens the territorial integrity of the country. The United States, which is very involved in the fight against Al-Qaeda, reported on 21 March that they had evacuated all personnel remaining in the country from Yemen. Meanwhile, they have re-established their actions against targets of Al-Qaeda. At the diplomatic level, the United Nations Security Council condemned the unilateral actions of the Houthis. On 14 April, the Security Council adopted resolution 2216 on Yemen. The text mentions President Hadi's request for intervention and adopts targeted sanctions and an arms embargo. On 20 April, the Member States of the European Union adopted conclusions which incorporated certain aspects of the UN resolution. Both texts encourage the parties to resume the negotiation process in order to reach agreement on the basis of the Gulf Cooperation Council's initiative, the results of the National Dialogue Conference and the Peace and National Partnership Agreement. On 27 April, the UN confirmed the appointment of Ismail Ould Cheikh Ahmed as the new Special Envoy of the Secretary-General. From 15 to 19 June he brought the warring parties together in Geneva to negotiate. Although this first step towards a political process can be seen as a positive signal, delegations did not speak directly to each other and no agreement could be found for the inclusion of much-needed humanitarian breaks during the Ramadan. It is important to continue to support the efforts of the Special Envoy. Although the political situation in Yemen has recently changed, the threat to the West is not a novelty. Most Belgians had already left the country in recent years. Those who still reside there are fully aware of the dangers of a stay in Yemen. It has been some time since the travel notice for Yemen advised to leave the country. I can assure you that our position in Ryad is in constant contact with our Honorary Consul in the capital Sanaa. In recent months, our embassy in Ryad and the Honorary Consul have been in regular contact with the Belgians present in the country. The latter stated that they did not want to leave the country. Our position in Ryad also maintains close relations with the European delegation in Ryad and information is regularly exchanged from Brussels with the European External Action Service and the other Member States. We are, of course, trying to work in common with European representation in this and other areas to arrive at a negotiated, political solution, although it can be understood that the countries of the region consider it useful to intervene militarily when they feel directly threatened.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic221x.u45	Minister, thank you for your very comprehensive answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic221x.u46	I would just like to say briefly, Minister, that this does not sound optimistic at all. If you say that even during the Ramadan period no agreement can be reached on humanitarian breaks, then of course I am concerned too. I hope that our country can help to restore peace wherever possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic221x.u47	Mr Minister, together with my fellow Members, I note that we have a powder keg. That is very alarming in that region. However, I am convinced that, as far as possible, you will ensure that some light can shine in the tunnel.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic221x.u48	Madam President, this question relates to the situation of the Jews in Belgium. After February – March, the attacks that struck Copenhagen and Paris, and of course the Jewish Museum in Brussels, Benyamin Netanyahu called for a massive emigration of Jews from Europe, believing that their security was no longer guaranteed. While the unease of the Jews of Europe is perfectly understandable, the head of the Israeli government ignores the fact that the governments of virtually all the countries of the European Union strongly support their Jewish community, contrary to what happened in Europe in the 1930s and to their discriminatory laws, and that, moreover, the Jews have since been well integrated into European society. Nevertheless, 150 anti-Semitic alerts have taken place in our territory recently. According to the anti-Semitic website.be figures, the number of anti-Semitic acts increased from 64 to 102 between 2013 and 2014, an increase of 60%. Some 250 Jews from Belgium, out of about 30,000, moved to Israel last year, according to data from the Jewish Agency. The phenomenon, although it has always existed, has been on the rise for about five years. Many in the Jewish community no longer feel safe at home despite the fact that most of them are perfectly integrated. It is necessary for me to see today that the targets of fascism are always the same and that the Jews are part of it. What my colleague Mr Flahaux calls "Naz Islamism" comes back very regularly. Of course, the PS cannot tolerate the barbaric misappropriation of any religious belief. Our party will always be on the front line to fight against any form of "anti-Semitism", whether it is anti-Semitism, Islamophobia and all the rejections of the other which still very hard affect a whole series of our fellow citizens. Minister, what steps have been taken to address this? Is there a European-wide reflection? What answers were given to Benyamin Netanyahu's statements at the time?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic221x.u49	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, you are absolutely right to say that the barbaric misappropriation of any religious belief is not tolerable in our societies. It goes without saying that the Belgian authorities are determined to fight this phenomenon firmly. In no way can we accept the development of a culture in which people can be threatened for what they are and what they believe in. With regard to the concrete measures taken in Belgium to combat anti-Semitism, I would like to point out that this issue falls essentially within the competence of my colleague the Minister of the Interior, who has already had the opportunity, on several occasions, to present to Parliament the various measures, including security measures, taken either through the presence of military personnel in a number of places linked to the Jewish community, or through budgets that have been made available to strengthen physical security measures in a number of places. With regard to the fight against anti-Semitism at European and international level, Belgium intends to continue its efforts within the Holocaust Remembrance Alliance, as well as in various international organisations and through bilateral diplomatic relations. Many other initiatives are also being taken at European level. Thus, the European Union provides a legislative framework that complements and strengthens the national provisions of the different Member States. In particular, there is Council Framework Decision 2008/913 JHA on combating certain forms and manifestations of racism and xenophobia through criminal law, which is the subject of a progress report on the transposition and implementation of the provisions contained therein. The fight against racism, xenophobia and anti-Semitism is also one of the tasks of the European Union Agency for Fundamental Rights, which published a study on anti-Semitism in some European Union countries in 2013. With regard to the education component, education programmes related to the Holocaust and the day of remembrance of the victims of the Holocaust and the prevention of crimes against humanity are planned. There is also an annual seminar on combating anti-Semitism between the Commission and Israel, which takes place in Jerusalem and Brussels once in two. The eighth annual seminar was held in October in Jerusalem. The next one will be held in Brussels in the second half of 2015. Finally, I come to the statements of Prime Minister Benyamin Netanyahu. I won't comment on them. I refer you to the Prime Minister's answer to that question. It is obvious that European Jews have their full place in Europe. The fight against anti-Semitism is a national cause for which we have and will continue to mobilize. I think like a number of other Europeans. We must continue to say, whether in our country or in Europe, that we would not have exactly the same situation if we did not have a Jewish community within us. I believe that we would not be entirely Belgium or Europe if we tolerated that the Jewish community should be forced to leave us.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic221x.u50	Minister, I fully share the meaning of your intervention. It really had to be pointed out to Mr Netanyahu and to remind us of our values and the fight we wage against any form of persecution in the name of a religion or belief. Calls like these must not amplify the sense of insecurity of the Jews who live in our country and who have been our friends for a long time.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic221x.u51	Madam President, this is a slight variation in the questioners, but not for long. Mr Minister, I will only ask my second question because it is the most extensive and overlaps with the first. I am very concerned about the situation in Egypt and, above all, about the support we give to the current regime of Egypt and its impact on, for example, the crisis in Syria and Iraq. We must think carefully about the extent to which we support our so-called ally Egypt, and the effects it has. In view of the Tahrir Revolution of 2011, the situation in Egypt is particularly disappointing and demotivating. President Al Sisi is not only pursuing a repressive policy towards the Muslim brothers, but also towards the former Tahrir activists, the democratic forces we all supported with great enthusiasm at the time. Democratic freedoms and human rights are under severe pressure in Egypt. I have a number of questions. What developments are of particular concern to you? Do you agree that many practices of the Mubarak regime at the time have actually been completely reversed? How do you explain that the West and the EU were loudly on the barricades at the time to charge the violation of human rights, but that we are now much quieter? There are statements by the High Representative Mogherini, but they lack their impact for the time being. What new steps do you think we can take? Can you give a brief overview of the existing cooperation agreements, trade agreements, partnerships, association agreements, and all other agreements for financial and economic support between the EU and Egypt which contain respect for human rights in their provisions? To what extent is the current situation a reason to reconsider it? How does the EU apply the more for more principle in its support for Egypt? Will our country respond to laws and legislative proposals that impose further restrictions on domestic and foreign NGOs, as well as to the presidential decision of 21 September 2014 which has serious consequences for NGOs that damage the national interest? In the long term, are you considering banning exports to Egypt of access and surveillance technologies that can be used to spy on and suppress civilians, as well as security equipment or military assistance that can be used to suppress peaceful protests?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic221x.u52	Minister, simultaneous attacks on several Egyptian positions again set Sinai on fire and blood this Wednesday. Terrorists detonated themselves with their vehicles at military bases in the region, and other assailants subsequently opened fire on the military. The army reported 17 soldiers killed and 100 jihadists shot down, without the immediate possibility of explaining the gap between the various reports. This attack is the latest in a long series. On Monday, the Attorney General of Egypt was killed in an attack on his convoy in the heart of Cairo. In June, the Egyptian police failed a suicide attack at Karnak temple in Luxor. In May, 12 people were killed in attacks in Sinai, including two judges and one prosecutor. The attacks have increased since the removal of former Islamist President Morsi in 2013 and, above all, since the establishment of a very harsh policy of repression against Islamists by President al-Sissi. Minister, how do you view the latest events in Sinai and the extent of the terrorist threat in the broad sense? Has the assassination of the Attorney General been claimed? The vast military campaign launched two years ago against the jihadists in Sinai failed to stop the attacks. What can explain this failure? What do you think are the prospects for evolution?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic221x.u53	Ladies and gentlemen, the situation in Egypt has changed several times in recent years. These evolutions were the result of popular protests that gave a way out of a displeasure with the policies pursued. To put the country on the road to democracy, a roadmap was drawn up. Belgium, like the European Union, is asking that the road map for that democratisation process be followed. Finally, the postponed parliamentary elections must be organised in a context in which all the views and parties in Egyptian society must be able to make their voice heard. Egypt is still facing a number of problems, including human rights issues. Belgium prefers bilateral contact to address Egypt issues, such as the NGO law, the protest law or the freedom of certain media. At the Human Rights Council on 18 March Belgium raised the specific human rights situation in Egypt, including in the fight against terrorism. Egypt is also experiencing difficult economic times and further reforms are needed to put the country back on track. Despite the understanding of the complex situation in Egypt and the fact that the Egyptian Government is fighting terrorism, recent incidents show that the threat of terrorism remains real in Egypt. Just think of the assassination of the Attorney General, whose initial claim was later withdrawn and the violent battles in the northern Sinai. Especially in northern Sinai, the situation remains complex, despite a massive military campaign, including the presence of several armed groups. I have repeatedly expressed Belgium's solidarity with the fight of the Egyptian government against terrorism. At the same time, I have repeatedly called for a balance between the fight against terrorism and respect for human rights. This issue is also regularly on the agenda of the Foreign Affairs Council within the EU. In addition, statements are made on a regular basis by the High Representative Mogherini. The human rights situation is also addressed in the dialogue with Egypt. The dialogue is an important tool for both the EU and the Member States to address human rights and other issues such as security and stability. It is not only important for Egypt to ensure internal stability and security, but it is also an important player for security and stability in the region, for example for Libya's current problems. Egypt is a country in transition with many problems, such as terrorism, socio-economic challenges and violations of fundamental rights. The EU is ready to support Egypt in the process of democratisation. It is therefore important that the EU remains in dialogue with Egypt. Only in this way can sensitive issues be discussed. I will work to ensure that the EU engages in intensive dialogue with Egypt and will continue to monitor the situation closely. Since 2004, the EU has had an association agreement with Egypt, one of which is respect for human rights. As pointed out earlier, I attach importance to dialogue with the Egyptian authorities because, in my view, this is more effective than, for example, suspending the association agreement. European aid is not so much blocked, but local legislation makes it difficult for European funds to reach their destination. The EU is trying to address this through a local dialogue. Should European support for civil society still be blocked by the Egyptian authorities, I will work to ensure that it is addressed bilaterally or at EU level, given the importance of a strong civil society in a democracy. In the area of financial assistance, Egypt is currently not covered by the more for more principle. This means that no additional funds have been made available to Egypt. In a regular programme, the European Union contributes, among other things, to the EU Instrument for Democracy and Human Rights. The proper functioning of Egyptian civil society is always an important element in Belgium's foreign policy. In Egypt, too, Belgium promotes strong NGOs that can carry out their democratic tasks freely. Belgium will always defend this point in bilateral contacts as well as in multilateral fora. As you know, power over arms exports belongs to the region. Following the removal of President Morsi and the violent evacuations of the sit-ins in Cairo in August 2013, the EU decided to block all export licences to Egypt for material that could be used for repression, in accordance with the common position 2008/944. This decision was confirmed in February 2014 and is still in force. We have sent all the necessary information to the Regions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic221x.u54	Minister, I am surprised by your attitude. Let me explain why. There is a dictatorship, there is a coup d'état. There's a transition, but it's worse than before. The Muslim brothers are being violently suppressed, making them increasingly join radical jihadists, including ISIS. This is partly the responsibility of the regime. The Middle East is a web. Everything's connected to everything. Continue to support and encourage the current regime and maintain the dialogue call you more effective than suspending the association agreement, but what are the positive results so far? We support a regime that leads to more Muslims in Egypt supporting the jihadists of IS, just as we are far too kind to the Saudi regime. We must pay attention to which allies we choose in the Middle East. There is a mass that is increasingly attracted to IS because they find insufficient connection with their own government. I would really recommend reading the opinion piece in Pieter Stockmans' Standard. It summarises the geopolitical entanglement that is taking place in the Middle East and the sometimes wrong and, above all, counterproductive choices we make in the West. I really want to ask you to pay attention to that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic221x.u55	Minister, thank you for your answers. After this beautiful Arab spring, we were very disillusioned with the arrival of the Islamists in power in Egypt, who were overthrown in the wake. At present, the situation in that country is dramatic. It can be seen that it is often the representatives of justice who are struck by Islamists. It is recalled that the revolution against Islamists was also initiated by the representatives of justice. This situation is a little complicated. How can we respond to such abuses, to such crimes on our own territory, if not by force? My colleague mentioned support for the government, but it is practically a choice between plague and cholera. The Islamist government was no better than this one. Of course, it responds violently to these Islamists but I believe despite everything that Egypt still descends into the streets, it has a will to evolve. We must continue to support this country in the fight against jihadism. It is necessary to maintain dialogue with the government in order to make progress on democracy, and it is certainly not by cutting the bridges that we will be able to achieve this.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic221x.u56	Mr Van der Maelen and Mrs Capoen apologize.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic221x.u57	Madam President, Minister, on 10 March, the Swedish Prime Minister announced that his government will not renew the military cooperation agreement that has been binding on Saudi Arabia since 2005. He referred to the question of respect for human rights as the reason for the choice of the new red-green government majority. This decision appears to be the direct consequence of a diplomatic incident between the two countries. Saudi Arabia had prevented your Swedish counterpart from delivering a speech at an Arab League meeting. A little before, the same minister had publicly shared his views on the "medium-age methods" of Saudi justice against blogger Raif Badawi, who was flagelled for insulting Islam, as recalled in a motion for a resolution voted in plenary a few weeks ago, unanimously. Minister, on the SPF Foreign Affairs website, we read: "Belgium has excellent relations with Saudi Arabia. Many Belgian companies are active in this strategic region in areas as diverse as construction, engineering, dredging, transport, medicine, consulting". Does this mean that Belgium has a position on the human rights situation in Saudi Arabia diametrically opposed to that of Sweden? Apart from the agreement on double taxation in 1997, on air transport in 1986, and the bilateral investment agreement in 2001, what are the other treaties linking Belgium and Saudi Arabia at bilateral level? Is there a military cooperation agreement comparable to the Arab-Swedish Treaty between Belgium and Saudi Arabia? Since the regionalization of jurisdiction over the arms trade, could you clarify the procedure to be followed if the Defence or the police wanted to sell weapons or ammunition to Saudi Arabia? In this case, would the FPS Foreign Affairs advise the Home and Defence FPS to abandon their project?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic221x.u58	Mr Minister, since we had a debate in plenary on this matter fifteen days ago, I am not going to repeat everything that has been said on this occasion. In view of this extremely complicated situation, it is important first of all to save this founder of the Liberal Forum. Moreover, we must act to ensure that there are no more executions for such unacceptable reasons. A great deal of diplomacy will have to be exercised and, although it may seem strange, Saudi Arabia's presence on the United Nations Human Rights Committee, as well as its claim to run for the presidency to try to change things. As I said in plenary, the right to vote finally granted to women - while they still do not have the right to drive - even if it is not yet applied, can be an indication of change. In any case, I hope that is the case. I count on you and all European diplomacy to try to act diplomatically. Otherwise, I'm afraid we won't make it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic221x.u59	Minister Margot Wallström, the Swedish Foreign Minister, denounced human rights in Saudi Arabia and women in particular. She sentenced the Saudi courts for the sentence of Raif Badawi to ten years in prison and a thousand lashes for setting up a website that advocated secularism and freedom of speech. According to Wallström, it concerns medieval practices and a cruel attempt to suppress forms of expression. The Saudi Ministry of Foreign Affairs condemned the statements and called them a flagrant interference in internal affairs which, according to international conventions, is unacceptable. The other foreign ministers of the Arab League, an organization of 22 countries, declared themselves in agreement with the Saudi Republics. The statements are incompatible because the kingdom of Saudi Arabia is based on Sharia, Islamic law, it sounded in a joint press release. Minister, I have four questions for you. Firstly, do you agree with Sweden's criticism of the human rights situation and of women in particular in Saudi Arabia? Secondly, why don't you go ahead and publicly defend Wallström's statements? Thirdly, do you think the approach of public condemnation of human rights violations is wrong? Fourthly, how do you express your criticism of human rights violations in your bilateral contacts with Saudi Arabia?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic221x.u60	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Minister, my colleagues have pointed out, in particular, the scope of the resolution adopted by the House on 18 June. It is true that in this text the federal government has been asked to intervene promptly and formally, I insist on the terms, with the Saudi authorities so that Mr.Raif Badawi is released from all convictions and is not subject to punishment, including the punishment of whipping, which is particularly scandalous. Should we also recall that Saudi Arabia is distinguished by the number of punishments with which human dignity is violated and which are acts of torture totally condemned by all international conventions, to which Saudi Arabia is a signatory and which it has ratified? I wanted to take stock of the current state of diplomatic pressure, in the terms used by the resolution, desired from Saudi Arabia to release unconditionally not only Raif Badawi, but also other unjustly condemned human rights defenders. There is the way, as we have pointed out, followed by Sweden, which is that of gradual sanctions against Saudi Arabia, and there is that of the singular caucus that I know you are advocating more, more discreet and perhaps less mediated approaches, but of course we are waiting for the results. I suspect that this can only be done in close consultation with the other members of the European Union, who are, for some of them, perhaps too reserved to exert diplomatic pressure on Saudi Arabia. I would like you to give me the very status of the concerted initiatives within the European Union, and indeed of their much-needed amplification, especially since we are gradually reaching the end of the Ramadan period, which is generally a more favourable period in these countries for the conditional or final release of a number of prisoners, in particular prisoners of conscience. If this period were to end without the enlargement of Mr. Raif Badawi and some of his fellow prisoners for opinion, simply because they were defenders of fundamental freedoms in that country, that would be a cause for concern. I would like to know more about the outcome of your efforts.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic221x.u61	Minister, on 7 May last, I was participating with other colleagues in the demonstration that was organised by Amnesty International in solidarity with Raif Badawi. It has now been a year since he was sentenced to ten years in prison and a thousand lashes for having actually created a website of debate and, according to the authorities, insulting Islam. On 9 January, many of us were indignant after Mr. Badawi received the 50 lashes. As a result of a significant mobilization, all other flogging sessions have since been postponed. The sentence was not overturned, however, and Mr. Badawi could be tried again for apostasy, a crime punishable by the death penalty. Could you, Minister, give us the latest information in your possession on this matter and tell me how, together with your European or international counterparts, you are reacting to the Saudi authorities? What about the pressure you could put on Mr. Badawi's release?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic221x.u62	Firstly, as has been pointed out, Belgium and its various components, the Regions and the Communities, have continued relations with Saudi Arabia, which is indeed an important partner for a number of Belgian companies. However, the promotion and protection of human rights is a priority theme for Belgium, both at national level and in its bilateral relations. One does not exclude the other. In the case of Saudi Arabia, it is precisely our good relations that allow us to regularly address the issue of human rights to our Saudi interlocutors, as I did again during my meeting in Doha with the Deputy Foreign Minister. It was the 24th of May. In particular, I would like to refer specifically to the situation of Mr Raïf Badawi, to which I shall return. Of course, the human rights situation in Saudi Arabia is far from ideal, particularly in terms of women's rights. I therefore share your concern and that of my Swedish colleague about the human rights situation in Saudi Arabia. Apart from the agreements mentioned, there is also another former convention, the Convention on Economic and Technical Cooperation between the Governments of the Kingdom of Belgium and the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg and the Government of Saudi Arabia, signed in Brussels on 10 May 1978. Belgium does not have a military cooperation agreement with Saudi Arabia. In the area of arms and since the arms export jurisdiction was entrusted to the Regions in 2003, the Minister of Foreign Affairs remains responsible for the exports of surplus defence or police to third countries. Each application shall be examined on a case-by-case basis on the basis of the criteria which meet the common position and it is clear that all these criteria will be assessed, at the time of the decision, on the basis of the type of material requested for export and on the basis of the final recipient of the export. It is also necessary to consult the European data bank to see whether refusals have been issued by the Member States of the European Union for similar exports and to consult Member States which have refused such exports. It is on the basis of all these elements that the decision on whether to grant an export licence can be made, not in a theoretical and general way. Following the incident between Saudi Arabia and Sweden, bilateral contacts took place between the two countries, after which the incident was closed. None of those involved have asked our country or the EU to intervene. As chairman of the Council of Europe's Ministerial Committee, it was impossible for the federal government to play a role in the six months of our Presidency as a mediator between Sweden and the Arab countries of the UN. As you know, Arab countries are not members of the Council of Europe. The approach of public condemnation of human rights violations is not wrong, but it is just one of the diplomatic instruments at our disposal. The question to be asked in choosing one of these instruments is which of them can contribute to improving the human rights situation in the field. After all, that is our objective. Based on the contacts my services have with women's and human rights organisations, I remain of the opinion that a confrontational approach is often not the best way to promote human and women's rights in Saudi Arabia. I assure you that human rights occupy an important place in all our bilateral contacts. Human rights are therefore systematically raised in our bilateral contacts, including with Saudi Arabia. With regard to the more specific situation of Mr. Raïf Badawi, I would like first of all to refer to the reply given to you in plenary session on 11 June by the Minister of Pensions, in which, in summary, I clearly recalled our concern about human rights, and in particular the fact that corporal punishment of whipping is formally prohibited by the Convention against Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment, which Saudi Arabia has ratified. You asked what the effects of the contacts were. There have been many contacts at European and bilateral level. On 24 May, I had the opportunity to address specifically the situation of Mr.Raif Badawi with the Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs. So far, there is no application of the section relating to the corporal treatment of the penalty, and thus, in plain terms, no more flogging. For the rest, the minister communicated to us Saudi Arabia's position regarding the judicial decision taken in the specific case. But what matters first and foremost was the abandonment of corporal punishment, which, as I recall, is formally prohibited by the Convention ratified by Saudi Arabia. The European Union has repeatedly opposed this practice and, as I said, has also taken a number of steps. We will continue to move forward on the matter. During the universal periodic review of Saudi Arabia, which took place in October 2013, Belgium had already made recommendations to the Saudi government with regard to freedom of expression and association. In the future, we will continue to systematically address the situation in our bilateral contacts. I can assure you that both the European Union and Belgium will therefore continue the process in the days and weeks to come. A new approach was taken in Ryad, for example, following the adoption of the Belgian Parliament's resolution. We will maintain diplomatic contacts which, I hope, will lead to a favourable outcome. I continue to favour dialogue and engagement on pains, as is the case with other countries, to close all doors and prevent any progress. As far as trade and military measures are concerned, of course, I invite you to address the bulk of my regional colleagues, who are on the front line on this issue of business contacts, on the occasion of the numerous missions organized by the regional agencies, including in Saudi Arabia. Finally, I would like to add that, like all of you, I am obviously very sensitive to any court decision that results in convictions for cruel treatment that is prohibited by international conventions, but I recall that my concerns are at least as high as the number of public executions that have been carried out in Saudi Arabia since the beginning of this year. As no one has pointed out in the questions, I still wanted to point out that, in addition to the case that is constantly being discussed, there have been a very large number of executions since the beginning of this year. Unfortunately, this number of executions is more important than in the past year as a whole, and it is also on this subject that we are talking about when we meet the Saudi authorities.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic221x.u63	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to follow the same order as in the question. Perhaps you should let us know that we will be returning to Question No 1 in a moment. 2727 by Mr Crusnière, item 10 on our agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic221x.u64	Minister, you are right to mention these dozens of beheadings in public places. In my view, this would justify changing not only the vocabulary, but also the rhetoric in force at the FPS Foreign Affairs site and, at the very least, referring to the catastrophic human rights situation in Saudi Arabia, rather than highlighting the excellent relations our country has with it. Then I asked you about the military agreements, similar to those that Sweden had concluded with Saudi Arabia. I am pleased that Belgium has not established one. Why did I ask you that question? For two reasons. First of all, we're gonna have to sell old F-16s. You should respect the principles of the common position. At this stage, given the human rights situation there, as evidenced by the fate of Raïf Badawi and the mass executions in public places, as well as the extremely troubled political and military role of Saudi Arabia in the Daesh case, it is important that the police and the army should not sell arms to him, they should be decommissioned. What is valid for the federal government is valid for the regions. Like you, I think it is indecent that Wallonia sells so many weapons to Saudi Arabia. Finally, I will end my reply with a reflection. The new position of the Swedish Foreign Minister is much more legible than yours. Sweden is a developed and rich country, which has services and goods for sale, like ours. At this stage, the Princely economic mission that took place in the spring of 2014 was particularly unfortunate. I wanted to repeat it here.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic221x.u65	Minister, thank you for your answer. You are right to insist on these executions, because their number makes Saudi Arabia a world champion in this field, for totally unacceptable reasons. Secondly, I do not share what has just been said about the sale of the old F-16s, because Saudi Arabia is a state that really does not need to buy our old equipment, unless the economic situation has changed. I'm afraid that's not the case. Finally, I agree with your analysis that it is formal and informal contacts that will make it possible to move things forward. I would prefer local public opinion to speak out against this intolerable regime. Unfortunately, we know his policy of repression and remember the demonstrations that had been directed against the power, but that had been repressed in a terrible way. Today, the creation of a liberal Internet forum alone leads to this totally unacceptable situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic221x.u66	Minister, I agree that we should not radically cut all ties with all countries that violate human rights. But then there is a continuum, a spectrum, where one needs a root, but also a stick. What is your stick regarding Saudi Arabia? Can you give a concrete answer to that? I think you are actually crossing the border in a number of areas. Organising royal trade missions to Saudi Arabia and promoting the country for its particularly favourable and transparent business environment is such an example. That's a step too far. I agree with you that there is a need for balance, it is a scan without radically cutting all ties. In some areas, however, you are taking a number of wrong steps. This is a trade mission covered by the government. You're shaking from no, but she was, wasn't she? Saudi Arabia co-finances jihadist groups and schools in Syria that are closely associated with IS. So let's watch what we're doing there. I therefore agree that it is a continuum and a spectrum, but in a number of areas there is an exaggeration and insufficient use of the stick. So what is the stick you have in your diplomatic relationship with Saudi Arabia?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic221x.u67	Madam President, Minister, as you have said, this is the question of how far the diplomatic pressure is bringing results. You pointed out that following various interventions, including yours, this incredibly retrograde and unacceptable punishment of whipping had been suspended. It is true that while constant, firm, determined and coherent work at European Union level can continue in this direction, we must, first of all, always try to achieve results through negotiation and diplomacy, even if it must sometimes be secret. We will not therefore ask you to put on the public square the various channels that the departments of external relations of the various Member States can use to influence Saudi Arabia. However, at some point, the question will arise as to whether the expected and observed results are sufficient not to move on to a sanction regime. Indeed, we must not believe that the role of Saudi Arabia will be isolated in the current international context, as this may have been the case for South Africa at some point in time. We can regret it. This may be considered the most direct route, although it is known that for South Africa it took a few decades to achieve results through the gradual application of the sanction. It is therefore the point of rupture in the assessment that will allow us to know, at some point, what other regime could apply in bilateral or multilateral relations with Saudi Arabia. What we need is constant, repeated work, constant pressure that can actually influence this country. Indeed, our commercial relations with the latter are not in a single sense. Saudi Arabia also needs to export. It is therefore not indifferent to what the European Union represents as an economic partner.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic221x.u68	Madam Chair, Minister, thank you for your answers. Like my colleagues, I call on you to keep the pressure on all human rights violations in this country. I am thinking in particular of the case of Raïf Badawi for whom I ask you to continue to plead for his release.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic221x.u69	I always regret the fact that a European Member State takes an individual position without coordination. There was no coordination with our Swedish colleague on her statement. It is better to define a common position at European level, but we are now trying to move forward. It is true that the pressures that have been exerted so far have had an effect on the non-implementation of corporal sanctions. The process will be continued. I believe that these steps must be pursued in a direct and bilateral manner, in contact, as a number of parliamentarians have been, with relatives of Raif Badawi. I think they appreciated the steps we have taken. Thirdly, as far as the princely missions are concerned, I must repeat that there is an Agency for Foreign Trade. It is on the proposal of the three Regions that such a mission is organised. Perhaps I will send your comments to the various regional governments. It is a decision taken during the previous legislature. I think you know the political composition of the various majorities in the regional parliaments in the previous legislature. The federal government doesn't have a commissioner at that agency. It concerns only the board of directors with members of the Regions. I take note of your reaction. You said it was a mistake. I will forward that to the various regional governments, but this is rather a historical commentary from the previous majorities at regional level.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic221x.u70	Indeed, Minister, I think this is a mistake. Do you think it's a mistake?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic221x.u71	I've given my opinion. I don't want to continue this conversation. You may change your advice according to your position in the majority or in the opposition, that is possible. However, I regret that on such an important issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic221x.u72	Well, we were not in the majority in the previous legislature. Even so, I do not think it is bad if, for example, socialist groups change their minds. Still, that's okay. It may not be very consistent, but well, if people change ideas for the better, why not? You are in favour of European coordination. What if there is no strong, strong European position? In your opinion, can a country then only go further in its communication in the hope of stimulating the debate? I think this could be good. In addition, at the beginning of this year, I spoke of a royal mission called King Filip's visit to Saudi Arabia for King Abdullah's funeral. He's covered by the federal government, isn't he? In my view, such things are indeed wrong and we legitimize the regime too much. So I repeat my question: the root is good, but what is your stick? What is your stick regarding Saudi Arabia? I don't see enough of them.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic221x.u73	Madam Chair, thank you for agreeing to postpone my question. I was involved in the debate on Greece in the Finance Committee. Minister, my question was tabled a while ago. As you know, on 29 January last, the plenary session of the House was looking at your bill on automated processing of personal data necessary for Belgian passports and travel documents. Because of your absence during the debate on this project, it was not possible for me to obtain additional information regarding the installation of 7 "e-gates" (automated control portals) as part of a pilot project at Zaventem National Airport. While my group strongly defends the principle of freedom of movement within the Schengen framework and therefore adopts legislation encouraging it, it is not necessary, however, to remove any potential controls, in particular by "humans" rather than by automatic portals. Indeed, when we know that minors who do not have parental authorisation manage to fly from Zaventem by passing the automatic portals already present for intra-European destinations, I wonder. Therefore, Mr Minister, would it not be better to maintain certain human controls without using machines that have already shown their faults and thus avoid, for example, the departure of minors abroad without their parents' permission? Can an airport take such automatic control measures without consulting the authorities? What monitoring will be carried out by the Belgian State?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic221x.u74	Madam President, Mr Crusnière, I have already had the opportunity to address the problem when we dealt with the Consular Code in the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Since you weren't here, I'm going back to the subject. The installation of e-gates at Zaventem National Airport and their use for border controls fall within the competence of the Federal Police Border Control Service. With regard to parental authorization, there is no Belgian or international form or procedure which lays down the rules for the travel of minors. However, we recommend that written authorization be provided if the child travels alone or with other persons than the parents. Practical information is available on the Department of Foreign Affairs website. If the child only travels with one of his or her parents, the parent has the freedom to have the other parent's agreement certified in writing, to legalize the signature by his or her municipality and to take the written agreement on travel. As I said in the debate on the Consular Code, it is obvious that if people are informed in a number of data banks, which would lead to a blockage at the borders during physical control, the same blockage will occur through the "e-gates". I therefore do not believe that there is any particular problem in this area. There are, of course, a number of additional physical controls. Here we are in exactly the same kind of procedure and I think the Minister of the Interior could confirm that. The same rules will apply whether the control takes place digitally or physically.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic221x.u75	I don't have a reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic221x.u76	I should like to apologize to Mr Lijnen and Mr Van Hoof.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic221x.u77	Madam President, Minister, according to the new report published by Amnesty International, the Iranian authorities could, through the application of two pieces of legislation, cause the rights of women and girls to be reduced by several decades in this country. Their goal is to increase fertility and prevent population decline by prohibiting sterilization, voluntary contraception. Combined with the abolition of State funding for the family planning programme, this would result in an increase in unwanted pregnancies forcing more women to turn to illegal and dangerous abortions, and an increase in sexually transmitted diseases, including HIV. The project would also strengthen gender-based discrimination, particularly against women who choose not to marry and have no or no children. The law requires all private and public bodies when recruiting certain positions to give priority in order to men with children, married men without children and married women with children. In addition, it makes divorce more difficult and discourages the involvement of the police and the judiciary in family conflicts, thus increasing the risk of domestic violence. The authorities here encourage a dangerous culture that deprives women of essential rights and treats them as machines for making children, not as human beings who enjoy the fundamental rights to make choices for their bodies and for their lives. Minister, how do you look at these laws? Such legislation does not comply with international standards of respect for human rights, including sexual and reproductive rights, or equality between men and women. Will this issue be addressed in your bilateral interviews with the Iranian authorities?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic221x.u78	Madam President, before answering the questions, I would like to point out that there is a lively debate in Iran itself on this issue which reveals a great diversity of opinions. It is obvious that there are conservative forces in Iran, as in other countries, who believe that the only place for women is to be a mother in the home. On the other hand, many social changes have taken place in Iran in favour of women. For example, women account for more than 50% of university students. On the one hand, there is no doubt that the lives of women in Iran are characterized by discrimination, on the other hand, the independence of the Iranian woman and her ability to make decisions based on her own interests and views should not be underestimated. I was able to establish this myself during a visit to Iran last year. Because I attach great importance to the promotion and protection of women's rights, I insisted on having meetings with Iranian women. During that visit, I also informed about the state of play in the ratification process of the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women. Despite a declaration of intent in 2010, Iran has not yet ratified this treaty. Our country attaches great importance to the ratification and compliance with this Convention. We regard this Convention as the ideal instrument for promoting women's rights. I have noted with concern the Amnesty International report and the two legislative proposals. Therefore, during the interactive dialogue with the special rapporteur for the human rights situation in Iran on 16 March 2015, Belgium expressed its concern about the issue in the UN Human Rights Council. Our country has also taken the opportunity to regret that Iran has still not ratified the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women. On the general human rights situation in Iran, I can inform you that Belgium has supported the recent resolution in the UN Human Rights Council on the human rights situation in Iran. The issue of women's rights is also high on the agenda by Belgium and the EU both in bilateral and multilateral contacts. In this context, I refer to the participation at a high level, both by Belgium and by the EU, in the recent session of the Women's Statute Commission. I personally attach great importance to the promotion and protection of women's rights. That is why on International Women's Day, together with my Dutch colleague, I supported the He-for-She campaign of the UN Women and called on all men to do the same. At the informal Foreign Affairs Council in Riga, I carried the pin of the campaign. Several Belgian embassies have followed my call and organised activities in the wake of International Women's Day. We will continue to do so in all bilateral contacts. Mr Blanchart, I can confirm that we will continue to follow the progress of the texts that are currently being tabled in Iran. On the occasion of the various bilateral contacts, whether through diplomats or personally, we will again be able to insist on the subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic221x.u79	Minister, thank you for your answers and I welcome your interest in women's rights.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic221x.u80	Madam President, Minister, as we know, the Israeli people went to the polls on 17 March. In the regional context, these elections were of vital importance as the debates were lively within the Hebrew state and their potential consequences for the situation in the Middle East could be significant. While the results are now known and the government is in place, I would like to ask you, minister, the following questions. As you analyse the results of the elections and the statements made by Mr. Netanyahu on the eve of the elections in which he opposed the recognition of the Palestinian State? Have you seen since then a reorientation in Israeli policy, not least in terms of colonization policy but also in terms of the destruction of Belgian Development Cooperation projects? How have our country and the international community since then been able to contribute to the practical resumption of the peace process? Finally, Minister, with the new government in place, have you undertaken any initiatives, in particular, to determine the timing at which you are conditioning the recognition of Palestine by our country? In addition, my other questions relate to the arbitrary Israeli arrests. I have already asked you twice about the situation of Itiraf Rimawi, director of the Bisan Center (partner since 2003 of a Belgian NGO active in Palestine), who was arrested by the Israeli authorities in Palestine. On two occasions, you replied that you would seek more information about this arrest. Could you tell me today what information you have been able to collect since my last question in February? Have you had any contact with the Israeli authorities on the subject of arbitrary arrests? If so, what position have you defended, inter alia, with regard to respect for human rights, the rights of defence and international law?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic221x.u81	Minister, before the Israeli elections, which took place on 16 March, Israeli Prime Minister Netanyahu, then sitting, said that if he were re-elected, there would be no Palestinian State during his term of office. Those elections were over and Netanyahu's party, Likoed, won them and meanwhile formed a coalition with parties on the right and religious parties. In response to a French peace initiative, he later said, after my question was put, that Israel does not accept international dictatorships. It's just how people put things together. That a country does not accept dictatorships, I can imagine, but perhaps the meaning goes a little wider. The developments, both inside and outside Israel, are certainly being welcomed with some concern, hence my question. We strongly support the two-state solution with our country. That's undisputed politics. Against that background, how do you view the statements of Benjamin Netanyahu? Are there any opportunities to urge your European counterparts that Netanyahu should also engage in a constructive peace process? How do you see the future of the peace process, which is to come? Does the Israeli Government's attitude affect the Belgian attitude towards the Palestinian-Israeli conflict?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic221x.u82	Minister, every time you come to answer questions, there will also be questions about Israel and Palestine, hoping that we can push the issue forward. I also have a question about restarting the peace negotiations between Israel and Palestine. Before the elections in Israel, we heard very often that it would take until after the elections for further steps to be taken on the peace process between Israel and Palestine. In the meantime, those elections have been over for some time and we know the results. In the run-up to the elections, we heard some very disturbing statements by Benjamin Netanyahu regarding the two-state solution and the continuation of the settlement policy in East Jerusalem, Mr De Roover also referred to it. Those statements confirm the suspicion that Netanyahu does lip service to the two-state solution, but does not intend to ensure that the real conditions are realized in practice in order to achieve them. The situation has evolved in such a way that it is even thought in Washington to re-evaluate the approach to the peace process. From the EU, Federica Mogherini Netanyahu congratulated on his election victory, adding that the EU will cooperate with the new Israeli government on a mutually beneficial relationship, as well as on the relay of the peace process. Minister, what are the implications of the new dynamics and a number of more recent dynamics in Belgium's approach to the peace process? How will Belgium ensure that Israel is committed to creating the conditions for the two-state solution and to making an independent Palestinian state a reality? What position does Belgium take in the European steps taken in this regard? How do you feel about Israel's sneaking policy in relation to the Temple Mount, the forced deportations and the settlement policy? A few months ago, an EU report was leaked containing several recommendations for the EU's response. What is your position on this?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic221x.u83	Mr President, my colleagues have already referred to the new fact, as long as it can be described as such, which is due to the fact that Prime Minister Benyamin Netanyahu has had to be re-elected because of his harsh and unjustified statements against any idea of recognition of a Palestinian state as long as he is Prime Minister. Of course, this allowed him to win a parliamentary majority, but he had to find allies who were even more nationalistic and religiously sectarian than his party represented. It is felt that today, the State of Israel, through the policy of its Government, has decided once and for all to put an end to any desire to recognize the Palestinian State and to allow only a Palestinian authority that is truly armed by the international community or by a number of its allies to survive. That is to say how worrying this choice to block the resumption of the peace process by the will of the present ruling majority in Israel is and leaves less and less room for manoeuvre for the international community, the quintet, those who are trying to regain Oslo's spirit, which seems to be permanently buried by the Israeli government. Once again, the only diplomatic channel or authority of Belgian diplomacy alone cannot achieve the desired results, but, very often in this question, the Belgian State has tried to play a pilot role. It is regrettable that our voice has not been stronger in the European Union on the sanctions to be applied if the Israeli Government continues its policy of expanding the settlements. It all begins with the desire to have real sanctions applied in case of expansion of the colonies. The extension of these settlements is the ultimate negation of any existence of the Palestinian State. In addition to the violation of international law, we see what this has deliberately led to. Minister, I would like to ask you in particular about this aspect. The Israeli Prime Minister suggested that he would intensify the policy of occupation of the Palestinian territories. And it is now that the European Union, in support of other partners in the international community, must clearly signify that this development is no longer acceptable.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic221x.u84	Mr President, the most important thing now is to know how to relaunch the peace process with the two actors involved. It is clear that Belgium will spare no effort to achieve a resumption of talks as long as there is only negotiated peace. As you know, we believe that the European Union must play a greater role. Belgium has pleaded a great deal in recent times for this to be translated into practice, and I have done so tirelessly at the Foreign Affairs Council. I am pleased to note that the European Union has finally appointed a special representative in March to deal with this issue on a full-time basis. It was a long-standing request from the Belgian Government. It is still a little too early to say precisely how the international community will guide the resumption of negotiations, since the Israeli government coalition has been announced quite recently and we cannot prejudge its exact intentions with regard to the peace process, even though the declarations on a two-State solution are rather worrying. We are, of course, aware of the worrying comments made during the campaign. Now that the elections have taken place, it is important to stick to the facts and direct our efforts towards a new start in this peace process. I deplore what has been said and its potential impact on the relationship of trust between the two parties. However, our position must be based on the government's agenda and the concrete choices made by the Israeli government rather than on campaign statements. A constructive peace process must be initiated. As for the recognition of Palestine, you know the position of the government. Different elements must be taken into account in making this recognition, with a view to the positive impact it could have on reviving or supporting an inclusive political process of negotiation between Israelis and Palestinians. We will therefore continue to assess this issue on the basis of this criterion in close consultation with our European counterparts. The main objective, the compass and the black point of our politics is and will continue to be the two-state solution and the creation of a sovereign, independent, viable and democratic Palestinian state, which lives in freedom alongside the State of Israel, whose security must also be assured. We are aware of the worrying situation in Jerusalem and of the dangerous consequences of settlement policy, a policy which I have regularly and unequivocally condemned. I regret the fact that internal EU documents are being leaked. The EU report will be examined within the EU Member States and will certainly be an element in our evaluation of the situation on the ground. Mrs Grovonius, I have indeed been questioned twice about the requests for information that we have systematically addressed to the Israeli authorities for further clarification of the allegations of arbitrary detention and, in part, of the detention of Mr Rimawi, which was extended in May. As you know, he is not a Belgian national and, as such, he does not benefit from our consular protection. We deplore the arbitrary arrests in general and the situation of Mr. Rimawi in particular. We have asked for information about it and we will continue to ask for it. For now, we're not getting any. It is obviously not just up to us to obtain them, since there is no legal basis on which we could demand that this information be provided to us. I repeat, we do not have a direct consular role in this matter. As for the more general question of arbitrary arrests, I repeat that we are absolutely opposed to them. There has been no high-level contact since our last parliamentary discussions between the Israeli authorities and Belgium or the European Union, particularly because of the electoral campaign and the absence of a new government that lasted until 6 May. It goes without saying, however, that we will raise this issue when the opportunity arises, particularly in the context of the dialogue between the European Union and Israel on human rights. With regard to actions within the European Union, I would like to point out, following Mr Maingain's remark, that we have not only advocated and finally obtained the appointment of a special representative of the European Union, which should enable the European Union to play a role, not just to pay but to be politically active in the peace process. In the past, we often regretted being there to pay but not to play. Now, maybe we'll have an opportunity to go a little further. I would always like to organise a number of contacts to foster relations between citizens, business leaders or other Israeli and Palestinian actors. I have tried long enough to carry out actions to get a meeting on the economic ground between Israeli and Palestinian operators. This was not possible on the basis of the wishes of the various States involved in the process. This proposal is being put back on the carpet again. I hope that at some point it can evolve. I would also point out that, among the few initiatives that have been taken so far, Belgium has been at the forefront in the labelling of products from the colonies. So far, I have not been able to obtain a Benelux agreement on this subject, but under the previous government I have communicated to the Minister for the Economy my wish that we should move forward in Belgium at least on a voluntary basis. I have now been able to convince more than half of the European States to follow us and therefore to co-sign a letter with me, which I have given to the High Representative, Mrs Federica Mogherini, asking for a number of arrangements to be finally applied in European law on this subject. It is always possible to go further. So far, we have received the support of more than half of the states. I have therefore been able to ask the High Representative to verify the implementation at European level at least of the existing provisions in this field. Of course, I am well aware of the difficulty that will be faced by all those who will want to encourage the resumption of dialogue, but there are no other solutions. Without having at least the two partners around the table, we will not succeed in advancing the two-State solution to which we are committed. I recognize that the decision to expand the colonies more and more, gives less chance to this solution to emerge in the month and years to come.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic221x.u85	Minister, I agree with you. It is essential that we keep to the facts. Unfortunately, every day the colonies are gaining ground and expanding. Every day, men, women, but also Palestinian children are arrested and arbitrarily detained. It's good to oppose it, but I think it's better to act. I believe that the question of sanctions must really be asked. In this connection, I would be curious to know where we are about the claim for compensation for our Belgian cooperation projects, which were destroyed several months ago. It is essential that dialogue be resumed. A new peace process should also be restarted, as it no longer exists. This cannot be done under any conditions and in any setting. In my view, this process cannot be carried out without the fact that there are partners around the table who are considered equal. Palestinians cannot be constantly asked to come to the negotiating table without giving them the opportunity to be there as a fully-fledged State.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic221x.u86	Minister, the question I have asked comes from someone who is a very great supporter of Israel's right to exist, and also from that of the Palestinian State. It is because of this concern that I am concerned about developments in Israel, because I fear that, in the long term, the security of Israel, which the government's policy is clearly directed towards, will be greatly compromised by that government policy. Paradoxically, the so-called pro-Israeli position will in the long term prove to be a particularly dangerous position for Israel and its security. The situation in Israel and the relationship with the Palestinian territories play a very important role in the minds of many of us young people about the relations between communities elsewhere in the world. Our country must make it clear that it wishes to grant the same rights on both sides in the same way. There must be no ambiguity about this.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic221x.u87	Minister, there are, of course, a number of positive elements, as you have mentioned, for example the sending of a special envoy by Europe and, of course, your repeated condemnations of the settlements. It is very important that this continues to happen. I am also pleased that there has been progress in labelling. However, I would like to continue to insist on a special and serious attention from the government and you in particular to achieve a real peace process and to help create the conditions for an independent Palestinian state.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic221x.u88	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Luykx's 3021 was postponed at the request of the author.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic221x.u89	Mr President, Minister, in mid-May the Baltic States requested a permanent presence of NATO troops on their territory in order to cope with Russia's increased air and naval activity in the region. This is a very old demand from Estonia, Lithuania and Latvia, which reappears in the context of the current crisis and reflects the fears of these States for their security. In the context of increased tensions, each side seems to strengthen its positions. We talked about it just now, there's a response on both sides. Minister, what is the evolution of the situation in NATO with regard to the Baltic countries?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic221x.u90	Mr Blanchart, this increased NATO military presence in the Baltic countries and Poland is part of the so-called immediate assurance measures, which were decided last year at the Cardiff Summit in Wales as part of the new Readiness Action Plan of the Atlantic Alliance. These insurance measures provide NATO forces with a higher level of preparedness in a changing security environment at European borders. In support of the implementation of this plan, Belgium sent, from January this year until September, four of its F-16s to defend Baltic airspace. Our aircraft operate from the Polish Air Force Base in Malbork. As early as October, our country will participate, with an inter-armed tactical group of about 250 military personnel, in a combined training exercise in Lithuania. I am obviously concerned about the development of relations between Russia and NATO. We have seen an adjustment of Russian military doctrine that NATO is now considered a military threat, as well as an increase in the number of Russian offensive exercises. Moreover, we cannot accept the way in which Russia treats its immediate neighbours, nor the lack of respect for international law and its historic commitments. We remain convinced, along with other Member States, that the door to dialogue must remain open and that we must strengthen confidence-building measures between NATO and Russia with these two objectives in mind, which we include in the doctrine defined by my predecessor Pierre Harmel a few years ago in the cold war: the Atlantic Alliance must be sufficiently strong militarily while remaining open to dialogue at the political level. The use of confidence-building measures could contribute to de-escalation and avoid involuntary accidents. Therefore, we have recently proposed to re-examine direct channels of communication between the highest command structures and to re-establish direct lines of communication between the SACEUR and the Russian CHOD. If Russia demonstrates its willingness to de-escalate and if positive developments on the ground emerge, our country is also ready to reopen the dialogue currently suspended within the framework of the NATO-Russia Council.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic221x.u91	Thank you, Minister. Earlier, I described to you a little bit the movements of Russian troops. You have confirmed them to us and now you describe the movements of the Atlantic troops. We are truly in this game of intimidation between the two border forces. The situation remains worrisome.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic221x.u92	Minister, the new President of the African Union announced that Africa's withdrawal from the International Criminal Court (ICC) would take place in June, following the African Union meeting. I would point out that this question dates from March. Robert Mugabe proposed the creation of an African Court of International Justice. The International Criminal Court has been heavily criticized for many years by African heads of State. According to a United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) survey conducted in September 2014, 28% of the population in the regions concerned by cases before the ICC believed that the Court had a negative influence on peace. What could be the consequences of the African Union's withdrawal from the ICC? What would be an African Court of International Justice? Since withdrawal, like ratification of the Rome Statute, was a sovereign decision, were all African States on the same page? What about our African cooperation partner countries, according to your information? How would our country and the European Union position themselves if this decision were to be implemented?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic221x.u93	Mr. Crusnière, rumours of an African Union decision that would require African States parties to the Rome Statute to withdraw from the Rome Statute have been made by some leaders of States parties and others who are not stakeholders, sometimes with the most virulent opponents of the ICC. The ICC's opponents blame the court for almost exclusively prosecuting cases in Africa. These criticisms were launched in response to the issuance of arrest warrants against Sudanese President al-Bashir and summonses against Kenyan President Kenyatta and Vice-President Ruto for their role in post-election violence in Kenya in 2007 and 2008. But, I repeat, no decision was taken by the African Union, apart from the adoption of the Malabo Protocol at the African Union summit in June 2014. In any event, a possible withdrawal could not be decided in that way, since that should be done sovereignly by each State party to the Rome Statute. The African Union is not part of it as such. A withdrawal would have consequences only for the future and would not put an end to the ongoing cases. Fortunately, a large number of African States parties to the Rome Statute support and cooperate with the ICC. African States, in their capacity as States parties to the Cotonou Agreement with the European Union, have committed themselves, by promoting the strengthening of international peace and justice, to sharing experiences regarding the adoption of legislative amendments necessary to enable the ratification and implementation of the Rome Statute of the ICC and to combating international crime in accordance with international law, taking due account of the Rome Statute. Article 11(7) of the Cotonou Agreement provides that the Parties shall endeavour to take measures to ratify and implement the Rome Statute and related instruments. The least we can say is that preliminary considerations are necessary before a State, which is a party to the Cotonou Agreement, decides to withdraw from the Rome Statute. Africa is both a subject and an object in the administration of international criminal justice. The former Minister of Justice of Senegal, Mr. Kaba, has just been elected as the new President of the Assembly of States Parties to the Rome Statute in December 2014. And the current prosecutor of the court, Ms. Fatou Bensouda is the former Minister of Justice of the Gambia. Both are actively and diplomatically working to improve the image and effectiveness of the court in Africa and to bring the court closer to the victims who are just as African as their executioners. I hope they can succeed in their endeavours.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic221x.u94	Minister, thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic221x.u95	Mr. Speaker, Minister, on March 10, the Utah legislature passed a law re-integrating the firing squad when lethal injection drugs are exhausted. Texas would be tempted to follow this example and re-establish another method for its future executions. At issue is the EU embargo on the export of medicines and the refusal of multinational pharmaceutical companies to sell them. This has contributed to a national shortage of drugs most commonly used in lethal injections. The state of Utah, in the south-west of the country, has already decided to return to the execution platoon's solution. Minister, in our bilateral relations, how is the issue of the death penalty addressed with the United States? This question is revived by the use of such methods. What is the procedure in Belgium if extradition to the United States was to be requested in a State using the death penalty?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic221x.u96	Mr President, Mr Blanchart, as you know, the abolition of the death penalty is a priority for both the European Union and Belgium. The latter therefore systematically addresses the issue of capital punishment in its bilateral contacts. We are continuing our efforts within the framework of the European Union to combat this practice in international forums and bilateral contacts. In 1998, the Member States of the European Union decided to step up their activities related to the fight against the death penalty and adopted guidelines in this regard. These guidelines were updated in 2013. The European Union intends to advocate the universal abolition of the death penalty, call for a reduction in the execution of the death penalty where it still exists and insist that it be applied in accordance with certain minimum rules and with maximum transparency. It is also in this context that the regulation on trade in certain goods used for the execution of the death penalty, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment is in place. If, in individual cases, the minimum standards are not met in the course of capital executions, the European Union shall undertake special actions in the form of démarches. This is why, in the face of such situations, Belgium intervenes at Union level. Recently, the European Union has, for example, taken action on three individual cases in the United States. The process takes place regardless of the country concerned. With regard to the issue of extradition, I must refer you to the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic221x.u97	Minister, thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic221x.u98	Mr President, Minister, the fall in the price of the barrel has upset the situation between producing and importing countries. Angola, whose economy is based on hydrocarbons, is severely affected by the fall in oil prices. Its president, José Eduardo Dos Santos, quickly took measures such as the suspension of foreign debt repayments and the urgent reduction of the State budget for 2015 by almost 17%. Transfers of capital to foreign countries and imports of goods have also been frozen until further notice. This applies in particular to agri-food products for which Angola produces only 60% of its needs. Angola's economic growth is one of the fastest in the world (5.1 per cent in 2013) and is projected to grow by 7.9 per cent in 2014 and 8.8 per cent in 2015 thanks to investments in public infrastructure, particularly in energy and transport. However, the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) reports that almost a quarter of the population is unemployed and that 36% lives below the poverty line. Minister, some analysts are announcing a real economic tsunami as well as social tensions that are difficult to control if this economic situation persists. What are our embassy's feedback on the situation in that country and its evolution? What about the economic and diplomatic exchanges between our country and the European Union with that country? A fifth African economic power, the second largest producer of African oil after Nigeria, the standard of living has changed little. How can this lack of fair redistribution in this country be explained?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic221x.u99	Mr President, Mr Blanchart, since September 2014, Angola, like all producing countries, is obviously facing a drop of almost 60% in oil revenues. The shock is as brutal as it was in 2008, but Angola is better prepared for it. The country has more foreign currency reserves, low inflation and better fiscal management. The statistical system now works better than in 2008-2009 and the data are available faster. Finally, the Angolan private sector has been significantly more responsive to the crisis, in particular because its profit margins are now lower than six years ago. The Angolan government's analysis is that the fall in oil prices is an external exogenous shock that causes it a double balance of payments and budget problem. Its political response is, therefore, both to curb imports and to limit public spending. The maintenance of foreign exchange reserves at a level of six months of imports has led the Government to take various measures to limit them, notably by imposing quotas on foodstuffs and by curbing the outflow of foreign currency capital. In 2002, following a civil war, Angola was an exsangued country. The conflict caused the death of one million people and the displacement of four million Angolans. All infrastructure has been left in ruins. Agricultural production had collapsed. Its resumption was compromised by the presence of more than six million anti-personnel mines. Since 2002, Angola has experienced dramatic double-digit economic growth, financed mainly by crude oil exports. In 2005, the Angolan government adopted a national reconstruction strategy. In 2008, it was complemented by a long-term strategy "Angola 2025", followed by a five-year plan 2013-2018. The country's socio-economic development was discussed during the Princely Economic Mission in October 2013 and during a meeting between Angolan and Belgian Development Cooperation Ministers in March 2014. Belgium then welcomed the progress made over the past decade. Through the European Development Fund, our country has contributed to this. Faced with the current economic situation, the Angolan Government would consider earmarking all financial resources as a matter of priority for the purchase of basic foodstuffs, medicines, raw materials necessary for the operation of the national industry and equipment for oil & gas services. Of course, we continue to monitor the situation and develop trade and investment relations with Angola, as we did during the economic mission led by Princess Astrid in October 2013.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic221x.u100	Minister, thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic221x.u101	Mr President, Minister, in an article by Sabrina Myre de Jeune Afrique published on 19 March 2015, there is talk of sexual abuse committed in 2014 by MONUSCO peacekeepers in Beni, Democratic Republic of the Congo. Thus, about 80 new cases of sexual abuse committed by UN agents were reported in 2014 in this region. These would be in addition to the 79 cases registered in 2013. These elements are contained in the report of Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon. The report also highlights the existence of similar cases in South Sudan and Haiti, mainly in peacekeeping operations. To stem the problem, the Secretary-General of the United Nations reiterated several proposals to Member States aimed at strengthening the zero-tolerance policy on sexual abuse. Minister, in the face of these unacceptable figures, I would like to ask you the following questions. What legal framework does it apply to peacekeepers in the event of such abuses in the context of a United Nations mission when they are proven? How does Belgium stand with regard to the proposals made by the Secretary-General of the United Nations? Does Belgium intend to support them? What legal framework and reporting do they apply to our Belgian soldiers when they take part in a UN mission? If such abuses were to be committed by Belgian military personnel, what would be the prosecution procedure? Is there a policy in place at the level of the Belgian army to prevent such unacceptable acts? My second question concerns an investigation report that the British daily The Guardian said it had consulted on suspicions of abuses committed between December 2013 and June 2014 in a centre for internally displaced persons located at the Mpoko airport in Bangui, the capital of the Central African Republic. The report includes on-site testimonies by United Nations investigators of young boys accusing French soldiers of having raped them and of having abused them in exchange for food or money. One of these young boys is just nine years old. These elements are contained in a report allegedly classified as confidential but allegedly transmitted to France by a United Nations staff member. This person is now suspended and is at risk of being dismissed. More recently, an article of 1 July last revealed the suspension of two French soldiers on whom there are suspicions of sexual assault on minors in Burkina Faso. Long before the public disclosure of these facts, the Secretary-General of the United Nations had made several proposals aimed at strengthening the zero-tolerance policy on sexual abuse. Minister, what legal framework does it apply to military personnel in the event of such abuses in the context of a UN, European or NATO mission when they are proven? How can we understand that this UN report was classified as top secret vis-à-vis the French authorities? How would our country react to such reports? What policy does our country pursue in relation to the issue of prostitution with regard to our citizens in the context of such missions? What preventive measures are in place to prevent such events?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic221x.u102	Mr President, Mrs Grovonius, the question of the criminal liability of UN officials and experts on mission has been discussed by the UN General Assembly for more than ten years. It has already been the subject of several reports of the Secretary-General and resolutions of the General Assembly. Belgium has collaborated in particular with the Secretary-General in the drafting of these reports by providing information on Belgian law applicable to such situations. The current debate included the question of whether a new text of international law in the form of a general convention should be drawn up to deal with that issue. There is no consensus in the international community on the response. In the absence of an applicable international legal framework, national law applies, the law of the State in whose territory the mission is carried out and the national law of the country for which the person responsible is a national. It is the responsibility of the courts of the troop-contributing State, whose person is a national, to investigate and judge the acts committed which have been reported to it by the Secretary-General. Those States are encouraged to adapt their legislation, where appropriate, to enable their jurisdictions to investigate and prosecute such crimes. Cases not dealt with by national courts are dealt with directly by the United Nations. Belgium has always supported and contributed to the Secretary-General in dealing with this issue and will continue to do so. The European Union also supports the Secretary-General in this work and has already expressed its support for the establishment of a binding comprehensive legal framework, clarifying this issue. I fully agree with the Secretary-General that the zero-tolerance policy on sexual abuse needs to be strengthened. I can also inform you that, in its contribution to the ongoing evaluation of United Nations peace operations, Belgium has specifically advocated that the obligation to intervene in cases of violence against the civilian population, including sexual abuse, be included in the mandates of peacekeeping operations. I welcome the fact that the initial report of the panel of experts in charge of this assessment, which has just been made public, has been well based on the concept of zero tolerance. Belgium has also advocated and secured the strengthening of this theme in the European Union's joint contribution, which focuses on preventing and combating sexual exploitation and abuse, as well as the impunity that is sometimes linked to it. While I repeat that Belgian military personnel are being prosecuted and tried under the applicable national law, I suggest that you ask a number of other questions concerning the Belgian military more specifically to the Minister of Defence. The legal framework is the national law, the law of the State in whose territory the mission or the right of nationals who are sent on mission is carried out. It is therefore up to the courts to conduct the investigations and to make the judgement. With regard to European and NATO operations, national law is also applicable. It is customary for these missions to conclude an agreement with the host country by exchange of letters followed by a more elaborate SOFA, Status of Forces Agreement, which implies that the members of the forces engaged in the European mission or in the NATO mission will be tried in their own country for acts they have allegedly committed. With regard to Belgium, article 10bis of the preliminary title of the Code of Criminal Procedure stipulates that: "Any person subject to military law who has committed any offence in the territory of a foreign State may be prosecuted in Belgium. The same applies to persons who are attached in any capacity to a fraction of the army in foreign territory or to those who are authorized to follow a troop force that is part of it." According to the very preliminary information available to me, the United Nations report on sexual abuse in the Central African Republic was classified as confidential because an investigation was still under way and confidentiality was maintained in order to protect the identity of witnesses and victims. Anders Kompass, the person who informed the French authorities last year, is a high-level collaborator of the Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights who heads the field operations of the Office of the High Commissioner. He reportedly transmitted an internal and confidential report of the United Nations on this issue to the Permanent Mission of France in Geneva, without first referring to its hierarchy and with reference to the identities of witnesses, victims and suspects. As part of the UN Secretariat, Kompass is an official working under the authority of the High Commissioner, who in turn reports to the Secretary-General. I assure you that my services in Belgium, Geneva and New York are following this file closely. At this stage, they have not yet had a formal debriefing of the High Commissioner for Human Rights or the Secretary-General of the United Nations on this issue. As I mentioned, Belgium is calling for the strengthening of the zero-tolerance policy on sexual abuse and is closely following the debate on the criminal responsibility of United Nations officials and experts on mission, which has been taking place in the General Assembly for more than ten years. In this forum, we urge that the means of action be strengthened through an international binding framework.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic221x.u103	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Hellings' 3413 was converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic221x.u104	Mr President, Minister, this question is actually a little dated. A few months ago, there was a plan for an EU-India summit, but that was cancelled. However, I would like to place my question in a broader context. Since his election, Prime Minister Modi has already visited several countries worldwide, including the US, Japan, Australia and Brazil. The visits were often fruitful, resulting in cooperation agreements. Since becoming Prime Minister, he has spent a day in Germany and a day in France. Europe was hardly on the agenda. I believe that we all agree that India is not only a global player, but also an important strategic partner with which we could face several shared challenges. Europe still does not fit enough on India's international agenda. I think there is a lot of unused potential for cooperation there. The organisation of an EU-India summit could therefore be very interesting. Minister, the last EU-India Summit dates back to 2012. Can you tell us why that summit didn't take place? Do you agree with me that there is a need for such a summit? What attitude does our country take in this matter? Are you planning to develop initiatives so that Prime Minister Modi would visit our country? Where does Belgium stand in this story? Do you agree that there is an urgent need for a more detailed vision from Belgium on how we can shape our cooperation? What bilateral initiatives have you already taken or are you willing to take to develop the relationship with a growing country such as India?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic221x.u105	Mr President, Mrs Claerhout, a free trade agreement with India is currently being negotiated. The European Commission wishes to give the free trade agreement negotiations every chance of success in order to sign the agreement together with India at the summit. Furthermore, 2014 was an election year both in India and in Europe, leading to the suspension of the FTA negotiations and the postponement of a possible EU-India summit. We are in that situation now. Like you, I regret that the EU-India Summit has not been able to take place since 2012 for reasons mentioned above. As you rightly point out, India is a strategic partner for the EU and cooperation between both partners still offers much potential for growth. Therefore, at a recent meeting at EU level, Belgium expressed its regret at a further postponement of the summit and urged the EU authorities to quickly contact the Indian authorities in order to set a new date for the summit. India is an important partner for Belgium. In 2014, bilateral trade in goods between the two countries amounted to €12.6 billion. The diamond trade occupies an important place in these trade relations. Prime Minister Modi's government was elected in May 2014 on the basis of an agenda of growth and development. Belgium and, in particular, our companies want to play an active role in this dynamic Indian market. A princely economic mission took place in November 2013, with 350 participants, in Delhi, Mumbai and Chennai. On that occasion, we opened a Consulate General in Chennai, which is a strong signal for India's importance to our country. In January 2015, Secretary of State for Foreign Trade Pieter De Crem visited New Dehli. A Joint Economic Commission Belgium-Luxembourg-India will take place this year in Dehli. There are also regular Indian visits to our country. On 27 October last year I received the Indian Minister of State for External Relations. The Prime Minister has sent a formal invitation to Prime Minister Modi for a bilateral visit. I hope that such a bilateral visit and perhaps a new summit can take place at European level.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic221x.u106	Thank you, Minister, for your statement. I hope that these next steps can be taken. I hope that there will also be a positive response to that invitation, which has apparently been sent. In the various activities you mentioned, you placed a strong emphasis on the economic aspects. I would like to stress that it is about much more. The visits in the rest of the world are also about cooperation agreements, research, innovation, education and all kinds of other sectors in society. This is, in general, sometimes a limitation in our vision of foreign policy. If we interact with growing countries, such as India, then it must also be about the relationship with the population. It's about much more than just the economic component.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic221x.u107	Minister, this question too is a little dated, but I will be able to tell from your answer whether there is any news about it recently. A while ago we held an exchange of views with representatives of the Kurdish Regional Government, Iraqi Kurdistan, in the Committee on Foreign Affairs. That representative told us that there is a need for military and humanitarian aid in that region. Indeed, an important part of the fight against IS is taking place in that region. That representative outlined the whole context and his question seemed legitimate. Mr Minister, was there at that time or is it being considered to send humanitarian aid to that region? If so, within what time frame? If not, why not? Do you also intend to have injured Iraqi Kurdistan admitted to Belgian hospitals to provide care here? What other EU countries already offer or have announced humanitarian assistance to Iraqi Kurdistan?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic221x.u108	Mr De Roover, you have tabled two questions on this, one on Iraqi Kurdistan and one on the united vision of the fight against IS. Can you formulate it in one piece?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic221x.u109	Mr President, I will try to pass on both questions to the Minister in a movement. Minister, Belgium has committed itself internationally to the fight against ISIS. In my question I also refer to the meeting we had with representatives of the Kurdistan Regional Government. The added value of the Kurds, including the Kurdish Peshmerga, in the fight against IS, is accepted internationally and generally. The statement has indeed shown that there is a great need for humanitarian and military support. Just as Mr De Vriendt did earlier, perhaps not with the same great enthusiasm, but with some enthusiasm, I refer to the text by Pieter Stockmans, who called the Kurds a possible stable partner in the events in that difficult region. Minister, you were in Erbil at the beginning of June. You spoke there about the situation on the ground and said that you were thinking of an economic mission. What was the result of your visit? Will you answer the question of the representative of the KRG to provide humanitarian aid? I have already asked questions about this in the past. How will you ensure that this aid actually comes to the spot? Sometimes it is difficult to find local partners. My second question concerns the international coalition against IS. One of the countries in the NATO membership region is Turkey. A few days ago, President Erdogan expressed his concern about the advance in Northern Syria of the PYD/YPG, the Kurdish fighters, at the expense of IS. He was angry that the US and the Kurdish fighters were bombing Arabs and Turkmen. The spokesman for the US Department of Foreign Affairs has, by the way, strongly denied this. Is there sufficient consensus among NATO in relation to IS and the fight against IS? What steps are being taken to achieve a common approach? What steps are being taken to strengthen a joint approach by the international coalition, which often has different political arguments and strategic objectives, in this conflict? What role do you see in this for Belgium?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic221x.u110	Mr President, Minister, I would like to ask you about Belgium's participation in the international coalition against ISIL. Belgium has been participating in this coalition for several months now, the current government having extended it several times and even extended it with the dispatch of Belgian soldiers to the ground for the formation of Iraqi troops. Both in the parliamentary debates and in the resolution adopted by the House, it was demanded that the international coalition against the Islamic State should intervene in a 3D strategy and that Belgium should take care of it. So far, however, the intervention of the international coalition, and therefore of Belgium, has been essentially military. Minister, how do you view the evolving security, political and diplomatic situation in the region? What is your assessment of the operations of the international coalition? Has the government finally developed a comprehensive approach? What is Iraq's place in Belgian and European diplomacy and military strategy? Have you ever discussed the exit strategy for the region with your European and international counterparts? How do you stand up to the statements of the Minister of National Defence who seems to want to extend Belgian participation with a few partners to do what he calls a "flip-flop"? In addition, the anti-Islamic coalition met in Paris on 2 June in order to redefine a strategy of struggle. A week later, you started a trip to Iraq and Jordan to visit our soldiers who have been there for several months. This trip also allowed you to meet many actors, whether in Jordan or Iraq. Minister, can you give us a debriefing of the meeting that took place at the Quai d'Orsay in Paris on June 2nd? Beyond military aspects, have diplomatic and development aspects been addressed as part of a 3D strategy? How do you view the security situation in the region? Has the issue of the millions of Iraqis displaced by the fighting in their country been addressed? According to non-governmental organisations, €450 million would be needed to help the Iraqi people and enable children to continue their school curriculum. Does Belgium intend to participate in this aid? On your trip to Iraq, you announced that Belgium would withdraw its six F-16s for budgetary reasons and start a rotation with the Netherlands. What is your assessment of the operations of the international coalition and of Belgian participation in it? Finally, during your meeting with the King of Jordan, you expressed the wish, among other things, to allow better collaboration with Jordanian secret services in order to better exchange information on foreign fighters. Can you also tell us at what stage this collaborative project is and what will be the framework for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic221x.u111	Mr President, I shall begin with Iraqi Kurdistan. This year, Belgium has already released EUR 4 million extra for humanitarian aid in response to the Iraq crisis. Of this, EUR 2 million was allocated to the activities of the World Food Programme, which in June 2015 provided for our contribution to continue food aid to people who were left behind in the conflict area, as well as to those who were internally relocated, many of whom are in Iraqi Kurdistan refugee camps. The remaining EUR 2 million was allocated to the International Committee of the Red Cross, which in turn assists those affected in Iraq by providing them with protection and medical assistance. However, we must point out that this aid is intended for the entire population of Iraq and is therefore not intended for the Iraqi Kurds in particular, although of course they will be part of the beneficiaries of this aid. Almost all European Member States have contributed to the financing of the needs of the Iraq crisis as a whole. During my meeting with the Kurdish authority in Erbil on 9 June I was asked to record wounded from Iraqi Kurdistan. We're going to investigate the possibilities. For the political aspects of our military support, I can answer the following. Belgium is convinced that the fundamental problems in Iraq must be solved if a lasting solution to the current serious crisis is to be found, so promoting more inclusiveness is a basic principle. Therefore, there is also a need to strengthen the structures in which the various components of Iraqi society can cooperate. You mention that several countries already support the Peshmerga. The international community cannot limit itself to supporting only one component of Iraqi society to the detriment of others. The Iraqi army, a fortiori in the present circumstances, must be at the very heart of the international community's efforts to generate more inclusiveness. If several countries support the Kurdish Peshmerga as part of a division of labour between the Allies, other countries will have to support the Iraqi army that depends on the central government. Belgium has assumed its responsibilities in this division of labour. Moreover, it will be the Iraqi army that will have the mission of releasing a large part of the territories occupied by Daesh or IS. Your questions also concern more military aspects that I propose to address to the Minister of Defence. More generally, the fight against the terrorist organisation Daesh is waged by a coalition, consisting of more than sixty countries. NATO itself has no mandate as an organisation to fight Daesh. The aim of the anti-Daesh coalition is to reduce Daesh's capacity and eventually defeat the organization. I'm sure it's a long-term work again. The group has defined a core definition to frame its action. In order to maintain cohesion within the coalition and ensure coherence between the strategic objectives and the more specific activities, a threefold structure was set up: a plenary meeting with all members of the coalition, a meeting of a smaller group performing the function of executive committee and a meeting of experts in different thematic working groups. All members of the coalition contribute to the organisation's objective in a different way: military, humanitarian or other. A meeting at the ministry of the international coalition against Daesh was held in Paris on 2 June 2015 at the invitation of my French colleague Laurent Fabius to conduct in-depth discussions on the situation in Iraq and Syria, military operations and other activities of the coalition, including working groups on the stabilization of liberated areas, the sustainable and safe return of refugees and displaced persons, including victims of ethnic and religious violence and the protection of cultural heritage. The two main objectives of the meeting can be summarized as follows: to have an exchange of views on the coalition strategy and to reaffirm the joint determination of coalition members to neutralize Daesh. From this point of view, the messages at the time about the loss of two cities obviously had a disastrous effect on the communication of the coalition. An attempt was therefore made to explain what progress had been made on the ground and to pass on strong messages on the need to achieve lasting political solutions to the Iraqi crisis, the only way to fight the terrorist group in the long term. In my speech in Paris, I stressed Belgium's commitment to the coalition, both in terms of its military contribution and in terms of efforts to halt the flow of foreign terrorist fighters and to implement strategic communication. With regard to the functioning of the coalition, I called for a better match between the different dimensions of its action and, in particular, for a greater alignment between the military strategy and the political strategy. I also called for an improvement in our communication on our actions. I called for better coordination and communication between working groups and other important international action forums within the United Nations, the European Union or elsewhere, in order to strengthen synergies. Belgium is not content with military action. My trips to Paris and the region were part of a strategy far beyond military action. Indeed, Belgium encourages the Iraqi government to urgently intensify its efforts to achieve greater inclusiveness on the ground, including in the ranks of the army. Efforts have also been made to support humanitarian needs in Iraq and throughout the region, both through Belgium and through the European Union. Together with our partners, we advocate for a large number of countries to participate in these efforts. As a reminder, for 2015, Belgium's contribution amounts to €4 million, namely €2 million for protection by the ICRC (International Committee of the Red Cross) and €2 million for food distribution by WFP (World Food Programme) in the province of Alhambar and in other regions hosting refugees. On the proposal of the Minister of Defence, the Council of Ministers will decide to perpetuate Belgian military action on the ground beyond the withdrawal of our F-16s at the end of June, with a preference for an alternate presence with the Netherlands. This decision will maintain our country's commitment for the long term. The Jordanian authorities have been in favour of an increased exchange of information between our intelligence services in order to better combat the phenomenon of foreign terrorist fighters. Contacts were facilitated between the competent Belgian services and their Jordanian counterparts following my on-site visit. The first milestones have been laid. It will then be up to the departments concerned to ensure a concrete follow-up in good intelligence, if I can afford the expression. I would just like to stress one point: success on the ground is achieved when there is perfect coordination between the coalition that organises air strikes and ground forces. This is indeed the case with the Peshmerga of Kurdistan. This will be more and more the case with the Iraqi army if we manage to organize an inclusive army of Shiites and Sunnis, thus having a much more effective capacity for action on the ground. That is what we are trying to do by asking the Iraqi government to go in that direction, but also by participating on the ground in the formation of the Iraqi army. I think this is happening right next to Baghdad Airport. I had the opportunity to visit Jordan and Erbil, but during the same period, the Minister of Defence visited Baghdad, which allowed us to meet all the Belgian soldiers on the ground. I would like once again to commend the efficiency and professionalism of our military in charge of field operations. The whole coalition welcomed the ability of our pilots to act without blundering, that is, without causing collateral damage to the missions entrusted to them. I think it's important to remind him too. This is one of the major concerns in our coalition interventions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic221x.u112	Minister, according to the report of a new Human Rights Watch research mission, the extremist armed group Islamic State (IS) has allegedly systematically committed rape and other sexual violence against women and girls belonging to the Yezidi minority in northern Iraq. Human Rights Watch documented an organized system of rape and sexual assault, sexual slavery and forced marriages imposed by El forces. Such acts constitute war crimes and could even constitute crimes against humanity. Many women and girls in this region are still missing, but those who have survived and are now in Iraqi Kurdistan need psychosocial support and other forms of assistance. Faced with these unacceptable facts in a still chaotic regional situation, I would like to ask you the following questions. Can you provide us with additional information on these cases of serious violence against women in the Yezidi community? What is Belgium doing specifically for this persecuted community within the framework of one or more of the three groups established by the anti-Daesh coalition (military action, actions against jihadists and counter-ideological strategy) in which Belgium is an active member?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic221x.u113	Mrs Grovonius, I share your concern about the human rights situation in Iraq and in particular the situation of Yezidi women. Like you, I believe that we cannot remain indifferent to such atrocities. This is why Belgium has made a clear and multi-faceted commitment to the international coalition against Daesh. Moreover, Belgium was one of the co-signatories of the request to hold a special session of the Human Rights Council on 1 September 2014. At that session, a resolution co-sponsored by Belgium was adopted. The resolution requested the Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights to send a field mission to investigate allegations of violations of human rights and humanitarian rights. The report of the Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights, which had been prepared by that mission, also contained information on violence against women in the Yemeni community. I have obviously taken note of this report and Belgium intervened during the interactive dialogue on this report to the Human Rights Council on 25 March and was shocked by the facts described in this report. In addition, Belgium co-sponsored a new resolution at the March session of the Human Rights Council, calling for a new report on the human rights situation in Iraq. I would also like to stress that Belgium made a statement on the victims of ethnic or religious attacks and abuses in the Middle East during the ministerial debate in the Security Council on 27 March. I personally met with a representative of the Yezidi community during my visit to Kurdistan last June to stress Belgium's solidarity with the atrocious sufferings of this minority and our willingness to continue our common fight against Daesh. It is important to know that in order to combat a number of atrocities – unfortunately there are many – committed by this group, we must not only be able to reverse it, but also probably eradicate it, whether on the territory of Iraq, Syria or elsewhere. This is the goal – as I recall – of our commitment to the operations currently being carried out in the region.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic221x.u114	Mr President, since spring 2013, violence between Muslims and Christians has killed thousands of people in the Central African Republic, one of the poorest countries on the planet. The gold and diamond mines are at the centre of the fighting and have created religious tensions where there were none. Before the conflict, 70 per cent of the population lived below the poverty line, and the situation has since deteriorated dramatically. The sale of gold and diamonds provided the government's main source of revenue. Central African Republic, freed from the Kimberley Process in 2013, no longer has access to the certified market for clandestine trafficking. September 2014 marked the end of the African Union peacekeeping mission. A new United Nations mission has taken over, with a mandate to protect civilians and support the extremely poor transitional government. Minister, what is your view of this situation? What are the prospects for the future (especially in socio-economic terms) and what role do Belgium and the EU play/can play in this context? How is the transitional government organized? How does it position itself in relation to the thorny issue of natural resources? What is the outcome of the United Nations mission to protect civilians?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic221x.u115	Mr Blanchart, security has improved in the capital in Bangui and in the provinces. Overall, the situation on the ground remains mixed. A reconciliation forum was held in Bangui from 4 to 11 May. Several advances have been made in this forum or on the margins of it: the adoption of a Republican Pact for Peace, National Reconciliation and Reconstruction, the signing of an agreement on DDRR between the Transitional Government and 9 armed groups, the agreement between UNICEF and armed groups on the release of child soldiers, and the establishment of a truth-justice and reconciliation commission. A new UN Resolution 22/17 was also adopted on 28 April. It extends the mandate of the peacekeeping force by one year, until 30 April 2016. The European Union is particularly active in the CAR, EUFOR RCA mission, completed in mid-March 2015, EUMAM RCA mission, Military Advisory Mission, launched on 16 March 2015 with the objective of training the Central African armed forces, supporting the future electoral process, 1st tranche of 8 million euros out of 19 million promised. The European Union has also set up with some Member States a European Trust Fund, the Bêkou Fund, to ensure urgent transition and development. The fund currently has 74 million euros. Three projects have already been launched through this fund in the areas of health, public infrastructure and the strengthening of women's economic and social positions. Belgium does not participate in the fund itself but makes a certain contribution to the CAR through its humanitarian aid, for a total of 7,345,000 euros for 2015-2016. The CAR was suspended in May 2013 from the Kimberley Process, the international certification regime for rough diamonds, which prohibits its export. Until then, diamond was the country's main source of revenue. Without this contribution, the Transitional Government quickly stated its desire to make the issue of natural resource control a priority in order to be able to return to the process as soon as possible. The CAR has proposed a road map that includes partial lifting of sanctions in the West, where the security situation is less problematic. The Ministry of Mines has been redeployed to some areas, mainly in the West. The mine police are again partially in place on the ground. A mining brigade project is also under consideration. In this context, Resolution 22/17 calls on MINUSCA (United Nations Multidimensional Integrated Stabilization Mission in the Central African Republic) to support the development of a national plan to combat the illegal exploitation of natural resources. A Kimberley Process mission, in which Belgium was a representative of the European Union, visited CAR from 28 April to 5 May to see the progress made on the ground and a possible partial reintegration of the country. The report of this mission is still being drafted. A high-level mission of the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights visited CAR from 10 to 14 February. It was intended to ask the transitional authorities to protect its population. It also asked the police and gendarmerie, with the support of international forces on the ground, to provide a more effective guarantee in several parts of the country. In addition, new resolution 22/17, which I referred to, mentions the protection of civilians as one of MINUSCA's immediate priority tasks.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic221x.u116	Minister, thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic221x.u117	Minister, I would like to question you following the discovery of a mass grave in which 424 bodies were found in a cemetery in Maluku 80 km from Kinshasa. The authorities explained to the inhabitants, bothered by the odours, that these 424 bodies had been transported, because they were the needy bodies abandoned at the morgue of the Kinshasa General Hospital. The rapid procedure and the lack of very precise information fuel the controversy. Part of the opposition and civil society organizations go so far as to think that these bodies that were laid in this mass grave are those of demonstrators killed during the demonstrations last January, in reaction to the desire to amend the Constitution. Minister, can you give us the latest information you have received about this? You and the EU have asked for an independent and credible investigation. What is it to date?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic221x.u118	Mr President, I will answer the three different questions. During a meeting, at the end of March, with a number of ambassadors, including the Belgian Ambassador, the Minister of Justice, Alexis Thambwe, spoke spontaneously with NGOs and the Bureau Conjoint des Nations unies aux Droits de l'Homme about the existence of a mass grave in Maluku. He told the ambassadors that he had immediately requested an investigation. A few days later, early April, the existence of the mass grave was confirmed. According to the government, it is a routine burial of unidentified or unclaimed bodies and stillborn fetuses. In view of the disappearances and the arrests in January concerning the electoral law and in March following a meeting organized by young people from Filimba, the description as routine burial immediately raised questions. On April 8, I published a press release in which I wrote that the discovery of the mass grave raised many questions. I added that the Congolese people and the international community are entitled to an answer. I asked that an independent investigation be launched immediately to bring the truth to light. I added that it is important that the site is closed properly to avoid evidence and traces disappearing. In support of the authorities' assertions on the identity of the buried persons, they provided a statistical table of burials carried out since June 2014. The report, dated 3 April 2015, signed by the director acting as the central morgue in Kinshasa, indicates that 421 bodies had been buried in Maluku on the night of 19 March 2015, including 23 abandoned bodies, 34 indigent, 64 unidentified bodies, and 300 stillborn or unborn children. The investigation was entrusted to the Attorney-General of the Republic, who assessed whether or not to order the exhumation of the bodies with a view to their identification, as the United Nations Office for Human Rights was prepared to assist the judicial authorities. To date, the exhumation order has not been issued. Despite repeated requests from the international community, the opposition and NGOs, as well as the offers of services from the United Nations office, I am pessimistic that the exhumation to put an end to the various rumours and rumours can be ordered, as the Congolese authorities are increasingly shirking on this issue, as in others, behind the principle of sovereignty to justify the fact that they must not accede to it. At this stage, therefore, it is not possible to say who was buried, so whether or not to establish a certain connection, with people whose families would no longer have news since the events of January 2015. Regarding the situation of missing opposition members and other opponents, the EU is consulted with like minded ambassadors in Kinshasa to exchange information and coordinate initiatives. Without giving the names of those persons, there are different types of cases, including opponents who are still detained by the Agence nationale de Renseignementenmenten without formal accusations, opponents who are in preventive detention and opponents for whom there is a risk of their trial being manipulated. Our embassy and my services, of course, follow the issue closely. We will continue to monitor the situation on the ground.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic221x.u119	Minister, it's 6:59 p.m. now. I was told you'd stay until 7:00. To a number of fellow Members who had questions on the agenda, I said that you would stay until 19:00.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic221x.u120	(...) I can answer a few more questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic221x.u121	All right, then we'll continue our work.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic221x.u122	Mr President, Minister, according to a study published in 2012 in the United States, 94 of the 198 countries in the world, or 47 per cent of the states, have a law punishing blasphemy, apostasy or defamation of religions. Of these, eight countries of the European Union (Germany, Denmark, Greece, Ireland, Italy, Malta, the Netherlands and Poland) would have laws punishing blasphemy, i.e. insult or criticism of dogmas or religious symbols, despite the very weak application of such legislation within them. In practice, many countries, particularly the European Union, apply such laws only in a context of proven discrimination against a community or group of individuals on religious grounds. The penalty is for an offence against individuals, not an offence against beliefs or dogmas. Greece would be the only one to apply the offence of blasphemy as such. Defamation of religions is included in the laws of 24 of the 28 Member States of the European Union, with Italy retaining only blasphemy and Estonia, while Bulgaria and Cyprus have no laws in this area. This question, of course, also arises across European borders, since no less than 20 countries punish, sometimes by death, attacks on religions. I would like to recall that, for our party, the attack on individuals and the discrimination of a religious group are inadmissible. Mr Minister, under the Belgian Presidency of the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe, and under the European Charter on Human Rights and its provisions on freedom of expression, is this issue of blasphemy, apostasy or defamation of religions and related legislation in certain Member States addressed? What is Belgium's position on this matter? Is the strict distinction between infringement of beliefs, ideas or dogmas on the one hand and infringement of persons on the other hand applied in all legal processes in this field, particularly at the level of the European Court of Human Rights? Finally, beyond European borders, what priorities do you give to the principles of freedom of expression in the action of Belgian diplomacy? Has this issue been systematically addressed in your bilateral meetings, including in countries with the most repressive legislatures in this area?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic221x.u123	Mr President, Mr Blanchart, the issue of blasphemy, apostasy or defamation of religions has not been explicitly addressed in the Belgian Presidency of the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe. Of course, the strict distinction between attacks on beliefs, ideas or dogmas on the one hand and attacks on persons on the other is applied by the European Court of Human Rights. The Court's case law is very clear in this respect. In this regard, Belgium endorses the position of the European Union, which adopted guidelines on the promotion and protection of freedom of religion or belief in 2013 and on online and offline freedom of expression in 2014. The latter guidelines confirm that freedom of opinion and freedom of expression are a fundamental right of every human being. Freedom of expression and freedom of opinion are essential for the realization and exercise of many other human rights, including freedom of religion or belief. blasphemy laws are defined as laws that criminalize blasphemy and limit freedom of expression in relation to religious or other beliefs. The European Union recommends decriminalizing these offences and strongly opposes the use of the death penalty, corporal punishment or deprivation of liberty to punish blasphemy. In the guidelines on the promotion and protection of freedom of religion or belief, the Union focuses not only on the right of persons to believe but also on the right of persons not to believe and freely to manifest their beliefs, individually or in common. Freedom of expression, of which freedom of the press is a priority in the work of Belgian diplomacy. I can confirm that this issue is systematically addressed in bilateral meetings, particularly in countries or with the representative of countries with the most repressive legislation in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic221x.u124	Nevertheless, we must note that there is still a lot to be done in this area, including in Europe. It is difficult, when we have not yet resolved these problems of freedom of expression, to plead outside and on other continents the values of defence of freedom of expression.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic221x.u125	Mr. President, Minister, the Shebab, affiliated with AI-Qaeda, stormed the campus of the University of Garissa on April 2, massacring 148 people, including 142 students, with an unnamed barbarity. This attack, the most deadly attack on Kenyan soil since the one perpetrated by AI-Qaeda against the United States Embassy in 1998 and its 213 deaths, was carried out in retaliation for the Kenyan military presence in Somalia as part of AMISOM. This horrific event, with little media coverage, is in addition to a series of deadly raids along the border with Somalia, in Mombasa, the first regional port, and the attack on the Nairobi shopping centre. The Kenyan authorities have reaffirmed their determination to fight the Somali Islamists. Minister, in view of your powers, what action can Belgium take to combat such terrorist organisations and their bloody abuses in this region of the world? What actions have Belgium, the European Union and the international community taken and can they take to help this region of the world in terms of development, diplomacy and military? What relay do you have on site?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic221x.u126	Mr Blanchart, terrorism is unfortunately a global scourge and the terrorist attack by Somali Islamists on the university in Garissa at the beginning of April 2015 has unfortunately confirmed this. This barbaric and cowardly act shocked us all deeply, cost the lives of nearly 150 people and injured many others. I immediately offered my condolences to the families of the victims and to the people of Kenya. Belgium, together with the European Union, stands alongside Kenya and the region in the fight against terrorism, extremism and the stabilization of Somalia. Belgium's commitment was reaffirmed at the Somalia conference held in Brussels on 16 September 2013. In this region, Belgium is participating with its European partners in the long and difficult reconstruction of Somalia within a European and international framework, The New Deal Compact for Somalia. Through the European Union, Belgium is providing development assistance and supporting AMISOM operations, including training Somali soldiers on the European budget, as peace support facilities for Africa. Belgium, within the European Union, therefore supports Kenya in its fight against terrorism and stabilization efforts in Somalia. Following the attack on the University in Garissa, the High Representative of the European Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, Federica Mogherini, reaffirmed her strong commitment to helping the Government and people of Kenya overcome the threat posed by this type of terrorism. If this is to be achieved, it is important for everyone to play their part. The European Union will work to strengthen its support for the country's counter-terrorism efforts. On 7 November 2012, the mandate of AMISOM was extended by the United Nations Security Council for four months (resolution 2073). The civilian component of the mission was strengthened in order to accelerate the transition to civilian management of the reconquered Al-Shabaab territories. The country is still dependent on foreign armed forces to ensure internal order. The defeats of Al-Shabaab and the reconquest of the coastal band to the south weaken the pirate bands, as their refuges on the mainland are taken over from them. Belgium is following closely regional developments and the security situation in Kenya and Somalia is regularly on the agenda of the European Union and the United Nations. Kenya must intensify its fight against terrorism, but also address the root causes of radicalization, including in coastal areas. Belgium welcomes the crucial role played by the European Union Special Envoy for the Horn of Africa, Alexander Rondos. It is trying to contribute to the stabilization of the political situation in Somalia and is accompanying the Kenyan authorities in their efforts to recognize the seriousness of the situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic221x.u127	Mr President, Minister, a few months ago the press reported that some EULEX officials were suspected of touching bribes in order to file files related to organized crime. As a reminder, the EULEX mission is the European Union's largest civilian mission in Kosovo. Today, it has 1,500 employees to investigate the most sensitive cases for local justice. Following the revelations in the Kosovar press, an internal investigation was organized. The latter revealed in particular that the criminal investigation initiated in 2013 should have been carried out as early as 2012 when the first suspicions of corruption were known. Minister, can you give us the information you have about this internal investigation within EULEX? What is the Belgian contribution to EULEX? What lessons can we learn from this experience so that such facts, if proven, do not happen again in the future? More broadly, how are relations with the Kosovo authorities organised within the framework of EULEX? What can be learned from this mission? How can this important mission evolve in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic221x.u128	Mr President, Mr Crusnière, I shall go back to the answers I had given to Mrs Grovonius' almost similar questions at the sitting on 11 May in committee. A distinction should be made between the current internal investigation and the report by Professor Jean-Paul Jacqué entitled Review of the EULEX Kosovo Mission's implementation of the mandate with a particular focus on the handling of the recent allegations. The mandate of this professor was to assess the management of the implementation of the mandate by the EULEX mission and in particular the way in which the mission managed the alleged corruption case. Charges of corruption are the subject of an internal investigation within the mission. These are therefore two different aspects. It is still too early to determine what follow-up will be given to this internal investigation carried out within EULEX, an exercise which is within the competence of the Political and Security Committee. As for Belgium's contribution to this mission, it currently has six persons, one magistrate and five experts in various fields. The Federal Police are no longer present, pending the possible selection by the European Union of applications in response to a recent call for contributions. In the past, participation was much more substantial. Between the end of 2008 and the end of 2013, Belgium ensured an average participation of 25 people, including some 20 police officers, one or two magistrates and a few experts seconded by the SPF Foreign Affairs. The reduction in Belgian participation is the result of the fundamental revision of the mandate and structure of the mission in 2013, i.e. the abolition of the executive role of its police component in favour of the judicial component of the mandate. Relations with the Kosovo authorities of the mission are of a technical and operational nature under the local control of the European Union Special Representative and under the control of the High Representative. The implementation of the mandate of the EULEX Kosovo mission should be assessed on the basis of the priorities and situation of the rule of law on the ground. The future of the mission must be analysed in a diplomatic context taking into account all the parameters used by the European Union. We'll have an opportunity to get back to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic221x.u129	Minister, thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic221x.u130	Mr President, Minister, in April the European Commission authorised the import and marketing of 17 GMOs for human or animal feed and two genetically modified flowers. Eleven of the nineteen GMOs are produced by the multinational Monsanto, while the remaining eight come from the US firm Dupont and German groups Bayer and BASF. Member States have the official right to refuse them, but in practice a national ban seems to be very difficult to implement. Beyond this worrying decision, my group is concerned that, in the longer term, this is in fact only a premise or even a pledge given to the United States in the ongoing TTIP negotiations. While the Americans are in fact officially disappointed with the possibility that Member States may refuse GMOs on their territory, this Commission decision strangely recalls the technique of the Trojan horse used by US negotiators under the TTIP transatlantic treaty. Mr Minister, I would therefore like to ask you the following questions. In the TTlP negotiations, what position do you stand on the highly controversial issue of GMOs and more broadly on agri-food standards? In the negotiating mandate, what about it? Do you find that this mandate contains sufficient agri-food guarantees for consumer protection, for the composition and origin of products, but also for the protection of our producers, our farmers against multinationals such as Monsanto? Does this new authorisation of GMOs on European soil not, in your opinion, illustrate the fragility of maintaining European environmental and agri-food standards, as well as consumer rights?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic221x.u131	Mr President, Mrs Grovonius, with regard to the authorisation of the importation into the European Union of seventeen GMOs for animal or human consumption, I would like first of all to point out that seven of the seventeen authorisations consist of renewals for GMOs already authorised. There are therefore ten new authorised GMOs. These authorisations granted by the Commission on 24 April were granted in accordance with the legislation in force in the European Union. In view of the favourable opinions of the European Food Safety Authority and in the absence of a qualified majority of Member States in favour or against authorisations, the Commission has taken the authorisation decisions alone. These authorisations were issued only after a thorough assessment by the European Authority, which concluded that these GMOs pose no danger to animal and human health or the environment. There has been no change in the legislation. We cannot therefore speak of a weakening of European environmental and agri-food standards. As far as consumer law is concerned, current legislation imposes strict labelling and traceability rules for GMOs in order to ensure that consumers are properly informed. It is therefore a question of the application of the legislation in force in the European Union and this decision taken by the Commission is quite separate from the negotiations of the Transatlantic Treaty. The issue of GMOs is also excluded from these negotiations. I concede that the coincidence of the respective agendas of these two subjects can always be confusing, but let it be clear: these are two completely separate agendas. There is, on the one hand, the application of existing European legislation and, on the other hand, a negotiation on a draft future agreement that does not deal with the issue of GMOs. As regards the Belgian position on GMOs and agri-food standards in the context of these TTIP negotiations, as I have just mentioned, the issue of GMOs is excluded from the negotiations. The European Union has an autonomous system for deciding whether or not to allow the import of a GMO into the European Union and this system is not open to trade negotiations. With regard to agri-food standards, Belgium considers that the production patterns and standards of the European Union (human and animal health protection standards, environmental and animal welfare standards) must be respected and cannot be called into question by international agreements. It is essential to avoid products that do not meet our standards being marketed in the European Union. The mandate and the initial negotiating texts proposed by the European Union contain sufficient guarantees of the right of the parties to regulate according to the level of protection of health, consumer safety, workers' safety and the environment, at a level which the European Union considers appropriate. It should be noted that the precautionary principle is guaranteed. In addition, the legislation explicitly provides that legislation relating to consumer protection or environmental protection will not be affected. In short, products imported into Europe must and must meet the EU's environmental, consumer, health and safety requirements for people, animals and plants.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic221x.u132	Ladies and gentlemen, we have arrived at item 31, Questions Nos 4025, 4108, 4236, 4294 and 5376. I propose that we postpone this point. I was told that we would stop at 7:00 p.m. and I told Mr De Roover at 6:45 p.m. that he was free to leave because that question would no longer be addressed. Mr Flahaux also said at 6 p.m. 15 that the combined questions on agenda item 36, Nos 4344 by Mr Luykx, 4368 by Mr Blanchart and 4501 by Mr Flahaux would not be discussed. I do not want to deal with them today either, because I do not want my fellow Members to think that I have led them to believe that they do not want to give them the opportunity to ask their question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic221x.u133	Minister Viktor Orban, the Hungarian Prime Minister, is pursuing a policy that is often criticized for its potential violations of fundamental rights and its violations of freedom of expression. He has just taken an additional step by relaunching the debate on the death penalty, following the murder of a shopkeeper, and by advocating, at the end of the Brussels summit on the dramas in the Mediterranean, a popular consultation with a view to tightening national legislation on refugees. We are far from the European values which are supposed to be the driving force behind the policies of the twenty-eight! Rather, we are witnessing, in a certain indifference, an escalation towards intolerable positions that we all, as democrats, must firmly reject. How do you explain that the bodies of the European Union, whatever they may be, pass this situation in silence and allow the Orban government to sink deeper and deeper into a policy of liberticide? At the end of the twenty-eight summit last week, the President of the European Council reaffirmed the Union's total opposition to the death penalty. Should this message, addressed to Indonesians, not be given the same voice within the European Union itself, particularly in the light of the European Convention on Human Rights? In this context, what is Belgium's position? In your opinion, what measures should be taken to counter these potentially dangerous drifts by a Member State? Have you had any contacts on this subject with the Hungarian authorities, particularly in the framework of our Presidency of the Council of Europe?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic221x.u134	Mr Blanchart, respect for the right to life and the abolition of the death penalty are obviously essential principles on which we cannot compromise. The position of the European institutions is unambiguous in this respect. European Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker recalled that the Charter of Fundamental Rights prohibits the death penalty. He added that if the Hungarian government's intention was to reintroduce it, he should, in his words, expect a battle with the European institutions. We fully support this position. It is also wrong to state that the Union has remained unresponsive to the situation in Hungary. The European Commission has already undertaken a series of actions within the framework of its powers, which have not been without effect. The Hungarian government has thus abandoned a series of constitutional amendments which the European Commission has found incompatible with EU law. Council of Europe Commissioner for Human Rights Niels Muižnieks recalled that the reintroduction of the death penalty would obviously be incompatible with Hungary's obligations, which had ratified Protocols 6 and 13 to the European Convention on Human Rights, which provided for the prohibition of the death penalty in time of peace and war. I also fully endorse this view, which we will have to continue the debate by supporting the positions adopted by both the institutions of the European Union and the Council of Europe.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic221x.u135	Thank you for your answers, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic221x.u136	Mr Minister, on 4 May, a coalition of Belgian civil society organisations composed of trade unions, mutualities, consumer organisations, NGOs, both French-speaking and Dutch-speaking expressed their opposition to the transatlantic treaties, both to TTIP and to CETA in their present form, with a clear message. 1° The TTIP negotiations cannot continue on the basis of the current mandate, and could only resume on the basis of a completely different mandate and of a different way of doing things, in particular by excluding the controversial arbitration clause. 2° They asked you for a profoundly democratic process: true transparency and a real public debate must take place in Belgium on these treaties. 3° A clear first political gesture: a clear "no" at CETA. Mr Minister, I would therefore like to ask you about this request from civil society. Could I ask what you have responded to this coalition regarding the 3 points above? What did you tell them about our country's position? Following this unprecedented mobilisation in terms of the representativeness of civil society, could Belgium's position within the Council evolve as part of the follow-up to the negotiations on the transatlantic treaties? If so, on what specific points?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic221x.u137	Minister, of course there has been a decision today on the subject in the European Parliament. Nevertheless, I would like to ask you what the calendar is at European and intra-Belgian level for TTIP. What economic sectors and activities could be lost in Belgium at TTIP? So I am actually asking for a risk analysis of strengths and weaknesses of our economy in a far-reaching trade agreement with the US such as TTIP. The US and Australia concluded a free trade agreement in 2004 without an ISDS clause. Why would TTIP without ISDS be impossible by definition? What additional amendments to ISDS does Belgium still advocate to the Commission and the Council? How will the notions of fair and equitable treatment, indirect expropriation and legitimate expectations be defined in the clause so that they cannot be abused by investors? Is the Commission going to go far enough in this respect? I do not know to what extent you have been able to incorporate the latest information from today into your reply. At least I'm looking forward to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic221x.u138	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as regards the establishment of a new negotiating mandate, this mandate includes the guidelines which the governments of the 28 Member States of the European Union, meeting within the Council, have provided to the European Commission. Belgium formulated a number of red lines to the European Commission from the outset of the negotiations and before the mandate was granted, taking into account the concerns of Belgian actors, including civil society. These red lines were included in the mandate of negotiations granted to the Commission under the previous government. Belgium will continue to pay close attention to their defence. As far as the question of suspension of negotiations is concerned, it is not relevant. It would be inappropriate to prejudge the outcome of a negotiation without having completed it. As far as the agenda is concerned, there are, of course, the target dates set by the European Council for concluding the negotiations. Internal Belgian coordinations are organised on a regular basis, almost weekly. Of course, coordination can be added according to the course of the negotiations. The 10th round of negotiations will take place in Brussels from 13 to 17 July 2015. Many areas of negotiation will be discussed during this round, with the exception of the part of investment, which has been frozen until the EU has defined its position. The main item on the agenda is the exchange of the revised proposal on services. As far as risk assessment is concerned, the FPS Economy is currently working on the TTIP impact analysis for Belgium. Following an initial survey of the federations, the Communities and the Regions, there are regular contacts with the federations of the different sectors, but also with other civil society actors. I hope to be able to refine the Belgian offensive and defensive interests once the results of the impact analysis are known. As regards the inclusion of an ISDS clause in the TTIP, at the General Affairs Council on 7 May I relayed the reservations expressed within civil society at the various levels of Belgian power. Belgium welcomed the European Commission's ideas on structural reform of the arbitration system. The protection of the right of States to regulate and to transparency are key elements. With regard to the link between national courts and international arbitration, I stressed that priority should be given to the former. Belgium is also in favour of the possibility of multilateral recourse. It goes without saying that we must go further in our thinking. In this sense, Belgium is following with great interest the ongoing debate in the European Parliament. As you know, the vote on his motion for a resolution was scheduled for today. I even think it just happened. The fact that the US and Australia do not include ISDS provisions in their free trade agreement is an interesting fact. The question is whether ISDS will be part of the Trans-Pacific Partnership, the Free Trade Agreement currently under negotiation between Australia, Brunei, Canada, Chile, Japan, Malaysia, Mexico, New Zealand, Peru, Singapore, the US and Vietnam. As pointed out earlier in this House, I and the European Commission attach great importance to transparency. To this end, I have had several meetings with civil society, and on various occasions I have provided you with an overview of the negotiations. I have also answered specific questions on more sensitive issues. The European Commission has also made considerable efforts to ensure transparency. It shall regularly inform and consult the European Parliament and the Council on the progress of the negotiations. In addition, the Commission frequently organises meetings with business and civil society. It also disseminates information via its website. Commissioner Malmström intends to continue these efforts. At the end of the negotiations, it will be up to the Member States and the European Parliament to approve or reject the agreement. Under European legislation, trade agreements such as TTIP can only be ratified if they are ratified by the 28 Member States of the European Union after receiving the consent of the European Parliament. The European Union's trade agreements are therefore subject to a dual democratic guarantee. The negotiations on CETA are over. A legal and linguistic review of the text is currently under way. Once the text is translated into all the official languages of the European Union, the European Commission will submit the text to the European Council and Parliament for approval. If the Council decides that this is a joint agreement, the ratification procedure at the level of the national parliaments of the Member States will be launched. This agreement was negotiated by the European Commission on the basis of a mandate approved by Belgium under the previous government. This negotiating mandate provided for the inclusion of an ISDS clause in the agreement. The ISDS mechanism included in CETA is a mechanism that is very progressive compared to the previously adopted system. The provisions were drafted in such a way as to strike a balance between the right to regulate States and the protection of investors. They also ensure transparency and prevent conflicts of interest. This was also important to Canada. The general reform of the ISDS system initiated by the European Commission is part of and is based on improvements and innovations developed in CETA. It also provides for even more comprehensive solutions in the medium and long term. Ideally, the public consultation on ISDS should have taken place prior to the conclusion of CETA, but at the time of negotiations with Canada, there was not yet a discussion on ISDS. The outcome of the discussion on ISDS in TTIP should now be seen. The European Commission will then examine what should be done in the context of the language and legal review of CETA. In CETA, provisions such as fair and equitable treatment and indirect expropriation are given a clear definition to guide the arbitrators in their interpretation. For example, the fair and equitable treatment clause was limited to a closed list setting a clear standard of conduct, such as in the case of arbitrariness and a lack of a fair trial. The Commission also wants to ensure the right of the State to lay down rules for the achievement of legitimate objectives. If a State wishes to protect the public interest in a non-discriminatory manner, the State's right to adopt policies will prevail over the economic impact of these measures on the investor. The agreements which have already entered into force, the ratified agreements and the agreements which have been signed will be adapted to the article on the transfer clause, which is not in conformity with European rules and is explicitly requested by the European Commission to the Member States. Discussions on agreements already under negotiation or still to be negotiated will take place on the basis of a new model text of the Belgian-Luxembourg Economic Union bilateral investment agreement. The working group on the bilateral investment agreement is currently examining the adaptation of the BLEU BIT model text. All possible amendments to the text will be considered. When a compromise is reached on a new version of the text, it will be submitted to Parliament. With regard to your more specific question on the glass and steel sectors, Belgian imports of glass from the United States amounted to €83.8 million in 2014, while Belgian exports of glass to the United States amounted to €53 million. Belgian imports of iron and steel from the United States amounted to EUR 176.7 million in 2014, while Belgian exports to the United States amounted to EUR 288.6 million. Belgian imports of iron and steel products from the United States accounted for EUR 99.4 million in 2014. Conversely, in the same year, Belgian exports of iron and steel products to the United States amounted to EUR 107.5 million. At this stage of the negotiations, there is no specific proposal for these sectors. I would remind you, however, that steel and steel products are highly protected in the United States. Several US anti-dumping orders now affect the European Union. The Belgian glass industry is mainly specialised in the production of flat glass used in the construction sector (doors, windows, frames) and in the automotive sector. The flat glass sector accounts for more than 70% of total glass production. Belgium is the first European manufacturer in the field of exports, for a total of EUR 1 109 000 000 and the second in terms of tonnage. The Belgian steel industry can benefit from its excellent geographical location. The wide range of steel products, product quality and delivery times are also strong points for Belgian steel companies. Companies have state-of-the-art technologies and research and development resources. Belgium consistently advocates a European re-industrialisation policy. Through its trade agreements, the European Union is trying to boost the competitiveness of European industry on the world market and attract investment. Finally, as regards the agriculture sector in particular, the European Union has become a major exporter in the agricultural sector to the world. According to Eurostat data, in 2013 the value of these exports to the rest of the world was EUR 120 billion with a broadly positive trade balance of just over EUR 18 billion. The agricultural sector is also important in trade relations with the United States. In 2013, the US was the EU's largest export market for agricultural products by absorbing 12.8%, equivalent to a value of EUR 15 billion with a positive balance of EUR 5.6 billion. The European Union's trade balance with the United States for the agricultural sector has been positive for several years. For more detailed information, the European Commission recently published on its website a document containing Eurostat statistics on trade between the United States and the European Union for the agricultural sector. As regards the impact of a free trade agreement on the agricultural sector, before starting negotiations, the European Commission commissioned an economic impact assessment. This analysis included the agricultural and forestry sectors. It is also available on the Commission's website. The US market represents agricultural export opportunities for the European Union and Belgium. The TTIP suggests the removal of barriers to exports of agricultural products to the United States, particularly in the agri-food sector, which is important for Belgium, for example the lifting of the embargo on the import of ruminant meat from the European Union since 1997. On the other hand, although US tariffs are not very high on average, there are still tariff peaks for some agricultural products. This is the case, for example, for milk and milk products, as well as for certain fruit and vegetables. Given the importance of our agricultural exports to the United States, reducing these barriers and tariff peaks, which are objectives pursued by the TTIP, will only benefit Belgium and the European Union. Finally, TTIP will have no impact on the cultivation of GMOs in the European Union. Indeed, the issue of GMOs is excluded from the negotiations and the Union has a fully applicable legal framework to decide whether or not to authorise the cultivation of a GMO throughout the European Union. This legal framework is not open to trade negotiations. Moreover, as you mentioned in April 2015, this legal framework of the European Union has recently been strengthened by an amendment to Directive 2001/18/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council, which now gives Member States the opportunity to restrict or prohibit the cultivation of GMOs in their national territory. I would point out that we will continue to hold a number of meetings with the various actors of civil society to inform the progress of the negotiations and to continue the dialogue. As I said, we will take account in our assessment of the votes cast by the various groups in the European Parliament, since the resolution has just been voted by 436 yes against 241 no. But I assume that every political party will have the opportunity to put these national and international positions in order in the hours and days ahead.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic221x.u139	At 7:00 p.m., we said that we would continue for half an hour. In the meantime, it's 7:40. I suggest we leave it at that. We have included Question No 5, by Mr von der Vring, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, and on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, and on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. 4275 by Mr Claerhout, who was converted into a written question, dealt with 75 questions today, Minister. There's about 35 of them left. We have also been asked to hold a debate on Burundi. I would like to ask you whether we can hold another meeting next week in which both Burundi and the remaining questions will be dealt with. In this way anyone with a finished agenda can enter the recess. Minister, I will ask the secretariat to contact your staff to find a date. I believe that four to four and a half hours of meetings should be enough to complete everything.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic221x.u140	Mr President, I would just like to stress once again that we could try to retain the main points – everyone will appreciate it – because it is still possible to turn certain questions into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic221x.u141	You have the right to ask that question. It is up to my fellow Members to decide whether they wish to give a positive answer. So hopefully we will see each other again next week, in such a way that we can finish our work.
