ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic235x.u1	Colleagues, with Minister Borsus, we will discuss issues related to our agricultural sector. First of all, I would like to say a word about the order of business. We had postponed the possible organisation of hearings of actors from the agricultural world. This item will be discussed at the end of this exchange of views. This morning, some colleagues asked me to put on the agenda requests for hearings in the energy field as well as proposals for legislation from the various groups. I propose that the agenda for Thursday at 2 p.m. include the agenda item after item 3. The exchange of views on the release will begin in the morning and stop at 12.30 p.m. and resume at 2 p.m. if necessary. After the points I have just mentioned, there will be a series of questions to Mrs Marghem, which will deal with energy. Mr Minister, we saw each other at the end of August, before the European summits of 7 September and mid-September, in which you participated. There was talk of the crisis in milk and pigmeat, particularly in the Belgian agricultural sector. We decided to organise a debriefing in this regard. No rapporteur has been appointed, but our work will be fully reported.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic235x.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to apologize for my delay. I could not join you earlier because I was present at the Conference of Presidents, hence the timing on which we agreed that I would be present at 11.25 a.m. in your committee. I would like to have the opportunity to take stock of the two agricultural councils mentioned by the President, but also to listen to a number of comments. On the other hand, if we focus today on milk and the problem of pigmeat, I will also briefly address the issue of sugar or the beef market. On 31 August, I was already expressing my great concern about the continuing decline and flexibility in the prices of milk and pigmeat, which are reaching levels that are totally below the thresholds of profitability and which create serious difficulties for our farmers. Despite the details of the plan announced by the European Commission at the end of the European Council of Ministers on 15 September, including the 500 million euros of aid and support mentioned, my concern and vigilance remain. Taking into account the alarming crisis faced, inter alia, by the milk and pigmeat sector but also by the beef sector in a structural way, I am convinced that it is necessary not only to monitor closely the evolution of the markets, but also, and above all, to act and avoid the consequences of the poor functioning of the markets. I am using this new committee meeting to answer the oral questions put by Mr Gilkinet, Mrs Dierick and Mrs Gantois. As a reminder, the fall in prices has occurred following the Russian embargo on imports of many agri-food products from the European Union, the fall in demand on some world markets, notably China, and other factors. It affects the producers of meat and milk, as well as fruit and vegetables, in many countries of the European Union. As regards the Commission's Action Plan, at the Agriculture Council of 15 September 2015, devoted exclusively to the evolution of markets, the European Commission presented the EUR 500 million aid programme announced on 7 September to the agricultural sectors in crisis. The Commission immediately understood that these funds will not be taken out of the crisis reserve established for the 2015 budget for an amount of EUR 433 million. As you may know, the crisis reserve was built up with a levy of about 1.4 % on direct payments from the CAP. For example, the amounts not used at the end of the year will be repaid to farmers the following year. Consequently, this 500 million is not part of the funds expected to be distributed among farmers in the event of non-use. Commissioner Katainen, who replaced the hospitalised Commissioner Hogan, stated on 7 September that this package will be taken from the existing margins in the 2016 CAP budget, even though this has not yet been validated by the budgetary authorities. These margins are partly made up of the funds of the budget from the super levy on milk. The measures presented by the European Commission are centred around three axes. Firstly, to find a response to farmers' cash problems. Secondly, the markets are stabilising. Thirdly, improving the functioning and relations between the actors in the food supply chain. Targeted support amounts to EUR 420 million. Of the 500 million package, 420 million will be paid directly to the Member States through national envelopes. The distribution key for the 420 million euros between Member States is as follows: 80% is distributed according to the milk quotas for 2014-2015; the remaining 20% is allocated on the basis of different criteria, namely the difference between the national milk price and the European average, the impact of the Russian embargo on agri-food products in the European Union, the decrease in pigmeat prices and the impact of the drought last summer. In this context, Belgium has received an envelope of EUR 13.05 million which the Regions have divided among themselves: EUR 8.235 million for Flanders and EUR 4.815 million for Wallonia, defined on the basis of criteria by the European Commission. Consultations shall be held between the agricultural organizations and the regional authorities with a view to making the best possible use of the funds. The flexibility in the granting of aid at national level was a question raised by the Member States, including Belgium. They are best positioned to identify and allocate their funds to those sectors that are most economically affected. The balance of the package, the remaining EUR 80 million, is divided into market support measures, including EUR 30 million for promotion in general, EUR 30 million for humanitarian aid to refugees and a new operative part for the private storage of milk powder, cheese and pigmeat. At the Council meeting on 7 September, half of the Member States, including Belgium, asked the Commission to raise the intervention threshold, which may even be provisional. The threshold corresponds to the fixed price at which the European Union buys butter and skimmed milk powder. Subsequently, stocks are resold on the market by the Commission. However, Commissioner Hogan, followed by the Netherlands, the United Kingdom and Denmark, maintained his position and under no circumstances considered that increase. According to him, the increase in the intervention threshold would not be the right answer to the market and would only be a short-term solution, which would not lead operators to reduce their production. The President-in-Office of the Council, Mr Etgen, also stressed that differences in production costs between Member States make it difficult to determine an efficient price level and that we must avoid the effects of bargains. However, I remain convinced that an increase would give a positive signal to the national and international markets, for which the intervention price is a reference price. The Commission considers that the private storage programmes are the best response to the market, which in my view remains to be demonstrated, given that the previous programmes have not had a positive impact on the milk and pigmeat markets. In this respect, a new adapted storage programme will be set up for the private storage of skimmed milk powder. Support for private storage of milk powder will be increased from 16 cents in the current programme to 36 cents per day and per tonne. The storage period will be extended to 12 months, compared to the current period ranging between three and seven months depending on the regime. Operators will, if they find buyers for their stocks, have the opportunity to sell them from nine months on, with a fine. The Commission wants hundreds of thousands of tonnes of milk powder or about 10% of European production, i.e. from the exported part, to be withdrawn from the market. The necessary support would be around €13 million. In addition, the private storage of cheese would cover around 100 000 tonnes, with volumes allocated to each Member State. A flat-rate aid of €15.57 per tonne plus an aid of €40 per day and per tonne will be granted. I will, of course, deliver all the figures to the committee. Not all countries will benefit from this measure, which will allow the unused quantities to be redistributed after three months between those countries which have made the best use of the system. The private storage aid programme for pigmeat will also be restarted in December. As a reminder, this year's private storage was activated a first time between March 2015 and the end of April 2015. This allowed 60 000 tonnes of pigmeat to be withdrawn from the market and EUR 17 million was spent in support of this temporary measure. The special features of the new programme provide for an increase in aid and the extension of meat to the fifth quarter, the part containing the bacon. According to the Commission, this type of aid will allow for a reduction in the short-term impact of overproduction on the European market. The Commissioner also announced that an additional €30 million will be allocated to the 2016 milk and pork promotion campaign, essentially aimed at third countries. This budgetary supplement will bring the promotion programme to a total amount of EUR 111 million for the conquest of new markets and for the sale of our European products. In addition, some EUR 30 million will be allocated to a programme to ensure the distribution of European milk to refugees. This money will allow various charities working with the European Commission's Humanitarian Aid and Civil Protection Service to cope with the refugee crisis. Many observers noted that the balance of the funds seemed very limited to cover three private storage programmes. The EUR 500 million will be allocated between EUR 420 million for targeted support, EUR 30 million for promotion and EUR 30 million for aid to refugees, leaving a balance of EUR 20 million for private storage. However, Commissioner Hogan stated that the margins will be available for this programme. There are also other measures announced. The Commission has also taken the decision to pay the CAP aid in advance from mid-October, at 70% instead of 50% originally earmarked for the first pillar, and at 85% instead of 75% for the second pillar of the CAP, after the administrative checks have been completed but without waiting for all checks to be carried out on the ground. For example, farmers will receive a cash advance before the end of the year, if the conditions are met. We have called for checks to be relaxed so that this measure can be operational. Following my question and those of other Member States, the Commission has accepted to reopen the dialogue with the Russian Federation with a view to lifting the sanitary embargo on the pieces of pigmeat not covered by the economic embargo, such as bacon and offal. A possible agreement would allow the European Union to export 350 000 tonnes of pigmeat, as was the case in 2013 before the sanitary embargo. At the Agriculture Council on 7 September last, the European Commission stated that it provided for a strengthening of the European Milk Market Observatory. The European Commission ultimately intends to set up a high-level group which will have to consider not only the use of the milk package but also the organisation of the food chain, with the aim of giving producers more weight in the negotiations with their buyers, so that they would no longer be the weak link in this chain. When and how will these measures be introduced? The European Commission wants targeted aid to be distributed to the Member States from mid-October, while the other aid will be activated from the moment it is approved by the various authorities. In technical terms, all these new measures will not only be adopted by the European Commission. Some will be adopted by the European Commission, such as aid for private storage of milk powder and aid for pigmeat, using an implementing act. For the other measures, such as support for the storage of cheese and advances on CAP payments, the European Commission will use the specific authorisations granted by the European Parliament and the Council to adopt delegated acts in the event of a serious disturbance of the market. I also have information on the Belgian position. In view of the Commission's position, and in particular as a result of the role played by the Luxembourg Presidency of the Council, Belgium considered that some of these steps were in the right direction as they represented significant support, they modified storage elements, they responded to requested elements such as the progress of direct aid and they provided a form of rapid support to producers. However, after consultation of the regional ministers, this EUR 500 million plan was considered insufficient by the Belgian delegation because it did not respond to some of its major requests. Indeed, we have called for new structural solutions to be introduced in order to mark up markets, to avoid their extreme volatility, but also to ensure a decent income for agricultural workers. We also included very specific proposals such as raising the threshold for intervention or early slaughter of piglets. These are two examples among others that should allow you to get a clearer idea of the proposals we had made. Finally, we asked the Commission for better monitoring of the markets in difficulty. In our view, the aim of these modernisations is to improve qualitatively the data from the European Milk Market Observatory, taking account in particular of regional variations and production costs in each of the Member States, but also to set up a pig observatory to disseminate reliable and accurate data. This brings me to the establishment of a high-level group to look at the use of the milk package, but also at the organisation of the food chain. I have asked, together with my regional counterparts, that this group bring together, sector by sector, all the stakeholders to reflect on new rules of operation and market beacons. We also requested that this group begin its work as soon as possible and present its conclusions within three months. Furthermore, we would like this group of experts to have an additional task, namely to modernise the European Price Observatory so that it can be a real tool to support market management. Even if we see the efforts made by the Commission, I see that it has a policy that is too oriented, too subject to the markets. I remind you regularly that markets are intended to serve professionals, people, not the other way around. Our farmers, our consumers, our citizens are not meant to serve the markets. Volatility is destructive. I remain convinced that, while integrating a number of mechanisms related to the competitiveness and internationalisation of markets (the fact that we are turned to export), if the possibility of the market having a flange on its neck is not foreseen, it can, at times, be dangerous. It is enough to see the figures of job losses in the agricultural sector in Belgium as in Europe for several years. Regardless of this, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the position of some Member States has gradually evolved. The vast majority of Member States, including Belgium, considered positively as a first step (and only as a first step) what was put on the table by the Commission. But today, a majority of countries around the European Council table are asking for additional measures and consider that these measures are essential to stabilise markets in the agricultural sectors in difficulty and to anticipate a number of future crises through the establishment of these new mechanisms. In this respect, I must inform you that, in the light of this development in a number of countries, we obtained, at the European Council meeting on 16 and 17 November 2015, an overall assessment of the situation and developments in agricultural markets and, above all, an initial assessment of the impact of the Commission's action plan. If the results of these measures are not demonstrated, it is clear to me that Belgium, like other Member States, such as France, will put its proposals on the table with even greater determination. I hope I am wrong, but I fear this scenario is coming. I come to the end of my introductory statement and I would like to answer precisely a number of specific questions on the agenda, including Mr Gilkinet's question about the ban on producers selling their products at a price below their cost of production. I note in this respect that the sale at loss unfortunately does not concern the primary sector, in accordance with the economic law code "Market practices and consumer protection". The introduction of a minimum price for Belgian producers would violate existing regulations and would not be approved by the competition authority. In response to the increased volatility of prices in agricultural markets, I remain of course convinced that, like what we have done in the Belgian chain concertation, we must continue to deepen our thinking on the creation of new models that will allow the fair remuneration of each of the actors in the food chain, from the producer to the distributor. I am also open to any consideration of stabilization funds. In the milk sector in 2014, prices were very high for a limited period of time. I can imagine that we are thinking about stabilization funds that would be fed when prices are very high and which, on the other hand, would come to help when prices are down or very low. I am in favour of new structural tools at European level as well as reforms in production. The chain consultation at Belgian level has been successful and the precise result has been detailed on milk. For the pig result, a number of contacts are still required. I hope it will be announced in the coming weeks. With the expanded Agrofront, the actors (Fevia, Comeos), with the support of my administration and with the support of the SPF Economy to legally regulate compliance with the provisions of the competition and make a number of projections, the chain concertation resulted. On two occasions, we met with Kris Peeters and my regional colleagues in order to make us fully available to them. The agreement, as you know, represents a redistribution of 46 million in the dairy sector and 30 million in the pig sector. In addition, various other means and measures are now under consideration, in addition to what has already been decided, in particular the adaptations and possibilities of free spreading of the payment of social contributions and the total or partial exemption of contributions to the Animal Health Fund for 2015. We also met with my colleague Kris Peeters and, in consultation with Febelfin, all the players in the banking sector, with Agrofront. The meeting resulted in a review by the banking sector of the current difficulty of the agricultural sector. Procedures have been put in place and a contact number has been set up with Febelfin, which farmers in difficulty can use in the context of managing these difficulties. In addition, we are working on new provisions concerning social or fiscal elements. I'll come back to you when they've come to fruition. We are also working to further improve economic relations within the beef production sector, which is a real concern. The last meeting on this issue took place in my office on September 17. The aim is to make the best use of the work of beef producers in order to allow them fair, objective and transparent remuneration. As a result of this meeting, a number of decisions have already been taken in the short term, such as the updating of beef prices and indices. It is a bit technical, but the actors concerned are familiar with this important methodology. These indices are used in particular by the agricultural sector for the renegotiation of prices with the processing and distribution sector. This new study will also include new data, including benchmarking comparisons with processes used in other countries such as France and the Netherlands. Other elements in terms of harmonisation of practices allowing for easier comparison for the producer or additional guarantees for the fair payment of his productions are also envisaged. On the other hand, I would like to point out that in the beef sector, I am also quite prepared to study the establishment of a price stabilisation fund, but I think that we must, as mentioned with the actors in the Food Chain Concertation, first try to set up this scheme for the milk and pigmeat sector. I am convinced that it is important to mobilise all the actors in agriculture and at all levels of policy and consult with a view to achieving strong measures within the framework of everyone's competences. In view of the scale and complexity of the problem, I also think, ladies and gentlemen, that there is not a fully-fledged solution. There's no miracle solution. Of course, that would be known and it would have already been implemented for a long time. On the other hand, it is a set of measures which, I hope, can help the agricultural world not only in the short term but also in the medium and long term. If, as you have observed, I am fully mobilized, determined and combative, I also hope that we, like all those involved in the Food Chain Concertation, will reflect on measures that will also anticipate the difficulties of the future. Finally, with regard to Mrs Gantois, who has asked me a question on the sugar sector, I must point out that the issue of sugar has not been discussed at the two European Councils mentioned since, voluntarily, the milk and pork crisis – the two most acute ones at present – was on the agenda. However, we know that the sugar market is currently experiencing price collapse after the peak of 2013 and 2014. However, Belgian beavers are paid at a minimum price of EUR 26.29 per tonne, depending of course on a number of qualitative elements of the production delivered to the sugar factories. The sector is therefore preparing for the post-quota era, scheduled for October 2017. Concertations are under way at Belgian level but also at European level. A high-level group of experts was set up here to do so. The Belgian sector benefits from undeniable advantages, i.e. efficient companies. In fact, I wanted to go to meet these companies. Last week, I was visiting Tienen, which is obviously one of the key players in the sugar industry at home in Belgium. We therefore have successful companies that have invested and continue to invest in their production tools. We have know-how and knowledge of our producers, which are particularly remarkable. We have an effective research centre and an ideal geographical location. Our land and climate assets are undeniable and our geographical proximity, for example to the port of Antwerp, is interesting. In terms of advantages, the link of consultation and transparency between beet producers and their representative associations, on the one hand, and sugar mills, on the other, is remarkable. The contractual links between beet producers and sugar mills are very strong. Their contracts are linked to planted areas and consultation, upstream work, is very mature in the sugar sector. Nevertheless, it is true that the concerns are important as a result of the price I have just mentioned, but also following the expiry of the quota. I do not intend, in this case, to wait for the situation and to put it on the agenda of our concerns or those of the European authorities. When we know how important the volume of exports of our sugar production is, it is necessary to support, in consultation with the Regions, all efforts to be able to identify new markets in order to increase their number and diversify them. We are fortunate to have economic operators and companies who are very professional in this area. In my field of expertise, despite the difficult budgetary context, I have been able to almost double the AFSCA teams that are dedicated to exports. On the other hand, the need to pursue certain niche markets, such as bioethanol obtained from sugar, seems to me to be a priority. I also intend to include on the European agenda, together with other countries, the prior management of the exit from the quota era. Ladies and gentlemen, you'll forgive me for being a little long. Of course, there is a lot of production and only one of these cases, whether it be pigmeat, milk, beef or sugar, could justify a full day's work. I still have to tell you something about the export of pigs. He's very recent. Indeed, this weekend, the competent Chinese authorities approved new Belgian companies for export to China. This is the result of intense negotiations, but also of a visit I made to China, accompanied by the FEBEV (Belgian Meat Federation). Whether it is pork meat or other products that we process, the market for large-scale exports or local exports is crucial. You see, my speech is nuanced, Mr. President. When the market derails, I am the first to intervene as a gendarmerie at the side of the road; but when it serves our productions, I am the first worker in the hold to contribute to the cause. I am at your disposal to talk to you about this exciting, albeit difficult, matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic235x.u3	Thank you very much, Minister, for this information. I was almost going to say, Mr. Constable! Our aim was to have an exchange of views with you after the two European Summits. Our discussion follows on from the debate on 31 August. It seemed useful to me that the members of the committee could hear you, with all the nuances you have brought. However, not all issues have been resolved. I have no doubt that members have comments or questions to ask. I will take note of the colleagues who wish to speak: Mr Gilkinet, Mrs Dierick and Mrs Gantois, Mr de Lamotte and Mr Wilrycx.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic235x.u4	Thank you, Minister, for your very comprehensive explanation. I'll try to pick it up here and there. I had four questions. I keep asking questions. I'm gonna repeat myself in time, too. In general, the European Agriculture Summit was not successful. What remains is still the crisis, which expands and leaps from branch to branch. We have been very focused on milk and pigs. In the meantime, however, the crisis in agriculture is affecting many sectors. In the sugar sector there is the minimum price, which is said to be just cover in 2015. In other words, we are once again faced with a sector that has worked and invested for a whole year, in order to end up without profit and even without wages in 2015. So let us hope that the minimum price is cost-effective. Tienen's sugar factory did not make a profit in 2014. The factory worked with loss and closed the financial year with a negative financial net profit, which does not sound very good. The cattle sector is also in crisis. You have served with Agrofront and the FPS Economy, which is very positive. What has come out of this discussion in a very concrete way? That sector is in a downward spiral. The first five months of 2015 saw a drop in prices of 38%. Minister, I am sure and hear that you are doing a very intensive job. However, I hear, above all, a lot of short-term measures, which actually deal with the biggest financial problems temporarily. I also know that you are looking for and begging for structural solutions. These medium- and long-term structural solutions really need to be put in place. It seems to me very difficult to draw a clear line in Europe between all the member countries. I hope that there will be very concrete initiatives very soon and that market forces will be improved at all relevant levels. What specific initiatives are you taking in the short term, Minister? The recessability of our companies' financial reserves is limited, and I am afraid that elasticity is on the rise in many companies. As far as private storage is concerned, I think we are on the same page. Private storage is a measure that works in the short term, but which ultimately does not offer a solution, unless the products are distributed. These stocks come back on the market sooner or later, and then we are faced with the same problem again. This is certainly not conducive to price-setting. Measures may include the early payment of aid, the cessation of the sanitary embargo and the reopening of dialogue. These are all positive measures, but in the short term I do not see them happening directly. In your speech, on the one hand, you say that the negotiations are moving in the right direction. On the other hand, you are convinced that we are far from there, so that additional meetings will have to be organised. There are massive measures, but I do not see any concrete and direct implementation alongside the financial measures. We cannot ignore the fact that financial measures are being taken. That's how the superlevy flows back. Thanks to the agreement in the chain talks with the actors, money flows into the sector. These are short-term solutions, however, and that is where the problem lies. That is why I would like to hear from you in a very specific way what can be done structuralally as quickly as possible. Is there any consultation with our other governments on exports?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic235x.u5	Thank you, Minister, for your very comprehensive explanation and briefing on the European summit. I agree with you, and perhaps most of you with me, that it was a disappointment. We all had high expectations, but we had to note that the outcome of the European Agriculture Council of 7 September is minimal. There was a short-term measure, which will bring EUR 13 million to our country. As Mrs Gantois said, this is not the structural measure we had hoped for. It is not only in Belgium that the agricultural sector is in trouble. The other Member States are also facing major crises. We had really hoped that Europe would take more action. However, there was a slight glimmer of light from the European Agriculture Council, in the sense that aid would initially only be given to the milk sector, but that this measure was extended to the pig sector. That's just a little light. However, we are satisfied that each Member State can choose how that amount will be spent. We, too, felt it was important that there was flexibility, that each Member State should be able to implement it in its own way. After all, they are best aware of the specific problems. It is the regions that have to decide how the amount of EUR 13 million will be spent. Has this been discussed with the Agriculture Ministers? Is there any clarity about that? You have already made a proportional distribution between Flanders and Wallonia, but have you already been determined to which sectors these funds go? Are they going exclusively to the milk and pig sector or also to other sectors? Were any arrangements made on this? Can other sectors also receive money? After all, other sectors are also in crisis. It was also decided that a special high-level working group would meet. You said that you would like to involve all stakeholders by sector and that this will be done as soon as possible. I can only hope that it will not be a talk barracks and that decisions will be taken effectively. Perhaps you could explain your specific expectations of this working group. What period will they meet? Have any initiatives been taken on the matter? In that context, I would like to have a little more explanation. As you said, the chain talks were a success in our country. They have reached an agreement. One of the important decisions there was that a structural interprofessional stabilisation mechanism would be developed in the medium term. I think this is very important because it will be one of the possible solutions to get out of that crisis. There too, there will need to be a rapid response. It was agreed that this would be established within six months. That was announced in August and it is now early October. The six-month deadline is therefore already in place. Can you clarify whether steps have already been taken to this end? Has there been any progress, or has it just been established that this is going to be done, and has there not been much action for the rest? Minister, you yourself proposed 10 measures in July. There were a lot of good measures, so it might be interesting to get an update on this too. Have any progress been made in this respect? Are there any more concrete effects, such as the label for Belgian origins, the strengthening of the International Relations Service and the supervision of small producers within the BFSA? It would be nice to have a little more explanation about that. I also have a few questions about the explanation you have given. You mentioned EUR 80 million, of which EUR 30 million would go to promotion. That promotion is at European level, but what are you doing in it for me? What does this mean for Belgium, for our farmers and growers? What will it do to them? What positive results can this bring? Do you have eyes on that? Are there any projections of it? For which sectors will promotion take place? What can be the positive result of this? If we already know that there will be no positive result, why do we actually do it? That's why I'd like to get an analysis of that. It is not entirely clear to me how that amount of EUR 30 million will be used specifically for humanitarian aid for refugees. I do not, of course, have anything against that, on the contrary, but can you explain in detail exactly how we are going to proceed? What will this mean in concrete terms? Again, what is the possible positive effect on our farmers? How are we supposed to see this in practice? I can actually agree with your conclusion. I believe that we are all disappointed by the outcome of the European Agriculture Council. We would have expected more structural measures, especially because we need more structural measures, both in the short and long term. That is what we must certainly strive for. There is still a lot of work to be done, but I do not think we have much time left. The water is on the lips of our farmers and for some it is much higher. So they don't have much time left to survive and action really needs to be taken. The question is what we can actually do. We cannot wait for Europe and perhaps we need to put even more pressure on ourselves. I just don't know how we can do this any further. So I look forward to the measures you will take to ease the pain.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic235x.u6	Thank you, Minister, for your detailed explanation and for your efforts over the last few months for our farmers and horticulturalists. When talking to farmers, people are aware that a major crisis is taking place. The most efficient companies or skilled entrepreneurs are starting to get into trouble, and this is not due to their business operations, but to the general malaise in which the sector has fallen. I therefore think it is right that short-term support was given immediately. This concerns targeted aid or promotion for the sector and the resolution of liquidity problems. A healthy company can be healthy in the long term, but if for certain reasons there are liquidity problems, then one has to be able to get over the bridge. I believe that this targeted short-term support is important. More is needed to keep the sector above water in the longer term. There are ways of finding solutions, but that is why these solutions are not available at the moment. I would have liked to have some more information on the various negotiations that will be launched. There are many partners involved: Europe is a partner and there are Belgian and regional partners. Several partners are also involved within the chain. A lot of experts need to be heard. As far as the high-level group is concerned, can you indicate this? What will this instrument look like in concrete terms? Who will be there? Are decisions planned in the short term? We must ensure that this does not become a talk barracks, but that results are focused. I think it is important for the High Level Group to draw up concrete guidelines for the future of agriculture. You have announced that an Inter-Ministerial Conference on Agricultural Policy will be organised on the evolution of markets and on the determination of fair compensation for the sector. Do you also intend to retain the federal label, which has just been quoted by Mrs Dierick, because the regions already use their own label? We must ensure that we do not create more confusion by creating different labels. I believe that this can take place in the consultations. The State-General of Agriculture will involve external experts and the partners in the chain consultations. I think it is important for this committee to be kept informed of the state of play, of what is being discussed in concrete terms and of the long-term planning that can be provided in the short term. The previous speakers have already asked questions about the explanations you have given today. I have two more questions about your statement of August. At that time, you discussed, among other things, a support cell at the food agency for smaller producers, so that they could receive more direct support, and targeted training to meet sanitary standards. Has any progress been made on this guidance cell for smaller producers in the food sector? Last time, you also spoke about a study involving the Minister of Finance on the way in which tax losses are to be dealt with in future in the taxation of agricultural and horticultural workers. Perhaps you could answer those two small questions?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic235x.u7	Minister, I almost crushed a tear when you talked about too much policy, too much subject to the markets. I do not want to be discourteous, but let me tell you that the quality of an answer does not lie in its length. You're not the only one here. However, I have the impression that given the seriousness of the situation in which the agricultural world finds itself, it is somewhat hopeless for the first interested producers and second interested consumers to find that the answers given do not match the stakes and depth of the crisis. Mr Minister, the one shot envelope of EUR 500 million, which is released, represents an intervention per litre of milk of about 0.25 cent. If 150,000 litres of milk are produced for one producer, this amounts to 400 euros for 2015. This amount is totally insufficient.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic235x.u8	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic235x.u9	A total of EUR 500 million represents an intervention of 0.25 cent, corresponding to an intervention of EUR 400 for a production of 150 000 litres of milk. That said, in my view, the question does not lie in the amount of the envelope or in the acceleration of the payment of certain aids which may please but which does not solve the substance of the problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic235x.u10	Mr Gilkinet, I think the minister does not understand your calculation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic235x.u11	In that case, you will tell me, minister, how much it corresponds to the litre produced. Minister, the fundamental problem is overproduction. Gradually, you have to share this observation. In any case, that is my feeling. You said that other countries are beginning to share this view. It is therefore to be hoped that one day a majority of the countries represented at the Agricultural Summits will be able to beat their fists on the table and influence the policy of the Commission and Commissioner Hogan. Your speech contains contradictory elements. You return systematically with the export aid. The Government also does not question trade projects with Canada or the United States, CETA, TTIP. It is precisely, in my view, these policies of the European Commission (supported by the states) of increasing production and opening up to the external markets that lead the agricultural sector into a forward flight. You welcome an agreement that has been signed with China for the export of pigmeat, but what weight do we have in relation to these markets? In the long term, are we Europeans going to be able to compete with countries whose health and quality standards are different from ours? Exports, also says acceptance of imports. Things are happening in the agricultural sector in emerging countries. I'm thinking of a cattle farm in Vietnam with 13,000 cows that won't see daylight as battery-powered chickens. We will not be able to compete with these producers at the price level. On the other hand, we will be able to do so at the level of quality. At this level, the European market is very interesting. It seems to us that trying to solve the problems with more exports, with all the consequences that this can have in terms of the intensification of production and the investment demanded of farmers, can only increase the problems tomorrow. But we will not be strong enough to compete with these countries. We see it today, for example, with New Zealand milk competing with our Belgian production. It seems to us that at European level, but it does not depend on us, we must return to a desire to control the quantity produced in order to be able to pay a fair price to producers and to ensure quality food for consumers. This is not the way of European meetings. I feel that your speech is evolving on this subject, but one of the solutions you are putting forward is export aid. You do not question the TTIP and other international agreements. So I feel a contradiction. Our conviction as ecologists is that the European model of aid for agriculture must be called into question both under the first and second pillars, with intervention ceilings to be fixed and with aid for differentiated quality production which aims primarily to meet the needs of this large market of 500 million people. This is the largest solvent market on the planet. Can we not make sure that we try to organize our agricultural model around this market? That's our conviction. Belgium is only one of the actors in this discussion. You yourself are only the spokesperson of your regional agriculture ministers, but we have the impression, by observing things from the outside and seeing the results of successive summits, that there is no inflection with regard to a flight forward, a course which has been set by the Commission to commit producers to increasing the quantities produced. Mr President, I come back to the proposal I made that this committee should take over the subject and be able to question various interlocutors in such a way that the minister can represent us at the next European meetings. Mr Minister, I have no doubt that you are consulting the sector and that you are in regular contact with it, but this Parliament must give you a mandate to draw the conclusions at European level. The most important sentence of your presentation is that agricultural policy has been too oriented and too subject to the market. What conclusions do we draw at European level? I have the impression that the solutions presented to us contradict the diagnosis that is formulated and that I can share.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic235x.u12	Minister, thank you for your explanatory statement. I would like to return to the situation in the agricultural world. It is in the countryside that our food is produced and that farmers work hard day after day, weaving the kind of social bond, which is increasingly threatened by the impressive European compressor roller. It is important for them to be paid precisely in view of the quality of what they produce for our citizens. Mr Minister, when you came on 31 August, you appeared more optimistic about the European Summit on 7 September. You had put forward a number of ideas and indicated that you were partnering with other countries. Short-term measures have been taken – and they are essential, of course, because they are a bowl of air for many farmers. However, structurally, the crisis persists. We talked about milk, pork, sugar. We fear a cascade effect. My colleagues have mentioned other things. The worker you are must roll up his sleeves and conclude these partnerships with a view to making a paradigm shift at European level. As you said, the main point is that liberal politics or "all in the market" is not the solution. We must indeed review the regulation and be more than a safety net. To return to the measures and amounts you have reported, some measures are issued but are unclear in relation to the situation of everyone. What, in my operation, will I have in relation to the promotion, the aid to refugees, the mechanisms for regulating the market? It's a word you used in your presentation. On a day-to-day basis, for me, a farmer or a farmer, what will that change? You mentioned the establishment of working groups with evaluation in November. A European Council will be held in mid-November. We need to know what we are going to say about what has already been done. Minister, you are the spokesperson for the Regions. You have had this consultation with the Regions. A number of things have been put in place, but we must be convincing and link these partnerships that I have just explained. I would also like to mention a few points. You have "recycled" an announcement that has already been made. Everything about the chain as a whole was already there on 31 August 2015. I wanted to know what went on between August 31 and now. What contacts have been made? What decisions are they made? What actually changes for the farmer on the ground? Between your speech today and that of August 31, there are indeed "copy-paste". I'm not discourteous. That's the reality. The announcement you made about doubling the AFSCA staff had already been made. Does this mean consultation or progress? How? What advice or elements of positive projects can be admitted? So I'm still hungry after your presentation because I'm thinking that's not what's going to change farmers' everyday lives, maybe in the short term, I admit, since you've been talking about $500 million. But farmers were expecting more. For the European Council in mid-November, what are the priorities that will be taken? What partnerships will be created? How are we going to have concrete proposals and in which sectors? We talked about milk, pork, sugar and other things you anticipated. So, minister, there are many expectations for November 17. They are effective and very pressing. What will happen before 12-13 November so that we can actually achieve a result and come back with a reassured agricultural world or at least less disappointed than at the moment?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic235x.u13	Thank you very much, Mr. de Lamotte. Is there still within the groups of other colleagues who wish to speak in the general discussion? No. I would therefore like to take a few considerations as well. First of all, I want to thank you again. It is your role to inform us of the steps taken, the state of the art of the current exchanges. Let us be honest, this is a complex issue, Europe is a rather heavy machine, there are conflicting interests, it is a fact that applies to all politicians in this issue. We had a longer debate on 31 August, so the speeches are probably shorter today and perhaps there are repetitions or, on the contrary, things that are not repeated. I think that what farmers are asking for - and I have had the opportunity to talk with several of them to take the temperature - is not bonuses or aids. If there is one-off aid, they will of course accept it in the majority of cases, but what they are asking for above all is to have a remunerative price for their work and structural responses. There is a reflection on the short term. We've been facing a pretty big price drop. I think that today the price of milk paid to the producer is between 0.25 and 0.26 cents per litre, whereas the price should be 0.37 or 0.38 cents to meet current production costs. There is obviously this demand to have a remunerative price but also above all regulatory and management tools. On this point, we do not feel that there is a positive trend in European meetings. It is rather stagnation, the status quo, when this is the most important point in our debate. What I remember from the debate we had on 31 August is this rather philosophical or political question: do we need more regulation or a lack of regulation? This is not an occasional regulation that would like me to be a policeman one day and let me do everything the next day. That is not the answer the sector is waiting for. We feel that there is an unease about this issue (the quantity of production and the price that pays for the work of our farmers) which I believe is fundamental. I agree with what Mr Gilkinet said about TTIP. Environmental standards and quality of production issues are a concern over the long term. If we let the standards go, as is done in the United States or elsewhere, we will have enormous problems to deal with in the future in terms of quality. The sector is waiting to know when the Stabilisation Fund will be operational and how it will operate. A question has been asked to me by several people at European level: what is the source of the EUR 500 000 envelope? Is this money that has been withdrawn for other types of aid? Is this an additional budget that has emerged or are these other aids to the sector that have been put in an emergency to deal with the milk crisis? This question as to the source of this envelope devoted by the European Union to the current crisis has been asked to me both for milk and for pigs. For pigmeat and milk, the questions are the same. A question was asked about meetings with representatives of banks to deal with immediate financial problems. Meetings have been scheduled. Finally, has a solution been found to provide support for loans and specific problems that may arise in this area? That's what I wanted to say. I would like to make it clear to my colleague, Georges Gilkinet, that the order of business provides for a discussion on the exchange of views with the sector. And on Thursday, we will examine the work of the committee to address other areas.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic235x.u14	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I shall try to touch on the various points. First of all, we will agree that we are facing a crisis situation. This affects the beef and veal sector more or less strongly. It has long been very acute in the pig sector. It has been acute for less time in the milk sector. I am adding fruit and vegetables directly or indirectly affected by the Russian embargo and the situation can still change. In short, I fully agree with your view on the gravity of the situation. In the case of farms, situations vary according to their financial structure. The situation has a more or less rapid impact both in terms of daily cash flow and in terms of farm life. I note that a number of farms where depreciation is achieved, where one is much further in the career, are obviously impacted later. Younger farms are directly affected because investments have been made with short-term deadlines. There is finally a whole series of intermediate situations. I've met people who have a dairy farm and pork, the combination of the two difficulties at the moment. Farms in difficulty are starting to draw a little bit on the payment deadlines of food suppliers, veterinarians. Next comes the bank maturities. As is known, on farms, the period from fall to the end of the year is a period full of repayments. This is often the time when rents are paid, often to Toussaint. It is therefore a crucial time from the point of view of cash flow, hence the importance of trying to take short-term measures on cash flow (I cited them) and with banks. Two meetings are held with the banking sector, Febelfin and with the main banking organisations active in the agricultural sector and the agricultural organisations, with the very clear commitment, in front of Kris Peeters and in front of me, of the banking sector to propose to each individual situation a suitable response from the banking sector and to have a point of contact (which is in place) Crisis Agricultural sector, point of contact at Febelfin. There must also be a permanent monitoring of the situation with agricultural organisations, with Kris Peeters, myself and a transparent representation of regional ministers. That is what we are now doing with the banking sector. There is an additional element that I have submitted to the banking sector. There have been announcements made in France concerning the postponement of a year of payment of investments for agricultural producers in difficulty. I asked for an analysis of this particular provision to see if it could be transposed and in what way (partly or completely) at Belgian level. At the same time, agricultural organizations are not seeking credit-based formulas that have already been known in the past. Agricultural organisations (Boerenbond, ABS, etc.) I have been told that if it is only a question of creating a snowball in front of the farmers who, in the end, will fall on them, they are not interested. That is what we are doing with the banking sector in the short term. In the short term, various other measures are possible to reduce costs: the spread of social contributions; the facilitation of exemption; the integration of losses so that the transport back of losses in the agricultural sector can be put in place so as to adapt to crisis situations. This is what my colleague Van Overveldt is working on. It should be borne in mind that, from a technical point of view, this requires a certain finesse because if this measure is applied to one sector, it cannot be discriminatory for another sector. This device must therefore be well studied. Besides this, there are the 500 million on the table at European level and the measures taken by the regional ministers. To repeat your remarks, any measure that can relieve someone who sees the water rising and who is in difficulty deserves to be studied and put in place. I come to the structural aspect at different levels. At Belgian level, it concerns two distinct aspects. The first part deals with the co-operation of the milk and pig chain. The agreement signed with Comeos, Fevia and the agricultural organisations has two main chapters. The first is on the short-term measures announced on 31 August. As for the milk arrangements, they have just been announced: 2.7 cents of increase per litre of milk produced in Belgium for the benefit of our producers, the start of the payment being already made. To this is added a carryover of 14 cents, over a period of 9 months, on the price of a litre milk brick sold in Belgian shops. For pigs, if the target of EUR 30 million is well confirmed, the modalities are still the subject of negotiations – I have discussed them again with Piet Vantemsche recently. It is a bit complicated to set up such mechanisms when we know that our country is an importer, an exporter and a processor. The modalities of this second part of the EUR 30 million still have to be finalised through the channel's consultation and communicated.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic235x.u15	The 2.7 cents for milk is six months and the other measure is nine months.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic235x.u16	Yes. Why is there a differential? The aim was not to increase the price per litre of milk sold to the consumer too much. You will have noticed in the opinion polls and in the media reports that there is a fairly positive and almost unanimous support of the consumer with regard to an approach in which he wishes to participate in the correct remuneration of our farmers and farmers. The second chapter is to arrive at mechanisms of longer contracting, of funds of smoothing payments over time to farmers, a system in which distribution and processing are more strongly engaged on mechanisms of fair remuneration for our productions. This exercise is not easy to do! I've met a lot of people in charge of distribution and transformation. A mechanism of this nature in a country like ours, which is highly open to imports and exports, is not easy to set up. But it is the commitment that has been made before us and that is the ambition that I have for the sector. At the same time, there is work on beef. In this area, I have described the mechanism of pricing and consultation with stakeholders. We wish to update certain indicators for the negotiation of beef prices. As far as the European level is concerned, there are the same two strands. You're telling me I'm just the spokesperson. Of course, I'm the spokesperson, I respect that. At the same time, however, I am asked about the results of the consultation on the transformation of the European market. I am happy to assume both responsibilities, because I am working in full consultation with my regional colleagues, and we are willing to change some things. I have never said that we are going to change the European market rules set for years in a few meetings. On the other hand, gentlemen de Lamotte and Gilkinet, the lines moved to the European Council. Today, a majority of countries around the table are ready to accept a discussion on new mechanisms, for example a temporary limitation of milk production. These would be measures to anticipate the crisis, including provisions to eliminate a number of animals on markets that are in crisis or are forecast to be in crisis. A more innovative measure would be to set two levels of payment, depending on production. In the event of a temporary limitation of production, a first level of price would be guaranteed, depending on national and European consultations: a guaranteed intervention price on a well-defined base of production. The rest would be paid at the level of the world market price. And other ideas. I have been asked to present to the European Council our work on concertation of the chain at national level. You know that countries such as France and Spain have also negotiated arrangements at their level, which we must study with a view to transposing them in part at European level. Measures at Belgian level are temporary because the competition authority would not accept that the agreement lasts one or two years. It would then be considered to be a price agreement between producers. Of course, we need to have a debate ahead of the implementation of such measures. Mrs Gantois, private opslag, private storage as we have known it, particularly in the pig sector in its last application, has not had a positive effect. On the contrary, since the quantities stored returned to the market at a time when prices were still low, the situation was not only not improved, but worsened. What I am saying today, I am saying in the same way at the European Council table, of which I have not missed any meetings on all these debates since I was in office, except as regards the fisheries aspect, since I am not concerned. The Commission's response was to adapt private storage in terms of volume, remuneration and duration to make it a correct instrument which will be able to absorb enough volume in the event of a depressed market and which will be able to wait to bring the necessary quantities back to the market. However, I do not consider these to be structural measures. For me, these are emergency measures, specific measures. Of course, we did not reject them. Notwithstanding the pressure we have exerted, the development of a number of countries, despite the development of the situation at European level, it has been a serious mistake on our part not to push the negotiations as far as possible today. We have therefore taken what the Commission has given way to under pressure from a number of Member States, including Belgium. And we immediately returned to the fight, in particular by agreeing on this November deadline to re-establish a deadline, with additional pressure on the results for the Commission. Indeed, we have referred to the situation concerning beef and veal, pigmeat and we are in a temporary stabilisation of the milk market and at a price far below what we need to pay our farmers. Therefore, our approach to this issue is to undertake everything that can be done in the short term at federal, regional, European and throughout the social, fiscal, direct, indirect, cash flow, etc. At the same time, however, we are working with the same determination on models to modify several structural parameters for the market. This is my fight as well as that of some of my European counterparts. I think that is absolutely indispensable. On the other hand, of course, I agree with you. Once we have managed the immediate aid, it will be important to take structural measures quickly, otherwise there will be two risks. The first is that we are not restoring markets and that we are only delaying the difficulties faced by certain farms. We would end up six months later with the same crisis. I come to the second risk. If markets go up again, we risk considering that the crisis is behind us and, therefore, not taking these structural measures. So we will find ourselves two or three years later in the face of a new crisis and the same problems. I will keep you informed of the spaces that we are going to develop at European level. In these high-level groups, we find the Presidency of the European Commission, technical representatives of Member States, the European agricultural federations. We want a first report within three months. Four technical meetings and one ministerial meeting will be held in the coming weeks. The aim is to submit proposals for the milk package and other more structural ones. You also mentioned the "small producers" cell, which is being set up. On 15 September, we held a first preparatory meeting with all the parties concerned. Its formal installation will take place on 23 November. We have called on all sectors to inform us of their proposals for improvements in legislation, control processes or any other element that might contribute to the reflection of its cell. I intend to respond to as many problems as possible that small producers regularly raise with you or that are reported by the press. On the other hand, as regards the origin of European funds, we were told that these funds did not come from the agricultural envelope but from margins available at European level.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic235x.u17	We went looking for them in another program, then.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic235x.u18	I am not an expert on the European budget. I know that the European Commissioner himself had to negotiate with the European budgetary authorities. I echo the message, as it was very explicitly given by the European Commissioner. With regard to the Interdepartmental Conference and meetings with regional colleagues, my intention is to bring together in the short term all the colleagues in charge of agriculture and the economy after having had bilateral contacts with the ministers in charge of economics and exports. I have met with Minister Marcourt very recently and will meet with my other regional colleagues in the process. My intention is very clear. In the strictest respect of regional expertise, my goal is that AFSCA can be a tool for our exports because abroad and in a number of international contacts, I can tell you that our food security, our food traceability is a major asset on which we can build. For food-related exports, we have sanitary protocols to sign, such as the one we just signed in China. Mr Gilkinet, I do not share your view on export and export. Of course we must work on the internal market, transform, value in short circuits, have more added value on our products. But as far as big export is concerned, for a country like ours that is largely export-oriented, if we do not take our place in a number of emerging, growing markets, we will deprive our producers ourselves of opportunities and we will offer space to a number of other countries that do not demand better. One case was blocked concerning the export of pigmeat, we were able to unblock it in full consultation with the sector. I can also show you the sector's thank you emails for the work done. We have been able to unblock this dossier and we are trying, in the case of the health embargo, under very difficult conditions, to ask the European Commission to do the same on the fifth quarter, on the parties not affected by the economic embargo with the Russian Federation. Indeed, each time it is capacities and volumes that are evacuated and the processors will be able to tell you that the Chinese market represents x for us in addition and therefore y for the producers in addition. I think it's important. With regard to the promotion and distribution to refugees, the European Commission has decided, by working with the institution which depends on it (the European Commission's Humanitarian Aid and Civil Protection Service) to organise milk distributions via the Member States to refugees or refugee candidates in or outside the Member States during humanitarian operations. I don't know the details. As regards the internal market, the Commission has decided to reform the school milk distribution programme in particular and to have operations to promote the consumption of milk products, meat, etc. on the internal market. We have not yet had the operational details of this action. As far as the President's observation is concerned, it is true that the farmers, with whom I am in very regular contact, have this message: "We do not ask you for a premium; we ask you for a fair price for our products so that we can live in reasonable working conditions on a sustainable basis". This is the whole meaning of the mechanisms that we are trying to dig, to put in place so as to have a result, for a framework that is finally becoming normal. I'll finish. I do not share the feeling of hopeless results. I said here in committee at the end of August, Mr President, that the fight we have begun was indispensable for our farmers. It is a battle of exceptional ambition. This is a fight that we must fight at European level. As far as the distractions are concerned, I would remind you that there are political families who have some power at European level, who are present in Parliament and in the Commission and of whom I see who is a member. You can count on my total determination. I take the opportunity to make the call so that everyone in their European family can convey the same message. In addition, I am at your disposal for possible hearings. If I am not personally present, I will always be represented. I believe that we really need to take on board all the analyses, all the proposals, and we must, together, try to be as effective as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic235x.u19	Minister, thank you. As the last word is always in Parliament, we can continue this exchange. Do colleagues who have spoken or have not yet spoken wish to speak in response to the Minister's answer?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic235x.u20	I gave the note to the secretariat. All figures are available.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic235x.u21	Does anyone want to react?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic235x.u22	Mr President, Minister, I note that we all have the same questions and concerns, share the same concerns and have the same expectations. We are all satisfied with what is happening in the short term, both at regional and federal level, and with what is being achieved in Europe. However, we are all calling for structural measures. I'm sure something will come. Perhaps we do not realize how difficult it is to get all these ministers on the same lines within Europe. However, it is necessary that we take these structural measures in the long term. I will not go over them, because you mentioned a number of things. Your assignment is not negative, but it is very clear. It's not an easy assignment. If we still want agriculture, we will have to work very hard. I remember the time, almost a forgotten time, when a farmer was proud when his son wanted to take over the business. The same farmer is now afraid that his son would want to take over the business. We are going to face rich conditions if we do not turn the tide. We trust you and give you that mandate and we await the results.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic235x.u23	Mr President, Minister, I would like briefly to return to one element of your speech, in an attempt to understand and distinguish. The European Commission promises money, which you said it would not be caught in the annual budget crisis fund. As I understand it, we still do not know in which funds it will be taken, since you have said that the Commissioner in charge of the mission must discuss it with the budgetary authorities. We still do not know where these funds will come from or when they will be released, when they are emergency measures, in the short term. The money must be able to arrive on farms. How do we negotiate this in the European envelope? This is a question of clarification. My other question is about milk. You talked about the promotion of milk, and milk for refugees. You lived like me a long time ago in the debate on donations, especially agricultural products, to food banks. Is this element called into question or is it reactivated? Will there be surpluses for the poorest? I would also like to express our impatience in this matter. Everyone knows the agricultural sector, as we have pointed out here. Workers and farmers are asking for fair remuneration. I would really like to pay tribute to them and say that structural measures are really needed to avoid a series of bankruptcies in this sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic235x.u24	Minister, for my part, I would like to share with you two or three elements of reaction. I know you well enough to know that there is no doubt about the conviction to defend the sector. The force of conviction is there. On the substance, on the content, on the political options, there can of course be greater divergences. We talked about the sector's concerns. You said that depending on the situation, the financial structure, the age, the borrowings and so on, the situations were different. It is true that in some cases concerns are very short-term, while in others they are rather concerns over the medium and long term, sometimes beyond a generation. Some farmers' children do not want to take over the exploitation of their parents, because they see that the area is completely blocked. I insist: their concern is to be able to sell at a price that pays for their work. In addition, they want structural regulatory tools. I don't want to forget this second part. When I talk about structural regulation, it is in the long run; it is not a temporary regulation that would be followed by deregulation leading to other problems. That's the little shade I wanted to bring. About the banks, you set out three elements. There were two meetings, you said. The sector proposes to analyse each situation on a case-by-case basis. The trading is bipartite (bank and operator). You also talked about permanent monitoring, but I didn't see what the third element was. You said that France had taken an interesting initiative, namely the postponement of one year. You said you were going to study this possibility for Belgium. But who will take care of it: your administration, European bodies or the sector? If it appears that this French initiative may be useful, within what time frame could you make this provision? We know that there are a wide range of political trends in Europe, but I imagine that France's policy is identical to ours. I would remind you that agriculture still weighs enormously in this great country. As far as the order of business is concerned, oral questions have been answered in the course of our debate. Mr. Minister would like to touch on two more points.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic235x.u25	I'm making the same observation as yours. Over the past few weeks, I have encountered situations where people are afraid, contrary to what was happening in the past, where the generation in place had the pride of seeing young people take over the farm. I understand that fear! We would be in this case with one of our children who must make the choice to resume exploitation, in the current context, with what it represents as investments, as risks, as difficulties, even if there is passion. I don't describe everything in a negative way. What sign would we give to our children in the face of such a uncertain and difficult situation? It is really crucial to be able to identify structural measures, at national level if possible and at European level, in any case. If we miss this, I think we will continue in an agricultural model that is becoming more and more efficient, but in a sector that is very fragile about its future. I recall the figures, there were about 61,000 farms in 2000 and there are just over 37,000 now. The sector is performing well, but it is in the midst of a crisis and fears for its future. He lost a lot of farms in the space of fifteen years. The model for a sector is not to see hundreds of jobs disappear every year, but it is the reality! If there are 1.7 jobs per farm, each year there are more than 1,500 jobs that disappear in the agricultural sector. I now answer the specific questions. With regard to the Febelfin contact point, it is noted "preferably through your agricultural organisation" but we can also go directly to Febelfin by saying: "I am a customer of such a bank. I am not satisfied with my relationship and the management of my problem, my situation. I would like to seek the assistance of the Banking Federation." As far as France is concerned, I have indicated that I would like to have the details I asked Stéphane Le Foll of the French scheme and of the consequences because there is a guarantee, state aid and mechanisms put in place, before I can advise the banking sector, if necessary, on this response, especially since the connections between the banking sectors of the neighbouring countries are strong as you know. As far as the European level is concerned, Mr de Lamotte, I did not say that we did not know where the money came from. I have been quite specific in my presentation by pointing out that the amounts do not come from the contribution of the Crisis Fund. Why is this important? Because the crisis reserve is made up of a percentage of CAP aid. If you take it in, it means you take it in one of the farmers' pockets and put it in the other pocket. There would be no real extra-budgetary agricultural aid. There is no postponement. In my introductory statement, I detailed, depending on the measures, when the Commission could decide alone or when it could not. So I think I've been very specific. The message that I am delivering to you is exactly that of the Commission, namely that budgets are made available on a number of available margins but that are not the contribution of crisis.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic235x.u26	This comes from other programs.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic235x.u27	Don't ask me to give you a statement of the European budget. At the time of the Commission's communication, this was very clear to us with the mobilisation of funds as early as mid-October for the authorisation of the release of direct aid under the conditions which I also mentioned in my introductory statement. We have x points of attention for our next meeting in a few days. All these elements of implementation, impacts, implementation, market developments, conditions, etc. will be on the table. As regards food aid, there has been a reform at European level. At Belgian level, via the FEAD, we were able to maintain this aid despite the transformation of the European scheme. At the two European Councils which I have reported to you, there has been no mention of any change in the provisions on food aid. However, I take note of your question and stand ready to refer to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-06-54-commissie-ic235x.u28	Colleagues, I think this can close our exchange of views.
