ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-19-54-commissie-ic170x.u1	Mr Minister, this question may come a little late in the year, because it is about the New Year's message that has been given to a number of FPS Finance officials for the first time in history, if I am well informed. It's about your New Year's message, which was in a cover together with the paycheck. Even if this initiative is sympathetic, it probably disturbs some and inevitably raises questions. That is why I would like to receive an answer to the following questions. Which officials were sent this New Year's Message? For example, some federal officials from parastatal institutions would not have received the letter. A pay sheet contains sensitive information, which is also confidential and personal. How was it ensured that privacy was not violated when the letter was sent together with the pay sheet? How many letters were distributed? Is it normal for you to use the administration services to deliver your wishes to the staff while the government introduces savings measures? I am thinking, among other things, of envelope and port costs. It seems strange to me that your fellow Finance Minister did not follow that initiative. By the way, was he aware of the initiative? Have no agreements been made between the Cabinets and the Administrations on the separation of resources, which has always been the case in the past? Previously, due to savings, the best wishes were the subject of messages on the intranet of each administration. Why couldn't I in this case? Do the savings imposed not apply in this case? Finally, what struck me in the letter is the word "desire" printed in italics in the last paragraph. I notice that word because it occurred several times in the election campaign. Am I in favour, Mr President?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-19-54-commissie-ic170x.u2	Mr Top, I must disappoint you. I won't speak in turn, but it's not quite right.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-19-54-commissie-ic170x.u3	Mr President, it is a word that has been rather popular in the past year. I think it was also quite common in your party's campaign material. Apparently, the Minister thinks I'm wrong. Minister, at least I thank you for asking me my question. I expect an answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-19-54-commissie-ic170x.u4	Thank you, Mr Top, for your question. When a minister receives a question he used to be in the opposition but now he is part of the majority sometimes he looks at things differently. On certain oral questions in Parliament, I sometimes wonder if they are laughing or serious. I have prepared a serious answer, although the assessment may be different. Firstly, what is the objective? The current government is taking a number of measures to finally get the budgets back on track after many years. In doing so, departments are subject to a number of savings that are serious and have consequences. As we pointed out earlier, these savings have caused some concern to people. In this sense, in my capacity as Minister for Civil Service and Defence, I have sought a way to get in direct contact with the people who work for us and try to do their job well. We have done so on the Internet, but also on direct mail wherever possible. What's it about, anyway? It is not about a letter specifically intended for the Treasury administration. It is a letter to the staff of the public services whose bets are paid by the Payment Betting Service of the CDVU. They all received the message, with the exception of the following institutions: the Authority for Financial Services and Markets FSMA, the Belgian Intervention and Restitution Bureau or BIRB, the College of Federal Ombudsmen, the Commission for the Protection of Privacy, the Joint Community Committee of Brussels Capital, the High Council for Justice, the Higher Institute for Emergency Planning, the Institute for Judicial Training, the Royal Mint of Belgium, the National Bank of Belgium, the staff of ex-CBFA, the National Orchestra of Belgium, the National Casus for Disaster Damage, the Council of State, the Rampenfonds and the Study and Documentation Centre War and Contemporary Society of SOMA. At the FPS Justice, the judicial order and the services did not receive the New Year's Message. A selection was carried out by the CDVU on the basis of our competence. The staff of the parastatal institutions is not paid out by the CDVU and therefore did not receive the message. A total of 61 035 New Year letters were distributed. The operating methods of the Cabinets and Administrations are, as you ask, completely separate. The draft and printing costs of the New Year's letter were fully borne by my cabinet. The weight gain of the envelope was not such that there was an increase in port costs. We have therefore used a letter which is sent in any case. Unfortunately, it is not possible to send pay slips digitally. That would be a good idea for administrative simplification. Today, however, it cannot be done. Those letters had to be sent and we used them to get in direct contact with those concerned. The budget of the administration was thus not charged by the New Year's Letter, Mr Top. The employees of Fedopress, who sent the letter, added the newsletter to the envelope with the bet sheet. The workers, if there is a human intervention, because I hope that this process will be machined, however, are bound by professional secrecy. There can therefore be no violation of privacy. The Minister of Finance was aware of the initiative. The New Year's message should not be seen as a continuation of any political campaign. My intention was pure and sincere to get in direct contact with those involved. By the way, I have received a lot of positive comments on the letter. A call was also made to contact us directly. That's what happened. We have been able to get some ideas out of that. I would like to point out that in the future the slogan "gouging" to which you refer was indeed written in an oblique way, because "gouging" is not a purely Dutch word and language purists could fall over it. It was a slogan by Open Vld for the legislative elections of 25 May 2014. You may know that I am not a member of Open Vld myself.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-19-54-commissie-ic170x.u5	Mr. Secretary, neither do I. Thank you for your clear answer. I don't think this question is funny, far from it. On the contrary, I do not think it is deontologically appropriate that the administration should receive a personal letter from the Minister of Civil Service, i.e. from the executive. That's my personal opinion. Everyone may disagree, but I don't think it's deontologically appropriate. Minister, you have listed the services that have not received the New Year's Message, such as the parastatals, because the CDVU is not there for the calculation of wages. Some of the services you have listed are very concerned about the savings that are being proposed and may still be forthcoming. I regret that some have received that message from you and others have not. It would have been better if the message had been taken from the entire government and went to all the officials and not just to the part that happens to fall under your jurisdiction.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-19-54-commissie-ic170x.u6	Mr. Chair, Mr. Minister, during the last Selor de bachelier review for the FPS Finances, a recruitment reserve of 50 French-speaking and 50 Dutch-speaking laureates was created and an announcement was made to that effect. According to my information, since then, the positions in question have been frozen at the SPF level. Minister, what are the reasons for this blockage? Will you ensure that at some point these winners can be given a position, as previously announced?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-19-54-commissie-ic170x.u7	Mrs Grovonius, there are indeed two reservations of winners that have been created for the FPS Finances. These reserves are currently maintained by the managing director of Selor. This means that the FPS Finance will be able to draw on these winning reserves as soon as the recruitment freeze introduced for all federal entities by the decision of the Council of Ministers of 18 December 2014 is lifted. Circulars 644 and 655 of the Ministers for the Civil Service and the Budget, approved by the Council of Ministers on 30 April 2015, set out the conditions under which services with sufficient margin may carry out useful recruitments in the short term. The recruitment freeze is over. It's up to the FPS Finances to decide if they want to tap into the reserve.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-19-54-commissie-ic170x.u8	Minister, thank you for your answer. It is true that my question was a little dated. I am pleased to hear that there is a positive development. I hope that the FPS Finances will now proceed with ad hoc recruitment. Is there going to be a check?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-19-54-commissie-ic170x.u9	They must demonstrate that they have a sufficient budget to recruit. Every three months, we conduct a budget monitoring. We will communicate the budget estimates for staff to the CPS and public services in general, who can then decide to recruit according to the budget for which they are responsible.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-19-54-commissie-ic170x.u10	I'll follow this file and maybe I'll come back to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-19-54-commissie-ic170x.u11	The circulars allow the services concerned to assume their responsibilities. It's up to them to decide.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-19-54-commissie-ic170x.u12	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Vanvelthoven's 3387 is converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-19-54-commissie-ic170x.u13	Minister, on 27 April 2015, De Morgen reported that nine out of just under 19 000 FPS Finance officials, by far the largest group among federal officials, had received a negative assessment. These evaluations came after former State Secretary for Civil Service had Hendrik Bogaert put in place a new evaluation system. Two bad evaluations should be sufficient within the new system to put someone at the door, to fire. This would put an end to the system of fixed appointments and speed up the detection of malpractices. How many employees are in the process of evaluating, requesting and processing data, contacting head of department, etc.? How does your cabinet follow the evaluation system since you've been in charge of Civil Service cases? What measures have you already taken? Two evaluations are sufficient to fire someone, when will a second evaluation round take place? Are these evaluations already being used in other departments and are figures already available?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-19-54-commissie-ic170x.u14	Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, has already outlined the problem. It is indeed about the evaluation procedure, with only nine employees out of 18 838 officials, i.e. 0.05%, receiving a negative evaluation at the FPS Finance Office. You have already announced that you will give the evaluation system another chance. Have you made any comments or made minor adjustments on the basis of these data? Have you made a schedule for a next evaluation of the system? In the previous system there were more insufficient, the number of insufficients had increased systematically in recent years, but in 2014 this was so chewed up. What is your position on the matter? You want to give the evaluation system another chance, how do you see it? What adjustments will you make? When will you make another proposal for evaluation?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-19-54-commissie-ic170x.u15	Mrs. Jadin is stuck on another committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-19-54-commissie-ic170x.u16	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for your questions on an important element in the modernisation of the staff policy of the federal government. I will deal with the question as it is prepared for me, in other words in the two languages, although Mrs Jadin is not present. The evaluation system is relatively recent. It did not produce its first effects, for the vast majority of civil servants, until early 2015. You know that it was introduced in January 2014, so in January 2015 there was a full flow for the first time. This system provides for the allocation of one of the following four terms: "exceptional", "fulfills expectations", "to be improved" and "insufficient". The evaluation shall apply to the staff of the federal public office, i.e. to all staff. It therefore concerns each federal administration or programmer federal government, as well as the services which depend on it, the Ministry of Defence, as well as the services which depend on it, or one of the legal persons referred to in Article 1, 3° of the Law of 22 July 1993 laying down certain measures relating to civil service. Evaluation within the federal government pursues several objectives, at the team or individual level, such as improving the functioning, client orientation and outcome orientation of the organization, developing the skills of teams and staff, increasing the accountability and motivation of collaborators through greater involvement, and providing direct communication and feedback between leaders and collaborators. Evaluation cycles are therefore part of a process of continuous development based on the stimulation of a direct and structured communication between the head and the employee, who are co-responsible for achieving the objectives and the achievement of the results, through the various planned interviews of function, planning, operation and evaluation. The motivation of the employees will be based above all on the quality of the whole accompanying process and not on the threat of insufficient or negative evaluation of their colleagues. The emphasis is on guiding and helping the worker, rather than the possibility of punishing him by giving him an insufficient amount. On the contrary, the great innovation of the new system is to enable staff members to be valued for the quality of their work by moderating the baraemic progressions associated with the records obtained. This positive motivation is the heart of the new system. An indication "insufficient' is a signal of the employee's attention to point out that there are insufficient in what he does and that he will have to take action to improve the situation. It is also the signal for the responsible person that it is time to intensify the follow-up measures for the course of work, using all possible means, such as training and coaching, so that the person concerned can improve. Staff who were not adequately trained will be closely monitored during the next evaluation round. In the event of an inadequate assessment, a new evaluation will follow after six months. The time limit is therefore shortened, which means that the conversations follow each other more closely. By providing feedback on the staff member's performance and/or development in the shorter term, handles are provided to obtain the performance and/or development at the desired level. On the one hand, the evaluation is part of the normal working relationship and the feedback process of a manager with his employee. On the other hand, the support provided by the P&O staff is one of the normal tasks of an HR service. Consequently, I do not have an overview of the exact number of employees working exclusively on the evaluation system. On average, I estimate the annual time spent on executives at six hours per employee for the evaluation procedure. The interview, the follow-up interview and so on would therefore, according to the estimates, cover roughly six hours per employee. For the P&D staff, the annual use of time depends to a large extent on the size of the organisations and the way in which the organisations follow their evaluation system. The supporting platform Crescendo has been designed for this purpose. Through weekly reports, it provides an overview of the state of play of the interviews under the evaluation cycle. Organisations that choose to work with paper forms should invest more in the data collection and processing. That seems pretty obvious to me. Before 1 May, all organisations must provide a full report to the FPS Personnel & Organisation on the previous year's evaluations. At the beginning of May a total of 46 563 evaluations were registered as closed in Crescendo. So it is not all evaluations, but it is encouraging for a first year. All the data isn't in yet. There are therefore still evaluations to be carried out, but the figure is encouraging. The results of the first evaluation cycle following the changes that have been made are of great interest to me. I asked my administration to conduct an evaluation of the evaluation system. On the basis of this, I will decide whether to correct this system and where these corrections are necessary. In addition, the Council of State annulled, in judgments of 3 April 2015, certain provisions of the Royal Decree of 24 September 2013 on evaluation in the federal public service, which entered into force on 1 September 2015. On the basis of this decision, I will also make several amendments to the existing rules. This is mainly about the possibility of appeal, which is not the same everywhere. However, we think we have a solution to this, which everyone will probably be satisfied with. Mr Van Biesen, specifically in response to the figures you have quoted, I must inform you that the figures for administrative matters.be, which you quote, are Flemish figures. They are therefore difficult to compare with the federal figures in our evaluation system, which has only been effective since 2014. It is not possible for me today to make a real comparison between the Flemish evaluation system and the federal evaluation system. However, as a final conclusion, I believe that, in a modern policy and also in a modern staff policy, evaluation is a very important instrument in itself. It must also offer some certainty, although of course it has a number of side effects due to the functionality that is common in public office and the need to put everything into very concrete rules. However, we are trying to provide pragmatic solutions. Since today, as Mr Top said, it is seen as a way of getting rid of people more quickly, it must be an instrument which must, above all, ensure that the organisation is given a true image. In this sense, I have already mentioned in the media that nine shortcomings in a total of thousands of workers cannot be realistic. On the other side of the spectrum, we must achieve a normal distribution at organisational level. After all, there are always staff who need to step up, while on the other hand there are staff who excel and should be able to benefit from it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-19-54-commissie-ic170x.u17	Thank you, Minister, for your detailed explanation. I would like to refer to Mr Van Biesen, who did indeed make the comparison with previous figures. Nevertheless, it is clear that this is still a system which, as you have indicated yourself, needs to be evaluated and only just started and must therefore be systematically updated. It is also instructive to find out where the problems arise. You mentioned earlier that only nine employees were assessed negatively. It is true that this figure is probably not a good representation of the overall picture of the employees. However, there should not be a manhunt for the negative employees, which you have not indicated either. I'm from the sector myself. I know that the word evaluation system in itself is not very badly chosen. However, it is rather a kind of development system. It's looking for the best methods to get the employees to step up and get them, as you called it, to step up. That tooth stinging is rather in performance. However, growth opportunities for these people should also be provided for, and where they can best be used should be considered. However, I am pleased to hear that a number of initiatives are being taken to reform the system in order to obtain a modern administration policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-19-54-commissie-ic170x.u18	Minister, I have learned the new evaluation system from your predecessor, Mr Bogaert. Of course, we were all looking forward to the new evaluation system. The first figures were therefore somewhat confrontational. Nine shortcomings on 18 800 evaluations cannot be described as realistic. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I would like to point out in particular that the first period has been more of an adjustment period, with a discussion with staff to guide them to better qualifications rather than actually being used as an evaluation. It has usually been made clear to the staff member in which direction it should work, so that next time it does not fail. Otherwise, it is a very expensive operation, given the six hours per employee. If that is extrapolated to 18 838 officials, it is almost 60 full-time equivalents that do nothing but evaluate each other. They can be better deployed operationally. In my view, the system is better than the previous one, although it is somewhat discredited by these figures. It should therefore be given a second chance, because it has been an accompanying project in the first phase instead of an evaluation system.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-19-54-commissie-ic170x.u19	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Dedry's 4084 shall be deemed to be withdrawn in accordance with Article 127 (10) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-19-54-commissie-ic170x.u20	Mr. President, Minister, the protection of health, safety at work and the well-being of workers are one of my priorities and I am particularly close to my heart. These problems are part of a policy of prevention which consists, on the one hand, of identifying and managing risks at work in order to protect workers and avoid them, in particular, occupational accidents, but, on the other hand, of providing a working environment which enables them to prepare in the best conditions. In order to carry out this important task, the Law on the Welfare of Workers has established preventive counsellors in the prevention and protection services at work. These advisers carry out a wide range of tasks in areas such as occupational safety, psychosocial aspects, occupational health and ergonomics. Some staff members would currently receive an allowance for the exercise of this function of prevention adviser. Minister, I would like clarification on this point. Is it true that some public servants receive a lump sum allowance as a prevention advisor? If so, who can claim this type of allowance in federal public services? What are the conditions for being able to benefit from it? Is there a general legal basis for granting this bonus to all staff in this function? In the event that there is no general regulatory text, what federal public services have they made a ministerial order? How many prevention advisors does this ministerial decision involve? Finally, what is its budgetary impact in each FPS?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-19-54-commissie-ic170x.u21	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Winckel, there is no general regulation at the federal administrative public service level that governs the granting of a function allowance to officials in charge of the function of prevention adviser. Only the FPS Finances had issued a ministerial order of 9 May 2001 granting a flat-rate allowance of €3,540.30 to the official responsible, in his capacity as prevention adviser, for the management of the Internal Service for Prevention and Protection at Work. Since 1 January 2014, however, this allowance can no longer be granted. However, a safeguard measure provides for the continued granting of the allowance to the staff member in charge of management of the Internal Service on 1 January 2014 as a transitional measure for the period during which he or she remains in charge of that directorate, not later than the date on which he or she will be promoted to the A32 or A4 salary scale.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-19-54-commissie-ic170x.u22	Minister, thank you. It is a pity to go back on this measure. You indicate that the allowance can no longer be granted. Why? At the level of the Walloon Region, reverse measures are taken. A mechanism has been put in place to enable the 13 prevention advisers to receive a premium. This is an important subject, particularly for the well-being of workers and for the proper functioning of public enterprises. It is a shame not to value this function, even if this valuation involves the granting of a restricted allocation, you will agree. This is an important thing in the system that governs well-being at work. I can therefore only ask you to reconsider this measure and to conduct a global reflection for all the FPS in this area and not to devalue this function of prevention adviser.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-19-54-commissie-ic170x.u23	I would like to point out that this premium has not been granted since 1 January 2014. The previous government should therefore be asked why it had taken this step.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-19-54-commissie-ic170x.u24	I note that this is an important function within the administrations – knowing all that can be said in the workplace, especially in terms of the well-being of workers. I therefore invite you to come back to this device, if possible.
