ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic063x.u1	We shall take a number of oral questions during this sitting. This afternoon there will also be a meeting of the Joint Committee for the Interior, for the Defence Department and for the Justice Department, starting at 4:30 p.m. This meeting here will therefore last until 16:00, so that there is a break. After all, I assume that tonight will take a little longer than an average day in Parliament at the moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic063x.u2	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic063x.u3	I am speaking very clearly about this Parliament at the moment, Minister. We have already had an insight into your agenda, which has been a little more intense than usual in recent weeks. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Jadin's 1169 was converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic063x.u4	Mr. Secretary, I will not give a major introduction in view of our limited time. Apart from all the media coverage of the PDO campaign, there was a fear at the beginning of the year that, since so many resources are being used for the alcohol controls in the framework of the PDO campaign at the beginning of the year, there would be no more funding for the entire year. However, the BIVV states that it is absolutely necessary to check for alcohol for a whole year. In the written record of my question I also mention the scores in relation to traffic victims that the BIVV gave on this issue. What's true about this now? Is it correct that there will not be enough financial resources to carry out traffic controls throughout the year? If so, will you accept this or will you intervene in the near future? Have you already worked out a structural plan to check on a frequent basis, so that alcohol controls are certainly carried out throughout the country?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic063x.u5	Mr Demon, the fact that you shortened your question gives me the opportunity to answer in more detail. As far as your first question is concerned, I would like to strongly contradict very explicitly the fact that there would not be enough financial resources to carry out alcohol controls and other necessary checks on traffic throughout the year. I strongly disagree with that. In order to carry out the checks, sufficient capacity and sufficient financial resources have been set aside. As for your question about a structural plan to monitor on a frequent basis, three points are important. First of all, it must have been scheduled as a priority in the police plans. Secondly, it must be part of the basic functionality and regular operation of the police. Thirdly, the data must also be monitored and evaluated. I should like to clarify the three points. Road safety, more specifically contributing to the achievement of the objectives of the States-General of Road Safety, is a priority both in the National Safety Plan and in the strategic plan of the federal road police. This is recorded at the levels where it should be registered. Road safety has been included in almost all of the local police's zonal security plans. Almost all areas have road safety priorities, more specifically 173 of the 175 police areas included in their zonal safety plan. In this way, local police services also contribute to achieving the objectives defined by the State General for Road Safety. As you know, 1.2 million alcohol controls are to be carried out every year via the integrated police. One fifth of this, 240 000, is responsible for the federal road police. A fifth is done at the federal level, 80% is done by the local areas. Over the last five years, these 240,000 controls have been carried out by the federal police. The second element is the basic functionality in the regular operation of the police. The alcohol controls of course not only happen during the PDO campaigns, that would make it a bit too easy for the many drinkers. The checks are there all year round. Only with the PDO campaigns there is that specific focus, because this is a risky period. These checks are mainly carried out during regular service. The principle is, stop is blowing. If people are stopped for some reason, alcohol control is always part of the procedure. This happens both during smaller control dispositives as well as during major traffic operations and in the identification of any traffic accident. So there are a lot of opportunities to do those alcohol controls. Also for local police, road safety is a basic functionality. This means that 8% of available capacity should be spent on this by local police. That's the norm. This means that traffic checks are organised throughout the year in all police zones. These actions, as well as the identification of road accidents, systematically carry out alcohol controls. The same applies to the federal road police which has road safety as a basic function on motorways. The figures for the deployment are currently managed at the level of the zones rather than centrally. This is a working point to see how efficiently and effectively we deal with the controls. The figures remain decentralised and are not consolidated for the whole police force. The Federal Road Police records are monitored and evaluated monthly. This shows that the targets are being met. An evaluation is also foreseen for the PDO campaign. As a function of this, I will take the necessary measures to adjust. I recently told you that for this evaluation of the PDO campaign, the effect of the sampling apparatus is important. During the course of this year, the new breathing appliances can be purchased through the federal framework contract. Whoever needs to blow can enter his identity card into the device. It also includes a GPS function so that administrative finishing in case of violation is greatly simplified. This in order to increase controls within the same timeframe. If all police zones can work with this device, it will be easy to set up a central registration of alcohol controls.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic063x.u6	That's good news. The reactions in the media were disturbing. It was feared that the BOB campaign would be the big sloppy. After that, the actions would stop. That is not the case, and that is a good thing.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic063x.u7	Debates of the European Parliament 1290 by Mrs Matz has been converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament 1301 by Mrs Cassart-Mailleux has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic063x.u8	Mr Minister, I myself come from South-West Flanders and am therefore confronted with border crime. This issue was discussed very regularly in the previous legislature. Northern French gangs usually coming from the Lille region and benefiting from the lack of cooperation between the Belgian and French police are creating a problem in our region. They provide ramcracking, car thefts, very violent homejackings in the different police areas in our region. The violence is sometimes very much present. On 5 January we received positive news on the subject. Northern French criminals who had committed a ramcracking in France fled our border. The French police informed the West Flemish colleagues. A patrol spotted the car and sounded the alarm. At Wevelgem, nail mats were placed that caused the tires of these criminals to leak. The West Flemish police could take them in at Roubaix. The court of Kortrijk clearly indicated that the cooperation between the Belgian and French police forces was very successful. That was a positive news report. The public prosecutor's statement raised a number of questions. Firstly, is it true that the cooperation between the French and Belgian police forces has been more successful not only for this one-off fact but also for other matters in recent months? Is there an increase in the number of border criminals arrested? Secondly, what additional actions are there to optimise cooperation between the French and Belgian police forces? If you wish to take any further action in the future, what period do you wish to do so?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic063x.u9	Thank you, Mr President, we are both from South West Flanders. I even live a little closer to the French border, less than ten kilometres away. So we are both concerned about the same problem. My question, Minister, focuses on one of the means of combating border crime, in particular the ANPR cameras, the automatic number plate recognition cameras, to put it in Dutch. During the previous board period, a lot of questions were asked to your predecessor. About a year ago, in January 2014, the then Minister of the Interior replied that it would be analysed whether additional funds could be made available through the Road Safety Fund to support those cameras. Since 1 January 2014, the provincial platform PIT... Provincial Interface for Target Management.. has been operational for the police forces and the ANPR camera...................................................................................................................................................................................... A multi-annual plan is foreseen for the realisation of a total of 103 such cameras. At the beginning of last year 34 were already placed and it was announced that the areas that received federal contributions in 2012 would receive the same support for €52 500 for 2013. The realisation of the camera plan was entrusted to a steering committee in which all players are represented. The plan shall be supported by all relevant bodies. There is Flemish and federal support, and additional European resources are also being sought. With a view to statistical material, a colloquium in Komen in April last year also presented figures for the first time that the French and Belgian police forces gathered together. However, an analysis of these figures had yet to be carried out. I would like to ask you two questions today. Firstly, what is the current state of play in the realisation of the camera plan? Have the zones received a federal contribution this year for the purchase of the cameras last year? Will additional funds be made available through the Road Safety Fund? Secondly, can you outline the evolution in the number of cases of border crime on the respective sides of the border? In the meantime, do you already have the analysis of the figures proposed in the colloquium in Komen?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic063x.u10	Thank you for both questions that have to do with each other, but they are different questions. Mr Vermeulen, to answer your first question about the success of cooperation between Belgian and French police forces. It is true that this cooperation has indeed been strengthened in that border region and that it can be called good. In reply to your second question, I will explain a number of improvements, but we can see today that this evolution is very good and is being strengthened. I believe that increased police cooperation between the two countries has led to results in the sense that the northern French criminal environments have already been visibly disrupted. We do not see an increase, but rather a fall in the number of criminal offences in South-West Flanders, which can be placed under the heading of border crime. However, precise figures on the number of cross-border criminals arrested are not available, as there is no official definition of this concept and no statistics on it are currently available. As regards the additional actions in the border region of the provinces of West Flanders and Hainaut with France, an action on border crime is currently being carried out per month. A joint command between the Belgian and French police forces is hereby installed, which will make it easier for the French databases to be questioned. As you know, this has always been a problem of data exchange, but a common command is now being installed in such a way that this reluctance on the part of the French can be avoided a little. In addition, mixed Belgian-French teams are working in the West Coast police zone. In terms of the number of shifts in the field participating in the actions of border crime, we hope that the French police forces can cooperate even more actively. I have already said this in committee. I have already been in contact with my colleague Mr Cazeneuve from France. You know that the protocol must also pass through the French Parliament. I shall see Mr Cazeneuve again next week and will not fail to bite the man in his calves until this protocol passes through Parliament. The ratification of the protocol has already taken place here on 19 December 2013, but it is true that it has yet to be ratified in the French Parliament. Finally, there are still a number of important legal obstacles in cross-border cooperation with France that are not resolved in the Tournai II Convention, which still has to be ratified in France. This is primarily about cross-border pursuits. Cross-border chases from Belgium to France are still possible only if the Belgian police have caught suspects in the act in one of the 14 types of offences mentioned in Article 41.4 of the Schengen Agreement. Moreover, Belgian police officers carrying out a cross-border chase on French territory do not have a full right to stand. We will continue to urge France to make the rules on cross-border pursuit more flexible, as has already been done, for example, with the Netherlands and Luxembourg through the Benelux Police Cooperation Treaty. In short, even if the current treaty already ratified by Belgium is ratified by France, this problem will not yet be resolved. The French didn't want to go that far last time. Never waste a good crisis They say. I hope France will now be more flexible. I'll certainly discuss that when we meet in Riga next week. Mrs Lahaye-Battheu, your first question was about the state of play of the camera plan. Work will continue on the implementation of the existing camera systems of the local police zones in the West Flanders Provincial ANPR camera network. New camera systems are systematically incorporated into the network. After completion of the ongoing implementations, some sixty ANPR cameras, both fixed and mobile, will be included in the West Flemish ANPR camera network. Recently a new application was developed for the control of hits generated by the fixed ANPR cameras of the police zone Het Houtsche. The dispatching of the Communication and Information Centre West Flanders (CIWES) immediately directs the teams of the police zone. This application will be available for the entire network after the test phase. Now it's a pilot project. That's evaluated first, and then it's rolled out all over the camera network. I would like to note that since 2012, the areas as previously agreed have received €52 500 per year in support of recruitment. This amount may be used for the installation of ANPR cameras. This amount also applied in 2014 and was recently repaid at the beginning of January. The Road Safety Fund will indeed allocate funds to two new projects. A first project is a system of mobile camera dynamometers for controlling traffic flow at major events. This amounts to EUR 250 000. A second project, called info Investbx - Keeping our roads saver. I don't know if the French will understand that... will ensure that intelligent cameras are enriched with information from databases of different police services. An amount of EUR 2 263 547 is foreseen for that project. These projects are carried out through joint purchases and are intended for the integrated police and not for some police area. This is therefore at the integrated level. As far as your second question is concerned, I have a whole document with an analysis of that data. I'd like to deliver it to you instead of going over the analysis completely. So the analysis has been done and we have the figures for 2012, 2013 and 2014. I'd be happy to provide you with that information.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic063x.u11	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. I hope, of course, with you, that the recent events which have led to closer cooperation between France and our country in the field of border crime will allow for further cooperation. The improvement is already very positive, but of course the problem has not been resolved at all. In recent months, I have personally visited two victims, a person who has been robbed 18 times in 17 years, sometimes very violent, in his own home where he had to stay locked in his own panic room for 20 to 25 minutes. The other was robbed 15 times in a short time. One case is located in Ledegem, the other in Menen. Both points out that sometimes the French police and the French police still have difficulty working together with Belgian colleagues. They indicate this because they feel that the Belgian police and the Belgian police are still making too little effort to deal with their concerns. Border crime is primarily a Belgian concern, but French concerns must also be included on Belgian territory. They are talking very specifically about the problem of drugs and arms traffic to France. This traffic passes on Belgian territory or originates there.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic063x.u12	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Very specific in relation to the two new projects financed from the Road Safety Fund: from when? Is this decided, but does it still have to be implemented? Could you be a little more specific about that?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic063x.u13	That is what has been decided. The budgets were allocated. It's a pilot phase twice, and that pilot phase is being deployed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic063x.u14	Minister, the reports that Belgium would score higher than our neighbouring countries in terms of deaths in the event of fires were surprising. At regional level, a great deal of efforts have been made in recent years in the context of prevention policies and regulations on smoke detectors have also been put in place. In particular, these reports refer to the lack of figures. Last year, 69 people died in a fire. If policy is to be pursued, we must be able to start from good statistical material. This also applies to the regions. Measuring is knowing. I based myself on the newspaper articles. In my previous life, in the Flemish Region, I have drawn up legislation on fire prevention and especially on smoke detectors. This has proved to be a procession of Echternach in Flanders, because there are three different regulations in Wallonia, Brussels and Flanders. Are the newspapers that we have all been able to read correct? In the previous legislature, fire reform was a priority. You yourself have already indicated that we must dare to evaluate this within five years. One of the points of attention was the statistical material, which should be improved. We did not start the fire-fighting reform until 1 January. What's the status today? I can hardly imagine that there is no Civilian Security data available in our country, all the more so because we have the Civilian Security Knowledge Centre, which has to publish an annual report. On the website of that knowledge centre I found no information. Either there's nothing on it, or I've been looking for it wrong. Does the knowledge centre fulfil its mission? If not, what is the reason? Can you get back to the point? In the field of prevention, the Länder have a mandate. In a small country like ours, we should be able to organise a week from a prevention point of view on fire prevention and fire prevention. Many initiatives are being taken in the Netherlands. Do you have any intentions about this yourself? That may not be the biggest hot issue in your policy area, but it seems to me very useful, especially for those who will ever be dealt with. Is there an action plan in this area? If not, do you intend to draw up and roll out such a plan throughout the country?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic063x.u15	I have exactly the same concern as Mrs Heeren and perhaps also as Mrs Temmerman. We have read on knack.be that the statistics relating to fires since 2005 have not been kept up to date. What also struck me is that on the websites www.civilsecurity.be and civilsecurity.be the figures do not match. However, the figures should give a good picture of, among other things, the nature of fires, the frequency and the victims. On this basis, I believe, we can develop a sound fire prevention policy and draw conclusions. Is it true that since 2005 no statistics have been kept on the fires in Belgium? What initiatives will you take to centralise and make the data public, so that stakeholders can also use it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic063x.u16	Apparently there are more house fires and more deaths from house fires in Belgium than in the neighbouring countries. Moreover, the statistics are simply no longer kept up-to-date. However, measuring is a matter of knowing. If we want to do something about the problem, we need to keep at least the statistics on the matter. Perhaps there are other explanations why we count more house fires than in neighbouring countries. According to some, this is due to the fact that the smoke detector is mandatory in neighbouring countries. Here there is only an obligation for rental houses and new buildings. Perhaps there will be some improvement here as well. We must, of course, keep statistics for this purpose. Why don't people do that anymore? What are your intentions in that regard? What measures will you take to reduce the number of house fires?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic063x.u17	Mr President, I have grouped my answer to the questions into six parts and I will tell you which part of my answer is in line with which of the interveners. The first part of my answer refers to Mrs Heeren's first question. It is true that in 2014 there were 69 victims in house fires. In the Netherlands 40 people died as a result of a house fire and 231 people died in France. Neighbouring countries' figures date back to 2013. Nevertheless, we have to note together that, taking into account the proportionality of the population and the number of house fires, the statistics for our country are less favourable. Less favourable than the understatement of the day, our statistics are just not good. With a second element, I reply to Mrs Heeren's second question, to Mr Metsu's first question and to Mrs Temmerman's second question. This is about the statistics. On 16 December, a report containing the 2012 statistics was presented by the Federal Knowledge Centre for Civil Security during the Safety Day. The report contains, among other things, the number of house fires, broken down by type of home, which explains why these figures were made public at the time. This report is the most recent publication on such statistics since the publication of the statistics in 2004 and 2005. No statistics have been published since 2005 and until the publication of the 2012 statistics in 2014. As questions have arisen concerning the quality of the 2004 and 2005 statistics and no statistics have previously been kept, 2012 will serve as a reference year. So 2012 is a kind of zero measurement and compared to neighbouring countries, the result is very poor. I now come to Mr Metsu's second question. Since September 2012, the intervention reports of the fire services have been centralised in an online database. Earlier this did not happen, so the compilation of statistics until then was manual work. In addition to the 2012 report, the 2013 data report will be published before summer 2015. Because registration is now electronic, we can play a shorter game on the ball to collect the data. Those reports will also be available on the general management's website. You are right, today even the limited statistics for 2012 are not on the website. They're supposed to be on it by now. Mrs Heeren, in reply to your third question, I can inform you that the knowledge centre was established in 2007 as a state service, albeit with separate management. The aim of the Centre is to collect and process information of all kinds, related to Civil Security, in order to ensure a better and uniform service of the fire department. However, I regret to note today that the objective and the resulting tasks have not been sufficiently achieved. The knowledge center is there, but I am not satisfied with the output of the knowledge center. One may, of course, wonder why. One element could be that there has been a very rapid follow-up of several ad interim directors. This is not for the report, but it is sometimes said that a fish is starting to rot at the head. The same applies to organisations. If there are changes of directors at the head of a service very quickly, this could damage the performance of such an agency. I have therefore instructed my services to analyse this and, if necessary, recommend a reorganisation of the knowledge centre. So I'm in the field of the performance of the knowledge center on your wavelength. A fourth element in my answer is the answer to Mrs Heeren's fourth question and to Mrs Temmerman's first question. At present, because of the lack of statistics, we do not have enough data to know the main causes for the 69 victims. We have no differentiation in the figures, for example on the type of fires. That information is only very sporadic in the intervention reports. What we do know is that, especially in Flanders, the obligation to place smoke detectors is relatively recent and therefore certainly not all homes are equipped with them. However, the law is there. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not need to repeat to you as legislators that legal obligations need a certain amount of time to get settled. There has been a population survey, which shows that only one Belgian out of three is awake from fire safety in his environment. It also turns out that one Belgian out of ten still doesn't think a smoke detector is important. The alertness in this area is therefore not very great. If the citizens do not participate, we can, of course, make a lot of declarations. Mrs Heeren, your fifth question is also your last question. Jurisdiction in matters of residence is a matter of regional importance. The three Regions have imposed legal obligations for the placing of smoke detectors in homes. The Brussels-Capital Region and the Walloon Region already did so in 2004. The Flemish Region was the last to do so, in 2013. In practice, it takes a certain amount of time to encourage citizens to actually place smoke detectors. In addition, in 2010 Home Affairs launched an action plan to raise citizens' awareness of fire safety in their own living environment. The aim of this action plan is to increase public support and thus reduce the number of victims of house fires. What are the concrete actions in this plan? Firstly, promotional campaigns for smoke detectors are being launched in homes. Promotion campaigns will draw attention to a good flight plan, fire risks in the kitchen, CO poisoning and so on. Thirdly, fire prevention advisers will be trained and sent out. These are firefighters who advise citizens on fire safety in their environment and in their language. Together with all kinds of partners, we want to take further steps leading to greater fire safety for citizens. Those partners are the regional authorities, the fire department and third parties. For the latter, you need to think about the Burn Foundation and the insurance companies. Insurance companies have every interest in reducing the number of house fires. Finally, I come to Mrs Temmerman's final question. I am convinced that good and updated statistics are real policymaking tools to optimize firefighter training and operational procedures. As far as prevention is concerned, statistics allow us to better prepare our campaigns and to make citizens aware. In particular, I refer to my answer to the previous questions for these actions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic063x.u18	Thank you, Minister, for the comprehensive answer. I think it is important that you get the Federal Knowledge Centre up and running and that someone there has the drive to collect that information. You are right when you say that the regulations in the Flemish Region are quite recent. In Wallonia she is older and in that sense it is interesting to know where the 69 people died. You say that our citizens are not really awake from fire safety. That can be good, but only until they experience it themselves, because then it's too small. The insurance intervention received cannot then be high enough. Such a house fire is a great tragedy, because then everything is lost from one day to the next. The action points, which you have listed, are in any case good. However, I would urge you to focus in the media on a week of security in any month. This is organised in our neighbouring countries in October or November, because fires and CO poisoning are more common in winter months. You can work creatively on that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic063x.u19	Thank you for the very satisfactory answer. We assume that the figures for the summer of 2015 will be integrated at www.civilsecurity.be and www.civilsecurity.be.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic063x.u20	Thank you very much for your reply. Cooperation with the regions is necessary, especially with regard to control. The law is here. I have been told that control leaves much to be desired. A check must also be carried out in conjunction with the campaigns.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic063x.u21	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Khattabi's 1324 has been converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic063x.u22	The number of controls with drug dogs in and around schools is decreasing. This is reflected in the annual report that we were able to see from the P Committee. In 2012 the drug dogs were deployed 163 times, in 2013 it was 143 times. According, among others, criminologist De Ruyver, coordinator of the Interministerial Conference on Drug Policy, the drug problem among secondary school students is mainly a health problem that requires a more chain-oriented approach in which the police should not play a leading role. Prevention is, of course, an important task for the Communities. However, the police must certainly also play a role in this policy. In particular, in the context of community-based police care, where police services must be partners of other public services in the fight against drugs, among others. That is why I have a few specific questions. What specific arrangements were made with the Community services in this respect? Are such agreements regularly updated? Did you find figures on the number of drug offences in schools in 2013 and 2014? How many pvs were made up? Finally, is there an increase in the number of crimes?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic063x.u23	Mr Demon, to answer your first two questions, retailing and the related community-oriented police care are priorities for the local police. I do not have information on possible agreements and agreements between the local police and the Communities and the services which operate at local level and fall within the competence of the Communities. I don't have any data on that. I suggest that you have that question put by a colleague in the Flemish Parliament. I don't have that data. As for your third question, the figures for 2014 will not be available until April 2015. I don't have it yet, but according to the most recent available data, which is an extraction from the National Database on 15 December 2014. To give you an idea, in 2013 it was for the whole year 916. So for the first semester 2014 already 527 pv. That was about drug possession 608 versus 333. Beware of the latter figure always includes only half a year. Sales: 191 versus 130, use aid: 29 versus 25, import and export: 17 versus 7 and other things, for what it's worth, 71 versus 32. So we're seeing an increase. Which pvs were made up, broken down by province: Antwerp and East Flanders are provinces where the highest number of pvs is drawn up. I have a table in annex where you can find all these elements per province, and also the different types of drugs. The most common type of drugs associated with these facts is cannabis and especially marijuana. Then you ask me if this is an increase in the number of crimes. I would like to wait until April 2015 until these matters can be closed and then we can compare the figures well.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic063x.u24	Thank you. We will wait, but I think it is important that we take initiatives. You yourself say that I can ask for things from the fellow Members of the Flemish Parliament, but we insist that there should be integrated work on sensitisation, in conjunction with the police. If we find that it is said that fewer drug dogs are provided for, although we know that this is the best way to detect drugs, this must be looked at so that we can get this under strict control. Of some things we notice from the outset that there will be an increase, so it will also be important that we act alongside prevention.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic063x.u25	Minister, one more question and you are rid of me. I recently read in an article in Humo about the confiscated and forfeited money that is on the account of the Central Commission for the Confiscation and Declaration. The director, Theo Jacobs, indicates that there are often sloppy new deposits. Police inspectors deposit the money into one of the account numbers, but forget to mention its origin. Sometimes they get a social security number, but because of these shit, two police officers have to call around to figure this out. That's what the article said. At one point, this service had more than 900 amounts in its accounts, the reasons for which were unknown because of its carelessness. For the oldest sums deposited in 2003 and 2004, they have even created files that they would now call the X-files: despite their search work, they still do not know their origins. This money stands there and sleeps, while I think it can be used better. Mr Minister, do you have any idea what amount the police transferred last year to the account of the Central Commission for Confiscation and Declaration? Are there any rules for transferring these amounts?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic063x.u26	I would like to point out that COIV falls within the competence of the Minister of Justice. The amounts for 2014 are not yet available, which is for February 2015. This can happen if you request statistics from 2014 in January. At the end of February, early March 2015, Minister Geens will have access to them. The regulations bind my services, the police, yes. The rules for the transfer of funds are contained in a circular from the College of Attorneys General, the so-called COL7 of 2004. It provides that the cash sums seized shall be deposited or deposited with a financial institution, ordered by the COIV. At present, that is the bank ING. Immediately thereafter, the amounts must be notified by faxing the minutes to the COIV. For more information, I must refer to the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic063x.u27	I certainly understand that, but I think we will have to consider how to work together to find a solution, including for dormant money and unallocated fines. I will ask the question to Minister None and see if there can be a link.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic063x.u28	Minister, you recently visited the Provincial Training Centre for Security in Zedelgem in West Flanders. This province may become the safety research lab, as you said, and we are proud of that. What is tested and found to be good can also be rolled out in the rest of the country. The training centre wants to build a safety street where various actors such as fire and police can participate in disaster simulations on a landscaped street, for example in case of fire, robbery, disaster. With this safety street, the West Flemish school hopes to attract external partners and will also pay for participation in the training. However, there is uncertainty because the government wants to decentralise specializations. Cooking costs money, so without pennies the construction of a traffic street will not be possible. On the site visit you were supposedly very excited about the project. There isn't just this sigh. There is also the fact that fewer and fewer police aspirants have been recruited since 2010. In 2014 fewer aspirants started and also in 2015 the finger is put on the cut. Less influx is also likely to lead to less blue on the street. In my view, therefore, several provinces are rightly concerned about the continued existence of police training. The financial situation of the provincial police schools is reported to be precarious. I was a county council member on the board of directors and I know it is. Different elements are covered. For example, basic training is underfinanced. The basic training grant depends on the number of aspirants. If the number of aspirants falls, subsidies fall, while fixed costs and teaching costs do not change. There is no certainty about subsidies at the start of the year of operation. There is a late or insufficient delivery by the federal police of clothing and ammunition for the aspirants. How much funding will you make for the construction of the security street of the West Flanders police school? Will you change the funding mechanisms of the police schools? How do you see this? Which police training courses will you centralize? Have you already worked out a concrete plan or can you give it a timing? Do you already see the impact of the destruction by the Constitutional Court of the police pension scheme and the replacement rate that would be necessary for these new recruitments combined with fewer police aspirants?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic063x.u29	Mr Minister, my question focuses on the funding of training by the federal police. Funding bottlenecks would be concrete: under-financing of initial training courses from EUR 70 000 to EUR 200 000 on an annual basis, depending on the size and start-up date of the classes, late or insufficient delivery of clothing and ammunition to the aspirants and uncertainty of subsidies at the start of the year of operation. I have the following questions. Firstly, do you recognise these bottlenecks? Secondly, when are you planning to reform the funding of police education linked to quality standards and standards, and which standards and standards exactly? Is it true that the West Flemish police school has already indicated its willingness to participate actively in this? Thirdly, how many aspirants will start in provincial schools this year? How many lights are foreseen? What time will they start?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic063x.u30	Mr Demon, you rarely force me to be enthusiastic about things I see. Every time I show my enthusiasm, the scholarship has to open. I understand the context. I will be less enthusiastic in the future. Now, all crazy on a stick. On the question of the construction of the security street and the financial resources of the federal government, I cannot answer immediately. It's true that I was excited about this project, but as you say, cooking costs money. What we want to do now is I will work that out even further in my reply and I will review the whole aspect of the police schools. First of all, I think we should not go to fewer schools, but I am thinking of allocating specialities to certain schools. We should not offer all specialized training courses in each of the ten schools. A project such as that safety street seems to me to be a typical example of that. If West Flanders can do that, and possibly one of the Walloon schools, then we can intervene in the funding. Before I do that exercise, it's hard. Specific projects are not included in the current funding, but I would like to do so in the future. That's why I'm answering your question a little overwhelmed. In addition, the federal police are working on another major project, the Goetsenhoven site, where such realistic reconstructions provide streets and houses. We need to make sure that both of us don't collide. As far as the financing mechanism is concerned, I would first like to make the exercise I have just referred to, in this case: to which school will be awarded specialities. Only then will we see how we will finance it. So at the moment, in the short term, I do not foresee a change in the financing mechanism. I have already visited three of the ten schools, namely Antwerp, West Flanders and yesterday Jurbise. Everywhere, I get the same question. The provinces provide for the lion's share of funding for those schools and the provinces will reduce that. Something has to happen, but please give me time for this, I'm only in office for three months. I don't know if you've noticed, but there are a few problems I've had to deal with here and there. Not everything is a top priority, but the police schools are definitely something we can't leave for long. I'm visiting them right now to make an analysis on the premises. The government agreement states that the government will strengthen cooperation and synergies between police schools, not only between police schools, but also the other training courses provided on such a site. Because many of these sites are multidisciplinary, where firefighters and medical professionals are trained. This cooperation must certainly be strengthened. This cooperation and rationalization of specialist training will address the problem of financing. I have asked the Home Office to launch exploratory talks with a view to defining a clear mandate for a working group to examine this cooperation and synergies between police schools. In my planning it is too early to give a concrete answer to the questions of funding. What I do want to say is that I do not think that offering the same specialized training in different schools at different times is the right solution. We need to find elements of cooperation and synergy in this area. In order to have a guarantee of influx, I decided before 2015 that 800 people could start their basic training inspector this autumn. In answer to your question, Mrs Lahaye, those recruits themselves decide which school they want to attend, they are free to choose. So I cannot tell you how many there will be for West Flanders. I wish you a great deal, but at this stage I cannot tell you that. Then there's the replacement rate. It is also difficult to be specific about this. After all, the key tasks debate plays an essential role there. We started that debate on 18 December and I asked the task force to take a first shot to get their report out by the end of February. With that report we will start the consultation of the three associations of cities and municipalities and a number of other players on the field. So it's not just something we're putting on the long run. I want to make decisions about this in the middle of this year. That is, of course, essential to see how many people we need to recruit and train. Excuse me if I have remained a little vague in my answers, but I have given you the sequence of actions that allow us to come up with a vision of those police schools.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic063x.u31	It is true, of course, that there is an influx of 800 prospective policemen and that they can choose where they are trained. I do not want to get caught up in the criticism of colleagues from the other provinces, but figures show that there would already be enough inspectors in Limburg and that there is a great need for them in West Flanders. So I think we will have to consider whether this influx of 800 people can somehow be distributed according to the need. As far as security is concerned, we will continue to follow it. I am pleased that you were satisfied, that you will continue to confirm here and see what else will be possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic063x.u32	As far as recruitment is concerned, I would like to ensure that areas which send a number of people to training are also obliged to include them later. Now it often happens that candidates start training, while the zones at the end say that they do not need these people. Therefore, the window should be more stringent. When, so to speak, recruits are ordered, they must also be taken after the training.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic063x.u33	Mrs. Lahaye, would you like to replicate?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic063x.u34	Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister for his reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic063x.u35	Mr President, Minister, a few days ago this committee heard representatives of the panel of experts responsible for monitoring what is commonly referred to as electronic voting. On that occasion, the experts stated that they were not sure that the contract linking the Inland FPS to the various audit companies responsible for technical verification and validation of JITES and CODl software provided for the verification and certification of source codes. We discussed it a lot in this committee and it turned out that it was Van Dijk company that fulfilled this task for the elections of 1999, 2000 and 2004. And PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC) consultants provided this mission in 2007, 2009, 2010, 2012 and 2014. As the experts explained to us on 6 January last year, the very many technical problems known by the CODl system last May originate from two lines of code poorly drafted by the company STESSUD, which had edited the CODI software and had won the market for the introduction of automated voting and counting. For the very last vote that was catastrophic, in Brussels in particular, PwC was clearly unable to detect the two famous lines of code in question when it proceeded with the certification of JITES and CODl software, under a contract that binds PwC to the Internal SPF. Minister, could you please clarify to me whether the contract between Van Dijk and the Internal FPS in 1999, 2000 and 2004, and the contract between PricewaterhouseCoopers and the Internal FPS in 2007, 2009, 2010, 2012 and 2014 provided for the certification by these consultants of the source codes of the JITES and CODl software developed by STESSUD? Could you also specify the amounts of each of these contracts? Finally, could I have a copy of those same contracts?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic063x.u36	Mr President, Mr Hellings, in accordance with the law of 11 April 1994 organising automated voting and the law of 7 February 2014 organising electronic voting with paper proof, electronic voting systems, both first and second generation, may be used in elections only if they comply with the general conditions of approval laid down by royal decree, the Minister of the Interior ascertaining this conformity on the basis of the opinion of the body approved for this purpose by royal decree. The accredited organization in question is what you call audit companies in your question. In total, four companies are currently approved by royal decree, following a call for applications to obtain this authorisation, which was published in the Belgian Moniteur on 8 October 2002. However, it must first be made clear that no legal contract binds the Internal FPS to these four control companies. Indeed, as the call for applications published in 2002 states, "the provider of voting software must submit the software in question to the opinion of an approved company of his choice, the cost of which is borne by that provider". The cost is therefore not at the expense of the SPF, but at the expense of the one who supplied the hardware and software. As regards the tasks to be carried out by these control companies, I refer again to the 2002 call for applications, which states, inter alia, that, in the context of the software certification procedure, the companies "demonstrate that the tests to which a voting system is subjected are complete, namely that they include tests for the reception and control of the basic software with the source codes, for the preservation of the software, for the preparation of the vote, for the control of the material at the polling station and for the tabulation of the votes at the main canton office". Controlling the source codes of the software is therefore part of the control scope of these companies. This means that I have no answer to your second and third questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic063x.u37	Minister, thank you for your very comprehensive answer. It is a subtlety that is not even, visibly, of the knowledge of the college of experts that we have heard. Indeed, it was they who suggested this question to the Commissioners present in committee a few days ago. What I note is that, in the tasks to be carried out by the companies in question, in particular PwC, it was indeed a matter of verifying the source codes. This confirms that PwC really failed in checking these source codes and is therefore co-responsible for the May computer bug. This is vital information.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic063x.u38	Mr Minister, my question is indeed about preventing attacks in our country. It is a question that I asked on 14 January 2015, day before the foiled attack in Verviers. I did not, of course, put them in response to that event, but I did in response to a statement made on 11 January 2015 by our Minister of Justice, Mr Geens, in the RTBF programme Mise au point. He declared that more attacks are being thwarted in our country than there are. That is why I have the following questions. Were you aware of that verdict? Were you aware that he would make such a statement? Do you know what attacks he was talking about or what attacks would have taken place during the period in question? Have the Security of the State and OCAD provided you with any information on this matter?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic063x.u39	Mr Degroote, Mr Geens's statement was actually a general statement that our services are, of course, preventing attacks. He did not mean very specifically that we at government level knew about such attacks. His statement was contrasted by the press with my answer to the question of whether attacks had been thwarted in recent weeks. On that question I could report by hand on the heart that no attacks had been thwarted. I have spoken with Minister None about his statements. What he wanted to put forward was that our services are effectively engaged in this matter, without pointing out very specific cases and cases. Before the facts, therefore, I was not aware of the statements made by Mr Geens, and then I was. We talked about it, too. His words were beaten up in the press, they were much more innocent than they were supposed to be. In reply to your last question, both OCAD and the police and the police are constantly informing ministers about cases of increased threat in connection with the terrorist case. I must honestly admit that the flow of information on this issue is, in my opinion, correct. I would certainly like to thank the services for that. I can therefore also clarify that there have been no similar cases since my arrival, apart from the recent anti-terrorism operation in Verviers and in Brussels. That's obvious.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic063x.u40	Minister, your answer is quite sufficient for me. In the meantime, the fact that the services were working on the case has proved its worth. Those concerned deserve all praise.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic063x.u41	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Daerden's 1402 will be dealt with in the Committee on Justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic063x.u42	Minister, we have already had the opportunity to debate the issue when discussing your policy paper. Police zones throughout our country have long been waiting for the backseats of the Road Safety Fund for the period 2010-2013. When discussing the policy paper, you said that it was a sum of EUR 80 million and that you would work out a solution before the end of the year. In this sense, we were pleasantly surprised when, on 14 January, we were able to take note of the Royal Decree of 30 December, in which you implement Article 7 (1), second and third paragraphs, of the Law of 6 December 2005 on the preparation and financing of road safety action plans and the allocation of the balance 2009. Unfortunately, this is only about the 2009 backlog of around EUR 9 million, if I have read it correctly. There was no mention of the behind stables for the period 2010-2013. At the time, the Traffic Fine Fund was created to give local police areas the opportunity to invest in more road safety. You mentioned earlier, in the context of another question, that road safety is a top priority for all echelons. Locally, we were counting on that amount. In this sense, it puts a little pressure on the budget not only with us, but in many police areas. Mr Minister, do you have any idea when the promised backseats from the Traffic Fine Fund can be paid out for the years 2010-2013? Can you give the guarantee that, as far as this year is concerned, payments can be made in good time? I do not know why this has not been done systematically in the past every year. Do you have enough reserves to apply the initial legal key this year or do you intend to adjust the key?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic063x.u43	I can answer the two questions in a very specific way. I said so in the presentation of my policy letter and policy paper. The Royal Decree of 13 December 2014 also stipulates that we make a catch-up every year for the payment of the balances. In concrete terms, this means that the balance for 2010 will be paid in 2015 and the balance for 2011 in 2016. Moreover, we will not allow any further delays. The balance of the current year shall always be paid together with the balance of a catching-up year.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic063x.u44	This means that the amounts will be spread out until 2017?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic063x.u45	Yes. That is how I put it in my policy letter and in my policy paper. It is also included in the multiannual budget.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic063x.u46	Mr President, I should like to postpone my questions Nos 1431 and 1433, under items 18 and 19, respectively, until a next committee meeting, so that we remain on schedule today. In view of its importance, I should like to ask my question No. 1430 treatment.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic063x.u47	Minister, this question is about the fastest adequate aid and the interzonal invoicing associated with it. More specifically, it's a sentence that snuck into the law. According to Article 6 (3) of the Law of 15 May 2007, where they carry out contracts under and taking into account the principle of the fastest adequate assistance in the territory of another zone, the costs of the intervention concerned in that other zone may be recovered provided that those zones have failed to conclude an agreement between them which regulates, on the one hand, the financial arrangements and the implementation of the fastest adequate assistance and, on the other hand, lays down the procedures for strengthening staff and equipment. This obviously means that zones wishing to bill and intervene in the territory of another zone have little or no incentive to conclude an agreement. In addition, these areas employ almost exclusively professional staff, as witnessed by the fact that we in Antwerp are often confronted with the Rand zone. The intervention costs of these professional staff are considerably higher than those of those who work mainly with volunteers. For a large number of areas bordering larger professional areas, this would naturally lead to large, if not priceless and difficult to estimate, costs under unchanged policies. Fortunately, there are also areas that have already agreed to work with closed fairs, which was also the initial objective of providing the fastest adequate aid. When the zones help each other, there is no necessarily need to be billed. Minister, are you aware of this problem? I think so, because you've been president of the Prezone Rand yourself. Will you take initiatives to adapt the rules on interzonal invoicing so that the zones are called upon to conclude agreements and so that the budgetary situation of some zones is prevented? If so, what changes do you intend to make to the regulation in order to resolve this problem?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic063x.u48	Mr Metsu, my answer to your first question is yes, to your second question is yes, and to your question which adjustments I think to solve that problem, I can answer that in the law of 15 May 2007 I want to amend Article 6 (3) by adding a phrase stating that the King will determine the conditions under which billing can take place. We will then be able to determine by royal decree under which conditions a billing can be allowed. Your remark, that there is no incentive for the billing party to reach an agreement today, is indeed justified. It is not fair to put one of the two parties in advance in a winning role when making an agreement. We change it that way.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic063x.u49	Questions Nos 1431 and 1433 by Mr Metsu have been postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic063x.u50	Minister, at the beginning of January many mayors in Belgium received a letter from the Home Office concerning the point of contact for the issue of provisional identity documents. The service said that, for budgetary reasons, the standard opening hours in the existing points of contact will be reduced. The service is there so that citizens who have lost their identity card suddenly or from whom it has recently been stolen, and for which there is not enough time to apply for a new card, under certain conditions at the regional offices, could collect new identity documents. Fortunately, we are dealing here with exceptions. Nobody likes to lose their wallet before they leave on an international trip. The limitation of opening hours seems logical to me, given the budgetary context. However, there was an asterisk at the Leuven counter. This was due to be closed from May 2015. For the province of Flemish Brabant this is a step in the wrong direction. As a result, residents in the eastern part of Flemish Brabant, beyond Leuven, will have to go to Brussels or Hasselt. I have received or had telephone contact with a number of mayors from that region, and they tell me that it is not possible for them to go to Hasselt or Brussels. Minister, what are the reasons for closing the Leuven office from 1 May 2015? Is there any intention to open a counter elsewhere in Flemish Brabant later? Is it being examined whether local authorities can be given the power to issue provisional identity documents in extreme need? This service does not now offer municipalities, but it could perhaps be organized locally, provided that a number of things are legally put in order.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic063x.u51	Thanks for asking. I would like to point out that, at the moment, we are investigating how we can speed up the delivery of a fully-fledged e-identity card. I believe that is the real answer to the question. At that time the issue can be made in the municipalities. I would like to make a particular effort on this. The procedure must be speeded up. I believe that with the present technological means we can make enormous progress in this area. In the meantime, the changes you mentioned are part of a reorganisation of the regional delegations. This reorganisation should make it possible to standardise and optimise services and processes in order to continue to ensure the provision of services to citizens in the strict budgetary framework. We must remember the phenomenon of regional delegations in order to find budgetary space. It was chosen to centralise the management of the services provided by delegations, with the majority of regional delegations continuing staff at the location of the delegation. You are right to point out that only the provinces of Luxembourg and Flemish Brabant will be adapted. As the Luxembourg delegation has been staffed with only one employee for a long time, it is impossible to guarantee a continuous service. For this reason, services will be integrated into the Namur delegation. The Flemish-Brabant delegation will be integrated into the Brussels-Capital and Walloon-Brabant delegations, already based in Brussels. The province of Flemish Brabant is actually a sausage around Brussels, the centre of which is probably in Brussels. If one had to go from Halle to Leuven, one would be on the road for a long time. That is why we chose Brussels. You will assume from me that it is a point of interest to me that Dutch-speaking and French-speaking staff are working here. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the provisional identity documents are emergency documents. It cannot be an option to allow the local authorities to issue it. We want to focus on delivering the real identity cards much faster. These cards increasingly provide access to all kinds of services and institutions. I am thinking, for example, of libraries or tax-on-webs. I believe that we should concentrate on delivering identity cards as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic063x.u52	Thank you for the answer. As you yourself proactively indicate, the faster and electronic delivery of identity cards is the solution of the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic063x.u53	Mr President, Minister, I have a question about the co-workers employed in the police zones. As you may know, the Flemish Government has abolished the statute of gesco. As of 1 April 2015, local authorities are to convert these contracts into ordinary contracts. That date is close. Although they do not make up the largest group, there are still a number of people employed by the CALog or civilian staff in the police zones. There is little information on this on the website of national government. What are the consequences for the police zones? Under current police legislation, unless I have it wrong, we must always apply for a statute if we are to remain within the establishment plan. Is there a problem with the police zones? Is there a legislative initiative to be taken before 1 April, or is it the intention that these 280 places, I do not know if you can confirm that figure, but would it be reported that 280 people are all legally filled out by the different police zones? This is a cost factor for these areas.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic063x.u54	Mr President, Mrs Gabriels, I am indeed aware of the problem. Many have already expressed their concerns in the direction of the cabinet, of course the staff involved themselves, but also the trade unions and the Permanent Committee of the Local Police, in cooperation with the Administrative and Technical Secretariat, which is in my cabinet. I would like to make it clear that I want to contribute to a legal solution in order to safeguard the employment of those concerned. If we have created this legal solution, it is up to the local authorities to take the decision to do so formally. We will therefore create a legal framework. An initial analysis shows that a legislative initiative is needed. I take this into account in the light of a forthcoming law. For the budget reviews, we will also have to draw up a law on various provisions. I would like to place that initiative in this context. Firstly, with the local authorities in Flanders, where the problem mainly arises, and with the Permanent Committee of the Local Police, I will carefully examine how we can best defend the interests of everyone and how this should be regulated by law. The intention is to get it settled in good time before 1 April.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic063x.u55	Mr President, can you confirm the figure of 280 people or do you not see it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic063x.u56	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic063x.u57	Debates of the European Parliament 1480 by Mr Blanchart is considered withdrawn since Mr Blanchart is not present and has not notified, in accordance with Rule 127/10 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic063x.u58	Mr President, I will be brief. Minister, I come back to the task force that you have already mentioned today. In December, you said that a working group - this task force - had been formed to define the key tasks mentioned in the government agreement. You mentioned the presence of representatives of the federal and local police forces as well as several specialists. You also mentioned a consultation with the VVSG and the Union of Cities and Municipalities - Walloon and Brussels. I am reminded that this task force would be devoid of representatives of Brussels' local police. It would appear that only the Vlaamse Kust, Comines-Warneton and Antwerpen area chiefs would represent the local police. As far as Brussels is concerned, a report would be made to the President of the Standing Committee on Local Police. Mr Minister, I am afraid that in the absence – but this may no longer be the case today – of representation of the capital, the specificities of Brussels are not taken into account. My questions are as follows. Has the working group already started its work? You answered that earlier. I think you said that a report was due by the end of February. Has its composition been changed in relation to the information obtained to date? Don't you think it would be necessary to have a greater representation of the local police in this working group?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic063x.u59	Mr President, dear colleague, as I said, the working group started its work on 18 December 2014. It meets regularly. As you have just mentioned, the aim is to have a first report by the end of February in order to be able to start consulting operations following it. The composition is distributed as follows: for the local police, MM. Dauchy, Paelinck and Hegge and for the Federal Police, Messrs. Veyt, Rompe and Mrs. Massei. The external specialists are Prof. From Ruyver of the University of Ghent, Prof. Bruggeman and Dr Stans from the University of Liège. SAT Justice and SAT Security and Home are also represented in this task force. The working group is chaired by the Security and Home Affairs firm. It is always difficult to find all the balance, so we have ensured that we represent the different components of the police so that this working group is balanced. This means that we have established a balanced representation between the local police and the federal police, between the French- and Dutch-speaking linguistic regimes, between the large and small areas. In addition, a representative of the Standing Committee on Local Police is present in this working group. I have not chosen the representative of the local police, it has been decided by the Standing Committee. I do not think there is a need to expand the membership of this working group, but after receiving the report, I will go around the table with the three associations of cities and municipalities. This is when the regional consultation will take place. The federal police and the local police have chosen their own representatives. The only distribution I wanted was French-speaking and Dutch-speaking.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic063x.u60	Minister, thank you. I wanted to convey to you this concern of the Conference of Mayors of the Brussels Region.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic063x.u61	Mr President, Minister, as you know, the 195 local police areas of the Kingdom are allocated the means available according to the KUL standard, which almost all local officials in this country have already requested the revision. Among the seventy-five criteria adopted for the establishment of this standard are the prison population of the area, in order to integrate the specific needs of the areas on whose territory a prison is located. However, it is not certain that the relative weight of this criterion reflects the amount of additional work required when they are required to carry out custodial duties in institutions, for example during social movements within them. Minister, can you tell us what the weight of this criterion is in the overall calculation of the standard of allocation of means? What is the amount of compensation per area concerned? How many additional police officers, per police area concerned, does this amount correspond to?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic063x.u62	Mr Delannois, for your information, the KUL standard is the result of a theoretical regression of the entire police force, communal police and territorial brigade of the former gendarmerie, which was active locally at the time of the reform of the police services, in 2001. It consisted of the allocation to each of the 589 communes in the country of their share of the workforce according to the values achieved by the fourteen socio-economic variables which had been retained in the formula which gave rise to the KUL standard. The prison capacity per thousand inhabitants is one of them. The values adopted for each municipality were then incorporated, by applying the weighting coefficients, into a formula which defined police capacity per thousand inhabitants. The honourable member will find attached the details of this standard. Besides, I brought the formula with me, which is clear – even if it is less so than that of Pythagoras! So I can provide it to you. If you can't sleep at night, I advise you to read it. To answer your questions in practice, the weight of the criterion on prison capacity is 8.7 per thousand inhabitants. If two municipalities have exactly the same value for all autonomous variables, with the exception of the prison capacity in the second municipality, the latter received an additional 8.7 staff per thousand inhabitants. With regard to the accounting of the prison population, however, a distinction had been drawn between detention centres and prisons. Residents of custodial homes who are by definition the subject of fewer transfers and extractions in contrast to accused persons, only 10 per cent of the prison population were counted in the formula to account for the difference between remand and remand homes in the definition of police capacity to implement. I cannot tell you how many full-time equivalents (FTEs) have been allocated to a police area because of the presence of a prison on its territory. Indeed, the variables were not isolated from each other in the calculation of the KUL standard; they were joined at the level of the police zone to deliver a single number of GTFs which was justified by all its own environmental criteria. In the absence of the ability to isolate the number of GTFs allocated to a police area due to the presence of a prison in its territory, it is also impossible for me to inform you of the exact amount of compensation awarded to the police areas concerned. However, as I indicated, the formula is at your disposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic063x.u63	Mr Minister, it is clear that this is not necessarily entirely clear! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic063x.u64	Mr President, Minister, this Friday, 19 December 2014, you will excuse my delay, but I chaired the Social Affairs Committee. I will be brief since you know the problem: the House of Plurielle in Charleroi, which supports women victims of violence, has filed an inquiry. There are many of these women: in the European Union, one in three women is the victim of domestic violence. As for Belgium, the average number of married homicides unfortunately stands at some 40 cases per year. The association's interventions are therefore frequent. They concern not only homicides, but also genital mutilation and, of course, intramarital assault and forced marriage. The panel is quite wide. Constant increases are noted for all these facts. The most deplorable is that zero tolerance for such violence against women is still not applicable despite Belgium's commitments on the international scene. The associations, including the Maison Multirielle, argue that beyond zero tolerance, measures of improvement could be taken at the level of justice – and I asked your colleague, Mr Geens – such as providing specific training to police officers who have to accommodate women victims of violence; this would be to create a pool of police officers trained in the issues of violence against women and to bring motivated police officers to deal with such cases. Such actions would be a good step towards more resolution of cases and respect for victims. In addition to the violence they suffered, they must undergo treatment that can be perceived as additional violence. Therefore, Minister, my questions are pragmatic. Have you ever thought about a concrete plan to train police officers on such sensitive issues? What do you think of specific training for the agents involved in hosting these women victims of violence? Would it not be appropriate to think of a specialized group of police officers for these cases?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic063x.u65	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, these three questions are indeed very concrete and I will also answer you very concretely. The basic training programme of the operational framework has been completely reformed to better meet the expectations and requirements of citizens and authorities. As part of this training, assistance and assistance to victims have been given an important place; training on the issue of violence against women has also been provided. Your second question is: for police personnel who are to receive these women, there are also ongoing trainings on victim assistance, specifically addressing the issue of domestic violence and sexual violence. These trainings are organized within the Federal Police. The areas themselves must request it, but training is planned, it is possible to participate. Your third question: Moreover, the function of police assistance to victims is a basic feature within the local police force and each police force has a specialized collaborator who advises and assists police officers in the performance of their duties and who can also assist and guide women who are the subject of violent acts.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic063x.u66	Thank you, Minister, for this very concrete answer. I could simply suggest that Mrs De Bolle warn all the zone chiefs that they suggest to some police officers to come and participate in these trainings. Maybe it wouldn't be a bad initiative. Thank you.
